

1001 of 1007 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1992,

SECTION: Section 4; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
. . . But in Ourselves

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The Federal budget deficit is now up to $400 billion a year, and effectively out of control. Practically everyone in Washington says that is a terrible thing, damaging to the economy, unfair to our children. But no one does anything about it. Why? Well think about the following small story.
In the 1990 budget agreement between Congress and the President, one small item called for Coast Guard "user fees" on recreational boats. The bill that was passed exempted boats up to 18 feet long. The owners of larger boats paid fees on a sliding scale up to $100 a year for the largest. 
 Boat owners were furious. They did not want to pay for the emergency services provided by the Coast Guard. They complained to their Congressmen.
Two weeks ago the House voted to repeal the boating fees. The provision was attached to a shipbuilding bill that passed by a vote of 339 to 78.
There, in miniature, is the reason why the budget is so grossly out of balance. The American people want government services, but we do not want to pay for them.
Indeed, it is more than wanting government benefits. We believe we are entitled to them. When someone tries to put realistic limits on them, we scream.
Here is another example, grotesque in its greed and folly.
Twenty-five years ago the Government began subsidizing insurance on houses built in dangerous waterfront areas. It did so because private insurance companies were reluctant to issue policies on homes that might be hit by hurricanes or might fall into the sea as the shorefront eroded.
Eventually someone woke up and asked why the rest of us should buy insurance for Americans who want to put houses in danger zones. Or why the Government should be encouraging construction in such fragile areas.
Legislation was introduced that would gradually reduce that Federal insurance subsidy over the coming years. It passed the House last year. But then the beach homeowners and real estate people woke up and screamed: You can't do this to us; it's unconstitutional. Whether the bill can pass the Senate is now uncertain.
The larger if less piquant examples are in the programs of benefits that go to people regardless of their need: Social Security, Medicare and the like. They are called entitlement programs, a name that accurately reflects what people feel about them.
A few years ago Congress passed legislation that made wealthier retirees pay more for Medicare benefits. The protest was so loud that the statute was quickly repealed. Even the idea of limiting cost-of-living increases in Social Security benefits arouses so-far-invincible opposition from the powerful elderly lobby.
The reason the Federal Government persistently spends more than it has, in short, is that we the people want it that way. We think we are constitutionally entitled to a free Federal lunch. We demand that our political leaders give us the benefits -- and then denounce them for not balancing the budget.
If the real source of the budget disaster lies in public desires and illusions, then the only hope of a cure is in leadership that will persuade us to limit our desires and shed our illusions. And there is no sign of that leadership.
Ross Perot gets cheers when he denounces the deficit. "We have got to get the debt under control," he said the other day. "Pay it down and pay it off."
The cheers are sincere, I have no doubt. But the question is whether Mr. Perot will tell the truth about the budget and keep them cheering.
The truth is not his empty talk about eliminating "waste." It is something like this: "We are going to have to tax Social Security payments to the well-to-do, and limit cost-of-living increases. We have to stop Federal aid to airports, including my own. We cannot build the space station. There can be no more Seawolf submarines. We have to put a big new tax on gasoline."
Commenting on the Perot phenomenon recently, The Economist of London said his supporters "seem to believe that the mess present leaders have made . . . has nothing to do with the self-interested actions of the voters themselves over the past few years."
Shakespeare said it first: "The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves . . ."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); MEDICARE (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); COST OF LIVING (77%); MARINE VESSELS (76%); BOATING & RAFTING (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); WEATHER (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (70%); SHIPBUILDING (68%); INSURANCE (65%); AGING (64%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (64%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY; PEROT, ROSS ROSS PEROT (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1992



1002 of 1007 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1992,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: Haiti's Junta Leader Talks of 'Right Path' Despite Signs of Upheaval in Army

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, May 30

 BODY:
Surrounded by seven of the highest-ranking officers of his staff, Brig. Gen. Raoul Cedras, leader of the coup that overthrew the Haitian Government in September, declares himself satisfied.
"We are on the right path," General Cedras, the commander of the Haitian Army, said in an interview Thursday, smiling faintly. "We are on the verge of applying an agreement between all the parties here. As soon as this accord is formalized, we will have a consensus government that will be acceptable for everyone concerned, including the international community." 
 Despite the general's air of self-confidence as he spoke outside his freshly remodeled headquarters, a white, columned building built during the American occupation early this century, foreign diplomats and Haitian analysts say that his military may be splintering and that his grip on the country has never been weaker.
A mile away, at this city's grimy port, Coast Guard cutters are returning Haitians who for weeks have been fleeing by the thousands. Within view across a broad avenue is Haiti's gleaming white National Palace, where the provisional Government General Cedras saw installed after his coup shows every sign of resisting public calls and army nudges that it step down.
 
Soldiers Are Killing Soldiers
 The accord and consensus government the general speaks of have elicited no interest from the exiled President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, or from many of the supporters who gave him a landslide victory in Haiti's first democratic elections, 17 months ago.
Most worrisome, diplomats say, is the rising disorder and division within the army. Nights here are frequently punctuated with bursts of automatic-weapons fire. By daylight, bullet-riddled bodies are routinely found around town. And now soldiers have begun killing soldiers in what many fear is the beginning of the unraveling of Haiti's 7,000-member military.
Some elements have begun proselytizing for Father Aristide's return. Others have gone on the radio to demand that the high command quit politics. While the outside world insists that Father Aristide must be part of the solution and must have the power to choose a Prime Minister, other army factions threaten to overthrow or kill the leadership if concessions are contemplated on either score, Haitian political experts said.
All has been complicated by the slow but steadily rising resistance of Father Aristide's supporters. In the aftermath of the violent army coup, there was virtually no resistance on behalf of Father Aristide, who had been a stirringly popular leader.
 
General Assails Aristide
 But in recent weeks, the army has been rattled by strikes and rising student demonstrations, the buzzing overflight of the capital and other cities by a small unmarked airplane carrying leaflets bearing Father Aristide's likeness, and private shortwave radio broadcasts from the United States that have encouraged resistance.
Despite statements to the contrary, all of that has made General Cedras a visibly bitter and somewhat insecure man.
Sitting ramrod straight in his office, lighting cigarettes frequently, or doodling with a red felt pen while he reflects on questions, he condemns the outside world for destroying his country, repeatedly catalogues what he says were Father Aristide's defects as President, and pleads for Haiti to be treated with the indulgence he says has been accorded Peru.
"People are just speculating," General Cedras said, explaining that the recent radio message condemning the high command was the work of imposters who had never been in the military. "There are no divisions in the army."
Told that a reporter had information that the soldiers on the air had deliberately used a pseudonym and carried a valid-looking military identification card, several of General Cedras's men quickly blurted out, "Help us find them, then."
 
Rebutting Rights Charges
 "We too have that information," General Cedras, 42 years old, said with a semblance of calm. "The people identified in those cards left the army in 1986."
In another brief revelation of anxiety, General Cedras and his officers inquired about newspaper reports that a team of Navy Seals entered the country secretly several weeks ago to rescue some of Father Aristide's advisers. Somehow, the reports had been distorted, and several asked about the justice of the United States' sending in a commando unit to "kidnap us and our children"
The general sought to rebut, one after another, widely accepted criticisms of the human-rights climate in the country, but frequently returned instead to Father Aristide's shortcomings.
"There is a certain propaganda which attempts to explain the boat people in terms of repression," he said. "Even your embassy has done its investigations, and said this is not true.
 
Shipments Elude Blockade
 "We know that there are priests who are organizing these voyages to embarrass us," he continued. "How else can you explain that a boat owner would accept only $20 per passenger?"
To General Cedras, the hemisphere-wide embargo imposed by the Organization of American States is the single greatest cause of suffering and turmoil in his country.
"They say they want to save the country, but they have proceeded by destroying it," he said of the O.A.S. measures. "A people has the sense of its own well-being. You cannot teach us what is good for us. Before imposing sanctions, why didn't they make an effort to understand the situation here?"
For all of the suffering the embargo has inflicted, the provisional Government has succeeded in obtaining shipments of oil and other necessities, allowing those with means to maintain their comfortable life styles.
On Friday, defying stronger measures introduced recently by the organization vowing to bar ships from ports throughout the hemisphere if they trade with Haiti, an oil tanker pulled into port with a critical shipment.
 
Defending Junta's Chief
 For the general, and many other Haitians in positions of affluence or influence, Father Aristide was a dangerous demagogue who threatened his critics with violence and was methodically working to destroy the country's newborn democratic institutions.
Seizing on recent comments at rallies in the United States in which Father Aristide reportedly said Haiti would "burn like Los Angeles" unless he returned, General Cedras said, "It is difficult to understand how a man who makes comments like that could not be expected to return here and not do even worse than he was doing before."
For all their skepticism over General Cedras's justifications, diplomats say a key stumbling block to any negotiated solution to Haiti's crisis remains Father Aristide's insistence that the army leader be removed.
Diplomats have long been at pains to defend General Cedras as the least distasteful senior figure in the rag-tag Haitian Army, even as the death tolls and refugee waves here have risen.
"If the army leadership were to suddenly get on a boat tomorrow, heaven help this country," said a foreign analyst who declined to be identified further. "There are more scores to be settled in this country than you could believe. And people wouldn't wait an instant before getting started."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Countries Ignore Haiti Embargo
 WASHINGTON, May 30 (AP) -- At least a dozen countries in Europe, South America and Africa have routinely ignored a trade embargo against Haiti, undermining efforts to weaken a military junta that has ruled the island since September, Federal documents say.
Ships have delivered steel and barbed wire from Belgium; beer, brewery machinery and tools from Germany; cognac, wine, perfume and cosmetics from France; chemicals from Argentina; steel from Brazil; tires and diesel engines from the neighboring Dominican Republic; steam boilers from Barbados, and consumer goods from the Netherlands Antilles, Venezuela and Britain.
The documents, assembled by Congress' General Accounting Office from the State and Treasury departments and from the American Embassy in Port-au-Prince, also detail the shipment of nearly a million barrels of petroleum to Haiti from France, Colombia, Portugal, Senegal and the Netherlands Antilles.
"As a consequence of so many leaks, the embargo has failed to achieve its objective of undermining the coup leadership," said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, who released the documents today.
Especially damaging, Senator Kennedy said, is the failure of the embargo on oil because it held the greatest promise of success in pressing Haiti's military leaders.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We are on the right path," said Brig. Gen. Raoul Cedras, commander of the Haitian Army, which overthrew the Government in September. (Howard W. French/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: AS SOON AS POSSIBLE INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; FREEDOM
AND HUMAN RIGHTS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); COUPS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); POLITICS (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W; CEDRAS, RAOUL (GEN); ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES) RAOUL CEDRAS (93%); JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1992



1003 of 1007 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1992,

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1688 words

HEADLINE: Guns and Drugs: Neighborhoods Caught In the Crossfire

BYLINE: By ANDI RIERDEN

 BODY:
LAST month, while standing in his kitchen putting away his groceries, Joseph Lowery of New Haven said he heard a loud thump on his front porch. Thinking that it might be his son, Keith, he opened the door. Instead he found 19-year-old Antoine Wright, prone on the porch landing and breathing heavily. "The boy looked up at me and said: "I've been shot and I'm dying," said Mr. Lowery, who lives in the Newhallville section of the city.
Moments earlier, Cliff Drye, a neighbor, was working on his car when he heard gunshots coming from a vacant lot nearby known as the Mudhole, a spot notorious for drug trafficking. Then he saw the young man run toward Mr. Lowery's house. 
 "The shots came from a semiautomatic," said Mr. Drye, who two years ago moved to Newhallville, where he said he has witnessed similar scenes. "Then we saw this guy run up Shelton Avenue to Ivy Street. He was holding his chest and looked like he was out of breath. He kept looking over his shoulder. Then there was a time lapse before several more shots were fired from about a block away. It sounded like they came from a six-shooter. Whoever was after the guy was determined to get him."
By the time the young man collapsed on the porch, a neighbor had already called the police. Within minutes, the man was taken by ambulance to St. Raphael's Hospital where he died two hours later.
Mr. Wright became New Haven's 10th homicide victim of the year.
 
Fear of the Stray Bullet
 For Mr. Lowery, a retired foreman of a local manufacturing company who has lived on Ivy Street since 1958, the shooting death of Antoine Wright served as another dismal reminder of how tenuous life has become in a once serene corner of the city.
Traumatized by the sounds of gunfire and the fear that they or members of their families may become victims of a stray bullet, residents of Newhallville and other sections of New Haven often liken their neighborhoods to war zones.
"Some days I feel like I'm living in Beirut," said Mr. Lowery, who added that he is often awakened in the early morning hours by gunfire. "God knows I would love to move to a place where I don't have to be subjected to this day in and day out."
According to records from the New Haven Police Department, police last year responded to an average of four gunfire incidents a day, a 49 percent increase over 1990. Of the 28 people killed by gunfire last year, the average age of the shooter was 20, the police said. Since January, the police have reported 421 gun-related incidents and 11 deaths.
 
Held Hostage at Home
 In recent interviews in the Newhallville, Hill and Fair Haven sections of the city, several residents spoke openly about the plight of their neighborhoods, yet some were reluctant to give their names for fear of reprisals from drug dealers.
All agreed that the proliferation of guns in the hands mostly of young people has created a dangerous atmosphere that has eroded their life style and stolen from them the things they once took granted. No longer do they sit on their porches, stroll through the streets or even open their front doors for fear of what might await them. And the residents say the situation is getting worse. "We've become a community under the gun," Mr. Drye said, "if you can ever call that a community."
Along with residents, business owners and those who own or manage rental properties in New Haven said they were also feeling the surge of violence. Miguel Pittman, the owner of Sandra's Soul Food restaurant on Congress Avenue, said his evening business had dropped substantially over the past two years because his local patrons are afraid of going out at night.
On Grand Avenue in Fair Haven, Vinnie Durso, who manages Palm Beach Pizza, said he has had to hire a security guard seven nights a week because his customers were wary of the drug and gun activity in the neighborhood.
He said that until recent years about 70 percent of his customers came from out of town. But with the reports of shootings in New Haven, suburban residents have steered clear of most parts of the city, and now the majority of his customers are local.
 
Drugs Sold Openly
 Longtime homeowners in the area have moved out of the neighborhood because of continual threats by drug dealers who openly sell drugs outside residents' homes, Mr. Durso said. The crime connected to the drug network, he added, is slowly destroying the Fair Haven community, which during the mid-80's was one of the hallmarks of the city's revitalization efforts. "In the last seven months there's been more shootings, stabbings and robberies around this area," he said. "And the papers don't report half of it."
Alice Coleman, who manages rental properties that house city welfare clients, said that when it came to drugs and guns no place was completely safe. "I get calls from prospective tenants who will say they don't want to live in a bad area," she said. "Well, I wish someone would show me a good area."
Ms. Coleman said she has seen instances where crack dealers and users have taken over entire neighborhoods, threatened residents with guns and vandalized houses by stealing refrigerators, stoves, hot water heaters and storm windows to sell so they could buy drugs. "If they find a vacant house they'll trash it," she said. "They'll put holes in the walls, bust out the windows; I've even seen where they've ripped the metal casings from doors."
 
'Infested With Crack'
 Once the dealers stake their claim to a territory, she said, they will warn residents not to stand on certain corners or walk into certain areas of the neighborhood unless they intend to buy drugs.
One of the properties Ms. Coleman managed was a multifamily house on Hulburt Street in the Hill section. Last month she said she was forced to relocate tenants because they were being threatened by armed crack dealers. "The whole neighborhood is infested with crack," she said. "And the residents who can get out are getting out."
The owner of the property, Robert Rosenberg of West Haven, said he had to board up the house because once crack dealers started moving in on a property it was eventually destroyed. Without the flow of rent money, he said, he doubts if he can support the property.
"I'm just a small guy who scraped together what I could to get into an investment," he said. "And because of this I could lose my shirt."
 
Police Presence Helps
 Over all, most residents say they support Police Chief Nicholas Pastore's community policing efforts and that the visibility of police on foot patrols in their neighborhoods curtailed some of their fears. Yet given the magnitude of the situation, they said the police alone could not carry the burden.
"The cops pick some guy up on a drug charge," said Mr. Durso, of Palm Beach Pizza. "He goes to prison and before you know it he's out again. That's nothing but revolving door justice."
Sgt. Douglas MacDonald, who supervises a community policing substation in Fair Haven, said that because of the increase of the number of officers assigned within city neighborhoods robberies have decreased to "two or three a day" from seven a day a year ago.
One reason the number of firearm discharges reported in New Haven has risen, he surmised, may be because residents sometimes mistake the backfiring of cars or the noise of fireworks for gunshots. Nevertheless, Sergeant MacDonald said, the economy and high dropout rate among high school students has pulled more young people into the drug trade and increased the number of gangs in Fair Haven like the Latin Kings, whose activities have been linked to the narcotics and firearms trade.
"They're our biggest concerns," he said.
 
Losing Touch
 For many, the gun violence in New Haven is part of a spiral of problems that has contributed to the current atmosphere in urban neighborhoods. Residents most frequently cited the lack of strong gun-control laws and the negative impact of television programs and films that depict violence.
Joseph Pagliaro, the owner of Grand Paint store in Fair Haven, said too many politicians were out of touch with the cities, which has helped to precipitate gun violence and other burdens like the rise in welfare rolls, the high dropout rate among high school students and teen-age pregnancy.
"No one seems to be looking at the bigger picture," said Mr. Pagliaro, who like many owners of storefront businesses in the city has had his front windows riddled by bullets. "No one wants to get to the root of why we have young kids running around with loaded guns in the first place."
 
Children With Guns
 Many residents and business owners said that drastic measures were needed to end the drug war and its violent side effects. "There's only two ways to deal with drugs and crime," said Mr. Rosenberg of West Haven. "You either legalize the stuff and give the state the power to tax it, or you go into those areas controlled by drug dealers with a machine gun. Because we've tried everything and nothing seems to be working."
Though there is no way of knowing just how many illegal guns are in New Haven neighborhoods, residents said that as a result of their availability it appeared that more and more firearms are falling into the hands of children. Mr. Drye recalled walking across the grounds of Lincoln Bassett Elementary School recently and coming across a boy about 10 years old who was carrying a 9-millimeter semiautomatic weapon. He said he overheard the youngster threaten to use it on another boy, but by the time Mr. Drye had summoned police the child was gone.
"You've got a lot of kids out there whose parents are on drugs and their home life is a mess," he said. "They're already off the handle. Then if they get hold of a gun on top of it, there's no telling what they'll do."
Mr. Drye, for one, said he was not taking any chances and had recently bought a scanner to pick up police activities so he would know what areas of the city to avoid.
"All I can say is this drug and gun thing has got to stop," he said. "It's turned into a cancer that's gotten way out of control."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); LEBANON (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW HAVEN (CONN) UNITED STATES (91%); LEBANON (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; FIREARMS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SHOOTINGS SHOOTINGS (90%); FIREARMS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); TRENDS (76%); POLICE FORCES (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (69%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); HOMICIDE (69%); INTERVIEWS (60%); HOSTAGE TAKING (60%); 

PERSON: RIERDEN, ANDI JOSEPH LOWERY (82%); ANTOINE WRIGHT (63%); CLIFF DRYE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1992



1004 of 1007 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1992,

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 6; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: St. Augustine's Reaches Centennial

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

DATELINE: LARCHMONT

 BODY:
"THERE are older Catholic churches in Westchester, but we feel what is especially interesting about our church is that its history and progress is closely intertwined with the development of Larchmont," said Msgr. Walter F. Kenny, the pastor of St. Augustine's Roman Catholic Church here.
The church commemorated its 100th anniversary last Sunday with a Mass said by John Cardinal O'Connor, Archbishop of New York. 
 "We invited all our former parishioners and neighbors to join us in all of the events we have scheduled during our centennial year," Monsignor Kenny said. "The unusual ecumenical manner in which St. Augustine's was founded set the tone that exists to this day in Larchmont." He noted that members of the clergy from non-Catholic congregations participated in Sunday's celebration.
In 1892, when the original St. Augustine's Church was built in Larchmont, the village was still a summer resort. The large hotels and almost all of the spacious "cottages" bordering Long Island Sound were occupied only during the summer months.
The Catholics in the area, who with a few exceptions were chiefly Irish immigrant domestic servants and hotel workers, traveled by horse and carriage to Blessed Sacrament Parish in New Rochelle or Holy Trinity in Mamaroneck to attend Sunday Mass.
Joseph G. E. Hopkins, a retired editor who was in charge of history books for the publishing house of Charles Scribner's Sons in Manhattan and who now serves as St. Augustine's volunteer historian, the decision made 100 years ago to incorporate a new Catholic parish in Larchmont was speeded up by a practical consideration.
 
Church Fund Drive Begun
 "The Larchmont Manor Company, which had been responsible for the founding and development of the area, had offered to donate a plot of land for the site of the church whenever any Catholic congregation was properly organized to accept it," Mr. Hopkins said. "In 1891, when Larchmont became an incorporated village, the Manor Company decided to dissolve and distribute its remaining assets among its stockholders, which meant that the potential gift, the site for the Catholic church, would be lost unless local Catholics could quickly form a corporation to receive it."
A drive, spearheaded by Augustine Adams, the Catholic wife of Oliver Adams, an English investment banker and a Protestant summering in Larchmont, and aided by Lizzie Flint, the wife of Frederick W. Flint, an affluent businessman, was successful in raising money to build the church.
"And the Manor Company kept its promise," Mr. Hopkins said. "Before it dissolved, it granted the title to the entire block fronting on Beach Avenue between Walnut and Linden to Mr. F. W. Flint for a nominal consideration. He, in turn, transferred the title to the new parish corporation as soon as it had legal existence."
It should be noted, Mr. Hopkins said, that half the money for the church, which came to $5,000, was contributed by non-Catholics, among them Mr. Flint and Mr. Adams, who also served as treasurer of the building fund. In addition, the architect, E. H. Kendall, a non-Catholic, donated his services.
 
First Mass in Village Hall
 The first Mass in the new parish was celebrated on May 22, 1892, at a temporary altar in the old Village Hall at Circle and Maple Avenues. The old Village Hall was later demolished, and a house was built on the lot. On Aug. 21, 1892, the first Larchmont church of St. Augustine's, at 49 Beach Avenue, was formally dedicated.
"It was built to serve what was then a summer population of about 250 Catholics, mostly of Irish descent," said Mary McGahan, the secretary of the Larchmont Historical Society and an active church volunteer.
"Everyone, maid and mistress, went to the same Mass," Mrs. McGahan said. "Mrs. Adams, Mrs. Flint and their servants sat with the hotel workers."
The church also became an added draw for attracting non-Catholic summer people to Larchmont, she said. "They needed a church to send their servants to Mass on Sunday, and since this one was so close by it cut down on travel time. Affluent Catholic families were also attracted by the existence of the church and began coming to Larchmont in greater numbers."
What was unusual at the time, said Monsignor Kenny, who came to Larchmont six years ago, is that the church was built both with the cooperation and the acceptance of the community.
"That sentiment was certainly not universal," he said. "There was still a strong anti-immigrant feeling in neighboring communities. For example, when Blessed Sacrament was built in New Rochelle, it was not readily accepted by the general population. That church opened in a much more hostile environment."
 
Catholic Population Expands
 The original St. Augustine's Church still exists as a private home. The parish continued to grow as Larchmont became a year-round suburb of New York City. It grew to the extent that a second parish was established and its church, SS. John and Paul on Weaver Street, was built in the 1950's.
"But by 1912, there were enough Catholic families in Larchmont to build a parochial school on Larchmont Avenue," Mr. Hopkins said. "And a private academy on Monroe Avenue was operating until 1950. The Catholic population in Larchmont had grown far beyond the capacity of the original church, and in 1928 a new church, the one we still use to this day, was completed on Larchmont and Cherry Avenues. A larger, new school was also built in 1941, and in the 60's, an annex was added to keep up with the baby boom."
But by 1976, the diminishing number of students and the diminishing number of teaching nuns made the school no longer economically feasible, Monsignor Kenny said.
"However, we still use it for religious-education classes, and we rent classrooms to the French-American School of New York," he said. "And that in turn has attracted French families to Larchmont, so once again St. Augustine's is the spiritual home for newcomers. The French have their own First Communion and their own confirmation ceremonies, which are held in French, at the church."
Masses are also offered in French, with a French priest from Vincent de Paul Parish in Manhattan officiating.
The newly arrived immigrants of this generation are au pairs who work for Larchmont families. For them, the monsignor said, Masses are periodically celebrated at St. Augustine's in Spanish.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Cardinal O'Connor, right, the Archbishop of New York, during ceremonies marking 100th anniversary of St. Augustine's Roman Catholic Church last Sunday in Larchmont. (Armen Kachaturian for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; ST AUGUSTINE'S ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH (LARCHMONT, NY) LARCHMONT MANOR CO (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; ST AUGUSTINE'S ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH (LARCHMONT, NY)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LARCHMONT (NY) UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (97%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (94%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); HISTORY (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); RESORTS (69%); HOTEL STAFF (67%); PUBLISHING (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY CARDINAL JOHN O'CONNOR (57%); CHARLES SCRIBNER JR (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1992



1005 of 1007 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1992,

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 1; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1741 words

HEADLINE: Young People Face Toughest Summer To Find Jobs

BYLINE: By LINDA SASLOW

 BODY:
INGRID TOMITZ, 18 years old, and her brother Rich, 20, students at the State University at Binghamton, returned home to Roslyn and began looking for full-time summer jobs.
Their efforts have been futile, Miss Tomitz said. Last summer, she worked at the Gap in Manhasset, but when the store cut her weekly hours to 12, she realized that she had to look elsewhere. 
 "When I was home during Easter break," Miss Tomitz said, "I sent letters around to several hospitals and businesses looking for any full-time office position. But they're not even interviewing. They all say that because of budget cuts, they're not hiring.
"My brother's been going around to country clubs, willing to do anything. All the kids are getting down to that, willing to do anything just to get a job. The only ones who seem to be getting jobs are those with a connection."
 
Call of the Outdoors
 For Matt Gruburger of Syosset, who just completed his first year at Miami University in Ohio, a priority for a summer job was working outdoors. The absence of decent-paying employment on the Island prompted his decision to return to sleep-away camp, he said, where his earnings as a counselor will cover his spending money at college.
"Most of my friends have settled on summer jobs that were not what they wanted," he said. "They've taken anything they could find just to have a way to make money."
One friend, David Pirrello of Woodbury, had planned to spend the summer working near the University of Rhode Island, where he just finished his first year. When a counselor's job recently opened at a day camp in Roslyn, he decided to return to Long Island for the summer, he said, adding that he is looking for a temporary job until the camp season begins.
"There's nothing here," he said. "I've driven up and down Jericho Turnpike and Woodbury Road looking for help-wanted signs. People say that if something comes up, they'll call. But there's nothing available."
Long Island college students, home for the summer and looking for work, have found that unlike several years ago, when there were many more jobs than applicants, the job pool this year is much smaller. Most of the available positions have been filled by employees returning from last summer or by adults also desperate for work.
 
Effects of Scaling Down
 Suffolk County Planning Director Arthur Kunz said that huge budget cuts had reduced the number of temporary and seasonal jobs usually available in government agencies and that many private companies were also scaling down.
"College students this summer are competing against college graduates who can't find permanent jobs and against schoolteachers who need extra money," Mr. Kunz said. "Some of the kids who can afford not to work are going to summer school to pick up extra credits or they are doing volunteer work, which is good on their resumes for their future."
Of the students who have found jobs, many have taken second- or third-choice positions with lower salaries and fewer hours. Others have chosen to leave Long Island for the summer, finding jobs at camps, at mountain resorts, in travel programs or in their college towns.
Resorts in the Catskills and Adirondacks provide summer recreational activities, Mr. Kunz noted, adding that the sparse population in those areas contributed to more job opportunities for downstate students.
 
Even an Auctioneer Suffers
 Jennifer Byalick of Roslyn, who just graduated from Colgate University, found a monthlong job as a residential adviser on a cross-country teen-age tour.
"But that's only for July," she said. "My prospects for getting a job on the Island are dim. I called the restaurant where I used to work, but business is down, and they're not hiring. I tried another former employer, an auctioneer, and even with all the liquidations and bankruptcies, their business is also down, and there are no jobs."
Most of her friends on the Island feel a similar frustration, Miss Byalick said.
The situation for college students this summer is worse than ever, said Supervisor Bruce Nyman of Long Beach.
 
'It Has Affected the Kids the Most'
 "The elimination of government-sponsored summer positions," he said, "has hit everybody -- college students, younger students and adults. But it has affected kids the most. In my office, I would normally hire half a dozen kids this summer, but this year I can't. Even my part-time people are gone."
On the beaches in Long Beach, there are no positions for new applicants, Mr. Nyman said. "Kids are scrambling," he said. "They're out in the streets, doing whatever they can to find jobs."
Traditionally, the Island's beaches and parks provide the largest number of summer jobs for college students. But this summer, the number of positions has diminished, and most jobs have been filled by former employees, who have the first option of returning.
At the 19 state parks, 1,700 seasonal employees have been hired, including 775 at Jones Beach and 205 at Robert Moses, the two largest state parks. The number of summer jobs remains about the same as last year, said the director of the Long Island region of the state's parks, Ron Foley. .
There were more new applicants this year, Mr. Foley said, but also a higher percentage of returnees than in past summers. The seasonal work force is usually mostly college and high school students, he explained, adding:
"But this summer there are more college graduates who, under better circumstances, would have gone on to find permanent jobs. They can't find jobs and are coming back to work at the beaches. This is not good news for new applicants."
 
Austerity Program in Hempstead
 Hiring for summer jobs in the Town of Hempstead and Nassau County is limited. Hempstead is on an austerity program, and since September has had a hiring freeze on full-time employees, leaving the number of summer jobs still uncertain, said a spokesman for the town, Mike McConnell.
Last summer, the town provided 1,025 summer jobs, including 450 lifeguards and 425 other seasonal employees at its 23 pools and 10 beaches, and an additional 150 positions elsewhere. For this summer, the number of lifeguards is expected to remain about the same, but that is the only guarantee in summer employment, Mr. McConnell said.
Nassau provided 600 seasonal jobs last year, but that number is expected to be halved, said a spokesman, Dave Vieser.
In Suffolk County, the outlook for summer jobs seems less gloomy. Summer jobs at county parks will be cut, from 244 to 220, but the Commissioner of Parks, Recreation and Conservation, Edward Wankel, said there were not as many applicants as expected.
"Ironically, in the past we've had a greater inundation of applications," he said. "There have even been a fair amount of refusals, especially in eastern Suffolk, where if the kids don't like the job location, if it's too far from their home and they can't get transportation, they turn it down."
 
Southampton Cutbacks Minor
 In the Town of Southampton there have been minor cutbacks, but nothing serious, said the Commissioner of Parks and Recreation, Alan Jackson. There are about 120 summer positions for lifeguards, maintenance workers and beach attendants, he said, and most have been filled by returning college students.
"But we were surprised that we did not have an exorbitant number of applications this year," Mr. Jackson said. "We can't quite figure it out."
For jobs in retailing, too, the outlook for summer employment is not bright. Many companies are becoming smaller, and there is less opportunity for part-time or temporary workers, said the Suffolk County Labor Commissioner, Michael Falcone.
"There are some jobs out there," he said, "but adults who would never before have taken them are now grabbing them. There's very little left for kids to pick from. It's not a good picture for our young people, and we're not yet seeing any signs of things turning around."
In Nassau, a new program will provide jobs for 144 high school and college students. The Summer Jobs Partnership for Nassau Youth '92 is an experiment in which companies pledge summer jobs to students between the ages of 16 and 21. The program is sponsored by the County Youth Board and Job Development Center.
The coordinator of employment for the youth board, Vincent Roccaro, said:
"We knew that with budget cutbacks and the elimination of county jobs, we'd have a serious problem this summer, and we needed to do something to involve the private sector. Our only hope was to get corporate sponsors in order to find jobs for kids in the county who need to work."
 
144 Jobs Pledged
 The initial recruitment resulted in 90 jobs at Friendly's, Fortunoff's, Geico, Kentucky Fried Chicken, the Long Island Marriott, New York Telephone and Waldbaum's. In the last month, other companies have pledged jobs, putting the total at 144.
"We still have many more kids than jobs," Mr. Roccaro said. "After the first day the program was advertised, we received more than 600 phone calls from students."
The summer jobs, scheduled to begin between this week and July 1, include positions in food service, retailing, warehouses, clerking and hotels. The salaries range from $4.25 to $8 an hour.
"It's still a pilot project," Mr. Roccaro said. "But if it works, our goal next year is to bring in 1,000 jobs."
Programs for poor youths have allocated summer jobs for students in both counties. In Nassau, a summer program through the Town of Hempstead will provide jobs for 410 high school students 16 to 21 years old. They will earn $4.25 an hour working at jobs like library aides and custodians. The program is financed through the Federal Labor Department under the Job Training Partnership Act.
Last month, at a Job Fair in the Union Baptist Church in Hempstead, in cooperation with the Hempstead Chamber of Commerce, 75 jobs, including 40 at the new Village Cinema Multiplex, were made available to eligible students.
In Suffolk, an Interior Department program will provide jobs, beginning the first week of July, for 800 to 1,000 youths younger than 21. The students will be assigned to cleanups , minor repairs and maintenance at a salary of $4.50 an hour.
"It's tough for some of the kids who are not categorized as economically disadvantaged and who can't find jobs to understand why there are no programs for them," Mr. Falcone said. "But that's just the way it is."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Arthur Kunz, Suffolk County Planning Director. (Michael Shavel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; HIRING AND PROMOTION; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; YOUTH, EMPLOYMENT OF EMPLOYMENT (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); SEASONAL WORKERS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); YOUTH MARKET (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (73%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (72%); COUNTIES (69%); ISLANDS & REEFS (66%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (61%); 

PERSON: SASLOW, LINDA; KUNZ, ARTHUR (DIR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1992



1006 of 1007 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1992,

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: New Rochelle Seeks Macy's Successor

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE

 BODY:
WHEN R. H. Macy & Company announced recently that it would close eight of its stores -- among them the one shoppers have frequented here for 25 years -- city leaders said the question was not so much, "Why us?" but rather, "Where do we go from here?"
"To tell you the truth, we had a feeling it was coming," said Mayor Timothy C. Idoni. "But the news caught us off guard. I guess we didn't think it would happen so soon." 
 While the Mayor acknowledged that the announcement this month represented a setback for his city, he also said, "It clearly isn't a death knell for us."
"In some ways, it may present an opportunity," Mr. Idoni said.
In a community that has seen Arnold Constable and Bloomingdale's leave town and is now facing the departure of a third major department store, leaders agreed that the time had come to take a different tack. But they added that even though some indicators, especially weakness in the retail sector, suggested that the city was in a period of decline, that was not necessarily so. They said that the move by upscale department stores to regional shopping centers to the north only temporarily threatened the economic vitality of cities in the south.
Joseph G. Madonna, the city's Commissioner of Development, said New Rochelle was negotiating with other concerns -- among them the Lillian Vernon Company, a mail order catalogue business, and the United Nations Children's Fund -- to locate their headquarters in the city's main business district. Westchester is also planning to locate some county offices in the downtown area here.
"Southern Westchester is still a hot item," Mr. Madonna said. "Because of our proximity to Manhattan and the Bronx and access to major highways, there's great growth potential here. And I'm not talking about pipe dreams."
If new businesses move in, Mr. Madonna said, retailers could look forward to more shopping activity, especially between 11 A.M. and 2 P.M., when those new workers take their lunch breaks.
Nevertheless, the news that Macy's would leave this summer means that at least in the short run, "we are going to be hurting," Mr. Idoni said.
The Macy's store here, which is in the Mall at New Rochelle and employs 470 people, is to be closed Aug. 1 as part of the chain's bankruptcy reorganization plan.
Michael Freitag, a Macy's spokesman, called the branch here "an underperformer" that did not appear to have much potential. He said profitability, productivity, sales trends, growth potential and the need for capital improvement were the criteria used to decide which stores to close.
 
Seventh-Largest Taxpayer
 Macy's had been the seventh-largest taxpayer in the city. The Mayor estimated that the store generated about $450,000 in sales tax for the city and another $100,000 from the parking spaces in the adjacent garage. The store was scheduled to pay $211,992 in city, county, sewer and garbage taxes for 1992 and $223,626 in school district taxes. New Rochelle's annual budget is $57 million, Mr. Idoni said. Consolidated Edison and New York Telephone are the city's largest taxpayers.
The store, however, is delinquent in its taxes, owing the school district and the city for the first half of the year $238,695.51, which also includes late charges and interest payments, said Patricia Glynn, the city's revenue supervisor.
In addition to the loss of tax revenue for the city, Macy's impending departure threatens the economic well-being of the other stores in the Mall. Merchants there, already struggling to weather the recession, said they depended on the department store, the Mall's only anchor, to draw customers to the shopping center.
"I'm very worried," said John Asmeilztah, manager of Something Wonderful, an art store in the Mall. "Business has not been good to begin with, and now this news."
 
Potential Tenants Being Sought
 Mr. Asmeilztah estimated that 80 percent of the shoppers visiting the shopping center did so because of Macy's.
The Mayor and leaders of the city's business community, upon learning of Macy's decision, immediately began contacting potential tenants for the 225,000-square-foot building, which is owned by Macy's.
"Just because this store made a corporate decision to close its doors doesn't mean a different retailer with different marketing and demographic needs wouldn't see an opportunity here," the Mayor said.
"We need to find a retailer that will appeal to the many working-class people who don't want the expensive stores, who are looking for decent clothing at decent prices. We have the market," Mr. Idoni said. "We just have to find the match."
 
A Discount Retailer Eyed
 Both Mr. Idoni and Robert J. Streger, president of the city's 700-member Chamber of Commerce, said they believed a discount retailer, such as Kmart, would thrive in New Rochelle.
"We're not looking for a Bloomingdale's or a Neiman Marcus," the Mayor said. "Those kinds of upscale retailers aren't moving here anymore."
Bloomingdale's and Arnold Constable, which were both on Main Street, closed shop here in the late 1970's. Macy's, which Mr. Freitag described as "a middle- to upper-middle-market retailer," has been in the Mall since 1967.
Mr. Streger, who called Macy's decision to leave the city "the final blow," said that as other cities -- White Plains and Stamford, for example -- became meccas for regional shopping centers, many customers who used to shop in New Rochelle have likewise gone elsewhere.
 
Going to Shop Elsewhere
 Janis McMullen, a Pelham resident who was shopping in the Mall on Memorial Day, said she would not miss the Macy's here. "Most of the time I go to White Plains anyway," she said. "That store is bigger and better."
Mrs. McMullen said she usually combined her shopping trips to the Macy's in White Plains with visits to the Galleria Mall in that city.
Another shopper, Virginia McCrary of Mount Vernon, who has been coming to the Mall here since it opened, said that although she was saddened by the impending Macy's departure she would have no choice but to shop elsewhere after Aug. 1.
But rather than go to White Plains or New York City, Mrs. McCrary said, she would shop out of state "where the taxes on clothes are lower or you don't have to pay them at all."
Looking back over the years at the economic trends that have affected New Rochelle, Mr. Streger -- who was born here and is now a co-owner of an insurance business his father founded in 1923 -- said he "has been around long enough to have seen it all."
After World War II, Mr. Streger recalled, there was a strong upsurge in building and business activity in the city, which has a population of 67,265 in a 10-square-mile area, is situated north of the Bronx and south of Scarsdale and has a stop on the Metro-North and Amtrak line.
 
Still Looking for a Niche
 Only in recent years, beginning with the departure of the major department stores, has New Rochelle seen a decline in retail trade, the chamber president said.
Mr. Streger called New Rochelle a place that "has yet to find its niche." He described the city -- whose roots go back to 1688 when it was settled by French Huguenots -- as "racially and ethnically mixed today" and representative of a broad spectrum of income levels.
There are high-priced homes on the northern boundaries of the city that abut Scarsdale and Larchmont and high- and middle-income homes and apartments to the west along the Long Island Sound shoreline and to the east near the Eastchester border. Most of the low- and moderate-income homes and apartments are in the center of the city and along the west end.
Mr. Idoni, in describing the city, called it "the classic example of Main Street U.S.A."
 
City Has Been 'Pushed Aside'
 "What has happened here," the Mayor said, "is that our city has been pushed aside by the urban and suburban shopping malls. The question now is whether there is still room in this world for a Main Street U.S.A."
He said he has been phoning many retailers, including Kmart, arranging meetings and hoping that a new retailer will step in quickly to fill the gap that Macy's leaves behind.
"Actually," he said, "we have been talking to retailers for six to eight months. In the last week, we have just stepped up the process."
The worst-case scenario, Mr. Idoni said, would be that the building, now occupied by Macy's, would remain vacant.
But that is not likely, said Mr. Freitag, the Macy's spokesman. "It wouldn't be in anyone's best interest for that to happen. Not ours and not New Rochelle's."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The 25-year-old Macy's store in the Mall at New Rochelle is one of the eight stores the company plans to close this summer. (David LaBianca for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MACY, R H, & CO INC MACY'S INC (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: MACY, R H, & CO INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW ROCHELLE (NY) UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); MAYORS (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA; IDONI, TIMOTHY C (MAYOR) LILLIAN VERNON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1992



1007 of 1007 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 31, 1992,

SECTION: Section 2; Page 30; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: ARCHITECTURE VIEW;
How to Avoid Just Another Suburb With Palm Trees

BYLINE: By Witold Rybczynski; Witold Rybczynski teaches architecture at McGill University.

DATELINE: VERO BEACH, Fla.

 BODY:
A new type of town has sprung up along the Eastern seaboard, from southern Florida to Virginia: the planned community. Planned communities are not real towns, of course, since they consist chiefly of second homes built by a single developer and are restricted to the seasonally mobile, but, like the spa towns of Bath or Marienbad, they nevertheless exhibit urban form. Despite their evocative names -- they are inevitably Islands, Harbors, Clubs and Plantations -- planned communities are usually indiscriminate collections of rambling houses, set far apart on large lots, joined by miles of curving streets: suburbs with palm trees.
Windsor, in Vero Beach, is a closely watched project that is trying to break the suburban mold of the planned community. Designed in 1989 and now under construction, Windsor lies between the Atlantic Ocean and the Indian River and provides the usual leisure facilities associated with planned communities: golf course, club house, tennis courts, riding trails, access to the beach. What makes Windsor unusual is that, while the houses are large, the lots are small. The typical Windsor lot is about one third the customary half acre, and most of the 300 lots on the 416-acre site are grouped close together, not scattered among the fairways. 
 The housing density at Windsor is two or three times that of most planned communities. This is not a question of land economics; the lot prices are comparable to those of other high-end planned communities. But Windsor will be markedly different: a compact village rather than a spread-out suburb. Instead of depending on cars, the residents will be able to walk -- to the clubhouse, to the tennis courts, to the village center. No house will be more than a five-minute stroll from the village center containing the post office, general store, cafe and restaurant.
The idea that people might enjoy walking is revolutionary, since virtually all residential planning today, whether of suburbs or leisure communities, assumes the primacy of the automobile. That is one reason why people don't walk -- the typical broad, straight, rapidly trafficked street makes the pedestrian feel about as welcome as a bicyclist on a freeway. At Windsor, the car is accommodated, not hidden, but it is not allowed to dictate. The streets, which in some cases are gravel, are designed for slow driving. They are narrow (some lanes as narrow as 28 feet), turns are tight, and the heavy, tyrannical hand of the traffic engineer is nowhere in evidence.
The compact layout of Windsor, which is the work of the planning team of Andres Duany and Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, takes its cue from Florida towns like St. Augustine, whose old Spanish quarter is characterized by narrow streets and lanes, bordered by houses and garden walls that are built right up to the sidewalks. Another evident influence is the so-called villages that George Merrick built in the 1920's in Coral Gables. There are several of these in different architectural styles: French Provincial, Norman, Cape Dutch and, surprisingly, Chinese. In all these villages, front and side lawns are done away with and replaced by walled gardens.
Court-garden houses, common enough in other parts of the world, never really caught on in the United States, where people have preferred sprawling ranch houses and free-standing cottages. Nevertheless, the several houses that have been completed at Windsor, which include both court-garden houses and versions of the Charleston house, with its enclosed side yards, suggest that the walled garden has distinct advantages today. It allows a large house to be built on a small plot; all the unbuilt area is concentrated in a private, secure, walled garden; and the fact that houses and garden walls must be built on the property line defines the street in a distinct and intimate way, making walking a pleasurable rather than a functional act.
The architecture of planned leisure communities, as of most American residential developments, is decidedly conservative, and here, at least, Windsor does not depart from the norm. There are small-paned windows, sloping roofs and wooden balustrades. In addition, there are shutters, jalousies, deep verandas, long balconies, loggias, and wide, overhanging eves -- all features associated with the indigenous domestic architecture of the American South and the Caribbean. This is no accident. Architects building at Windsor are required to follow a design code that strictly controls, in great detail, various aspects of house design, from shape and window proportions to materials and colors.
Most planned communities promote a single architectural style -- ersatz Georgian or fake Spanish Colonial. The aim here is different. Visual harmony, not stylistic uniformity, is the goal, and what will tie the different houses together is their common use of traditional, regional architectural elements. The design code is obviously intended to preclude architectural posturing, and its application has produced houses that, like the street spaces themselves, are distinctly old-fashioned in appearance. One side-yard house, designed by James E. Gibson, could have been transplanted from Charleston; another, designed by Clemens Bruns Schaub, is vaguely Caribbean. Scott Merrill has built a severe version of the side-yard house that relies on proportion and shape for its effect; on the other hand, three exquisite row houses, also designed by Mr. Merrill, are a tropical version of the British Arts and Crafts movement. Even a celebrated practitioner like Hugh Newell Jacobsen, known for his modernist designs, has come to terms with the design code and produced a handsome classical villa that is both striking on the inside and quietly restrained toward the street.
Critics of design codes have complained that they curtail architectural creativity and produce monotonous environments. The results at Windsor so far suggest the opposite. There is originality, diversity and a refreshing lack of pretense. The only danger is that the place may suffer a surfeit of good taste; so far, it is too early to tell.
The driving force behind Windsor is Galen Weston, chairman and president of a Toronto-based food and retail conglomerate with North American revenues last year of more than $10 billion. With his support and personal involvement, it seems likely that Windsor will unfold according to plan, without the compromises and cutbacks that plague most pioneering projects of this sort. If it is a commercial success, Windsor will undoubtedly influence the design of other planned communities, as developers realize that compact layouts are both economical and marketable.
Whether this luxury development will have broader repercussions remains to be seen. It would be a shame if planners and architects did not look beyond the price tag. For there is nothing intrinsically expensive about small lots, compact planning and good, traditional building design -- quite the opposite, and many of the lessons that will be learned at Windsor could and should be applied in more modest surroundings. Trickle-down is an unpopular notion today, but in this case, it might just work.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two of Windsor's first row houses, designed by Scott Merrill -- A tropical version of the British Arts and Crafts movement. (Thomas Delbeck)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: ST AUGUSTINE RECORD (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VERO BEACH (FLA) UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); SUBURBS (89%); RESTAURANTS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (88%); GOLF (77%); BEACHES (76%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (64%); 

PERSON: RYBCZYNSKI, WITOLD

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1992

 
