

201 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Criticism Grows as Check-Cashing Stores Expand Services in Poorer Areas

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
Behind bulletproof glass, a smiling teller at a RiteCheck store in the South Bronx waited patiently for customers to hand over their checks. For every $100 cashed, she collected a $1.91 service fee.
Bills to pay? She handled that, too, for $1 per bill.
''Anything else, honey?'' she asked one of her regulars. ''O.K., have a nice day.'' 
Many of New York City's poorest residents do not have bank accounts, so these window transactions, repeated hundreds of times every day, are their primary contact with the financial system. Check cashers are as familiar to them as corner bodegas, and as reliable.
But an industry built on mutual convenience has come under increased scrutiny over the past decade as its stores have continued to become full financial centers, improving services like electronic bill payment, wire transfers and prepaid debit cards.
The expansion has spurred renewed criticism from advocates for poor residents and from bank officials, who say the check-cashing industry takes advantage of those who have no other options, and it has prompted more calls for consumer protections. Many of the industry's leaders say that they have been unfairly tarnished, that they provide needed services and that they are making improvements to their operations.
This month, for example, RiteCheck, a chain of 12 stores in the Bronx and Harlem, will begin giving customers an easier option of saving all or part of their cash payouts in a free account at the Bethex Federal Credit Union in the Bronx. Joseph Coleman, president of RiteCheck, acknowledged that he hoped the new savings option would help his industry's reputation. But he also emphasized that RiteCheck was not making any additional money. Instead, he described it as another benefit for the more than 30,000 customers the business sees a month -- like a loyalty program that rewards frequent users with cash bonuses or electronics.
''If you can't keep a pile of money sitting in a bank, you need an alternative,'' Mr. Coleman said. ''Here, you can come in and drop $20 in the morning, and come back in the afternoon and take it back because you realize you need it.''
Jonathan Zinman, an associate professor of economics at Dartmouth College who worked with RiteCheck on the new service, said it was important to understand the role of these stores in areas like the South Bronx.
''Reputation aside, check cashers are where the money is,'' Professor Zinman said. ''The basic idea is to meet people where they're at, and give them an opportunity to save on impulse at a time when they're liquid.''
But the check cashers' emphasis on savings has elicited skepticism from critics, who say the service would make poor people even more dependent on the stores. ''They would save their customers even more money if they waived their exorbitant fees,'' said Keith Pilkington, an executive vice president of Amalgamated Bank.
Other opponents say the industry is trying to burnish its image while it promotes legislation in Albany to loosen restrictions on short-term loans, which typically last three to six months. The legislation would allow the loans at higher rates than currently permitted, but lower than the industry says is available on out-of-state loans secured through the Internet.
''The timing is unmistakable,'' said Russ Haven, legislative counsel for the New York Public Interest Research Group. ''They're trying to put a fresh coat of paint on the check-cashing industry at the same time they're pushing hard in the Legislature to get the right to make loans at several times over the state usury cap.''
In the Bronx, the city's poorest borough, check cashers have flourished even as more bank branches have opened in underserved and low-income areas. There are 131 cash-checking stores in the Bronx, up from 118 in 2007, according to state records. During that same period, the number of bank branches in the borough increased slightly, to 152 from 145.
A 2010 study commissioned by the city's Department of Consumer Affairs found that 28.7 percent of Bronx households did not have a bank account -- the highest of any borough -- followed by Brooklyn (15.7 percent), Manhattan (13 percent), Queens (6.2 percent) and Staten Island (1.8 percent). Nationwide, 7.7 percent had no bank account.
Luis Aguila, an unemployed cook, pays nearly $15 to cash his $785 disability check every month at the RiteCheck store, at 715 East 138th Street. ''To me, it's a little bit much,'' Mr. Aguila, 52, said. ''But I think everything else, they're really good with. They work with you fast; they're friendly, and that matters a lot, even when it's 1.9 percent.''
To encourage savings, RiteCheck will give customers like Mr. Aguila the option of putting away money on the spur of the moment and of withdrawing through a RiteCheck at any time, even when the credit union is closed. The ''frictionless savings'' option is being supported with a $15,000 grant from Innovations for Poverty Action, a nonprofit research organization in New Haven.
Phil Robinson, a butcher, said he could see himself putting away $10 every Monday when he cashed his paycheck at RiteCheck. He already allows himself $10 in lottery tickets. ''I wouldn't mind doing it,'' Mr. Robinson, 41, said. ''I could turn it into a Christmas club, and at the end of the year, use it to buy gifts.''
Ameena Daoud, 57, who cashes her $612 disability payment every month, said she tried to save money by opening a Bank of America account last spring with $50, but later withdrew $42 of that because she needed the money, and let the rest go to bank fees. ''I want to save money, but it's hard,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Check cashers like this RiteCheck in the Bronx are often the main contact with the financial system for many New Yorkers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHECK CASHING SERVICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (78%); LOYALTY MARKETING (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); POOR POPULATION (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (72%); WIRE TRANSFERS (70%); PREPAID CARDS (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012



202 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Training Those Who Guide Young Minds

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''To Earn Classroom Certification, More Teaching and Less Testing'' (front page, July 30) describes teacher education reforms that in focusing on field experiences have resulted in the decimation of the important fields that comprise the social foundations of education. 
We agree that teachers need knowledge of curriculum and instruction and field experiences in which they learn to master their craft in authentic situations, but worry that we are preparing technicians who will not understand the contexts of the schools and children they teach.
These reforms reflect the simplistic belief that schools alone can overcome the effects of social and economic factors on schools and students. As veteran university teacher educators, we hope that reforms produce teachers who in addition to knowing the how and what of education also know the why.
Although reformers dismiss theory as unnecessary, to paraphrase John Dewey, theory without practice and vice versa are equally bankrupt. Unfortunately, we fear that the new generation of teachers will not know who Dewey was.
ALAN R. SADOVNIK SUSAN F. SEMEL New York, July 30, 2012
The writers are, respectively, professor of education, sociology and public affairs at Rutgers University, and professor and chairwoman of the department of secondary education at the City College of New York.
To the Editor:
As a history professor who helps train teachers at Shippensburg University of Pennsylvania, I am sympathetic to moves that would tighten standards for new teachers based on performance in student teaching. In the past (though not recently), I have been pressured by administrators to raise grades for student teachers, a symptom of the problem your article describes.
However, the imposition of an outside board, run by a for-profit company, to judge ''artifacts'' of student teacher work is not the answer. At best it duplicates what professors can and should do, and at worst it allows student teachers to submit unrepresentative or ''canned'' snippets of their work.
Here are two alternatives. First, separate licensing from college graduation by having prospective teachers do student teaching after completing undergraduate degrees, which should weed out weak candidates. Second, require school districts hiring new teachers to speak in person or by telephone to the student teaching supervisor, and ask point-blank the most telling question: ''Would you want this person teaching your own children?''
ROBERT SHAFFER Shippensburg, Pa., July 30, 2012
To the Editor:
Inspired teaching is more art than science. Yet we persist in discouraging the best and the brightest from entering the classroom by requiring them to jump through a series of hoops in schools of education that can at best produce only average practitioners.
Auditions would allow candidates to demonstrate their effectiveness in far more authentic ways than paper-and-pencil tests. The performing arts have proved over the decades that this approach can work. With some modifications, it can identify talent in education as well.
WALT GARDNER Los Angeles, July 30, 2012
The writer is the author of the Reality Check blog for Education Week.
To the Editor:
This appears to be a serious attempt to ''professionalize'' teaching. I assume, although the article did not mention the subject, that it will also include ''professionalizing'' teacher salaries.
HELEN ZALPH New York, July 30, 2012

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CAROLINE GAMON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (96%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (92%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (91%); TEACHER EDUCATION (91%); EDUCATION REFORM (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENT TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CURRICULA (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); HISTORY (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); WRITERS (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012



203 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.08 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.14 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.02 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
TUESDAY
Minnesota, $656 million of highway general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Washington State, $703.2 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Washington State, $85.4 million of certificates of participation. Competitive.
WEDNESDAY
New York City Transportation Finance Authority, $350 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Renton, Wash., School District, $115 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority, $100 million of variable rate sales tax revenue bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
California, $59.8 million of general obligation bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
Chicago, $729 million of general airport senior lien revenue refinancing bonds. Barclays Capital.
Cleveland, $153.2 million of state university general receipts bonds. RBC Capital.
Cook County, Ill., $100 million of debt securities. Wells Fargo Securities.
Florida Municipal Loan Council, $58 million of debt securities. Wells Fargo Securities.
Fort Worth, Tex., $139.6 million of general purpose refinancing and improvement bonds. Loop Capital Markets.
Indiana Finance Authority, $137.5 million of state revolving fund bonds. Jefferies.
Indiana Finance Authority, $188.3 million of first lien wastewater utility revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Kansas City, Kan., Board of Public Utilities, $109 million of utility system refinancing revenue bonds. BMO Capital Markets.
Massachusetts Housing Finance Agency, $75.7 million of housing bonds. Barclays Capital.
Milpitas, Calif., Unified School District, $55 million of general obligation bonds. Piper Jaffray.
Mississippi, $203.9 million of unlimited tax general obligation refinancing debt securities. Raymond James.
New Jersey Economic Development Authority, $104 million of special facility revenue refinancing bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
New Jersey Economic Development Authority, $630 million of special airline facility revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
New York City Transitional Finance Authority, $850 million of debt securities. Bank of America.
Pennsylvania Higher Educational Facilities Authority, $94 million of university debt securities. Morgan Stanley.
St. Louis, $225 million of sewer system debt securities. Bank of America.
Suffolk, Va., $850 million of debt securities. Bank of America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (86%); AIRLINES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (75%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (74%); AIRPORTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); TAX LAW (70%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (83%); NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (65%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (55%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (55%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (55%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (53%); MASSACHUSETTS HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (53%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (83%); BAC (LSE) (83%); 8648 (TSE) (83%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); PJC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012



204 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: To Increase Learning Time, Some Schools Add Days to Academic Year

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
PHOENIX -- It was the last Sunday in July, and Bethany and Garvin Phillips were pulling price tags off brand-new backpacks and stuffing them with binders and pencils.
While other children around the country readied for beach vacations or the last weeks of summer camp, Bethany, 11, and Garvin, 9, were preparing for the first day of the new school year at Griffith Elementary, just six weeks after the start of their summer vacation.
Griffith, one of five schools in the Balsz Elementary School District here, is one of a handful of public schools across the country that has lengthened the school year in an effort to increase learning time.
A typical public school calendar is 180 days, but the Balsz district, where 90 percent of the students qualify for free or reduced lunch, is in session for 200 days, adding about a month to the academic year. 
According to the National Center on Time and Learning, a nonprofit research group in Boston, about 170 schools -- more than 140 of them charter schools -- across the country have extended their calendars in recent years to 190 days or longer.
Neither Bethany, who plans to run for student council president, nor Garvin, who was excited about his fourth-grade teacher, seemed bothered by the change. ''The kids' education is more important than all of these breaks that we have,'' said their mother, Debra Phillips.
A growing group of education advocates is agitating for more time in schools, arguing that low-income children in particular need more time to catch up as schools face increasing pressure to improve student test scores.
''It's not as simple as 'Oh, if we just went 12 hours every kid would be Einstein,' '' said Chris Gabrieli, chairman of the Boston group. ''On the other hand, the more time you spend practicing or preparing to do something, the better you get at it.''
Education advocates have been calling for more school time at least since the 1983 ''Nation at Risk'' report presented an apocalyptic vision of American education.
Teachers' unions, parents who want to preserve summers for family vacations and those who worry that children already come under too much academic stress argue that extended school time is not the answer. Research on longer school days or years also shows mixed results.
But studies also show that during the summer break, students -- particularly those from low-income families -- tend to forget what they learned in the school year. Getting back to school early, supporters of a longer calendar say, is one of the best ways to narrow an achievement gap between rich and poor students.
Many charter schools, including those in the academically successful KIPP network, attribute their achievement in part to longer days and calendars. President Obama has repeatedly promoted expanded school time, even inspiring ''Saturday Night Live'' to poke fun, with Seth Meyers saying in his Weekend Update segment that only ''Catherine, the fifth grader nobody likes,'' would support such a proposal.
Within the last two years, both the Ford Foundation and the Wallace Foundation have made multimillion dollar commitments to help nonprofit groups work with school districts to restructure the school day and year.
Advocates of longer school years say that the 180-day school year is an outdated artifact.
''The fact that our calendar has been based on the agrarian economy when almost none of our kids work in the field anymore,'' said Arne Duncan, secretary of education, ''doesn't make any sense whatsoever.''
Yet several recent efforts to lengthen the school calendar have foundered. The Woodland Hills Academy in Pittsburgh extended its school year to 195 days in 2009, but this year it will return to the traditional 180-day calendar because of state budget cuts. Similarly, Parkside Elementary in Coral Springs, Fla., tried a 200-day calendar for one year before abandoning it because of insufficient financing.
Last year, legislators in Arkansas and New Mexico introduced bills to institute a 200-day school calendar, but both stalled. In Iowa, after Gov. Terry E. Branstad discussed the possibility of lengthening the school year at several town-hall-style meetings, protesters prompted the state to convene a study group to examine the issue.
Critics say that with so many schools already failing, giving them more time would do little to help students.
''It is true that we have an unfair society, and it is true that kids who are coming from the poorer backgrounds and whose parents don't do a lot of reading are losing reading skills over the summer,'' said Peter Gray, research professor of psychology at Boston College. ''But let's look at other solutions.'' He added, ''Whatever job we give to the school system, they ruin it.''
Advocates say that schools need to plan carefully how they will use the extra time. Some say that adding the kinds of art, music and other activities that more affluent students typically get outside school is as important as beefing up academics. In Chicago, Mayor Rahm Emanuel and the teachers' union have been battling over his plan to lengthen the school day; an agreement was reached last month when the school district agreed to hire back teachers for more enrichment programs rather than simply forcing classroom teachers to work longer hours.
''Better is as important as the more,'' said Jeannie Oakes, director of educational opportunity and scholarship programs at the Ford Foundation.
When Jeffrey Smith, superintendent of the Balsz district, arrived in 2008, he inherited a district where two of the five schools had been rated underperforming for several years running and the district was at risk of being taken over by the state.
With the recession pinching state and local budgets, Mr. Smith seized on an Arizona law that gave an additional 5 percent of state financing to districts that added 20 days to the school year.
While many parents supported the initiative, some teachers resisted, worried that they would not receive enough extra pay to compensate for the additional time. The school board voted in 2009 to extend the year, and with the additional state financing and a local property tax increase, the district raised teacher salaries by 9 percent.
Since the district transitioned to the longer calendar, the proportion of students passing state reading tests has gone to 65 percent from 51 percent, and math scores are also improving.
Some teachers say that it is a new curriculum, targeted tutoring and two hours of professional development a week, as much as the extra days, that have helped raise achievement.
''Quantity is great, if you have the quality to back it up,'' said Kathleen Puryear, a 20-year veteran fourth-grade teacher.
The district has lost several teachers since the longer school year began. At Griffith, Alexis Wilson, the principal, said 10 out of 23 classroom teachers retired or resigned last year, some citing the 200-day schedule.
Given the choice, many children would also rather be out playing than sitting behind a desk. But Riziki Gloria, a fifth grader at David Crockett Elementary, a Balsz school that serves many refugees and homeless children, said that she was keen to get back to school. ''Sometimes summer is really boring,'' she said. ''We just sit there and watch TV.''
Outside Griffith Elementary early last Monday morning, children and their parents arrived early, eager to start. Sheena Padia said she had chosen to send her sons Isaiah and Elias Mercado to Griffith even though they live outside the district, in part because of the 200-day calendar.
''I love it because it is more education for them,'' said Ms. Padia, as Isaiah, 7, showed off new black-and-white Adidas sneakers and Elias, 5, brandished a mechanical pencil.
The shorter summer break seemed to help the students adjust quickly to being back in school. After the morning Pledge of Allegiance, Ms. Puryear's fourth graders easily recited the school's mantra: ''No one has the right to interfere with the learning, safety or well-being of others.''
Down the hall, Sarah Ravel used the morning to review school disciplinary codes, and she played get-to-know-you games with her new sixth graders. By afternoon, it was down to schoolwork as she handed out a math review sheet.
Ms. Ravel sat at the front of the class, her left hand magnified to several times its size as she projected the work sheet onto a digital white board. Hands shot into the air, waving urgently. The class had hit a tricky problem: subtract 2 hours and 45 minutes from 5 hours and 20 minutes. Ms. Ravel carefully explained how to work out the solution.
''If you are not comfortable with that, know that we are going to do one of those every day for the next 200 days,'' she said. ''I guess I should say the next 199 days,'' she amended. ''So we are going to get really comfortable.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Garvin Phillips helped his children, Garvin, 9, and Bethany, 11, get ready for the first day of school at Griffith Elementary, left, in Phoenix, which reopened on July 30 after adopting a 200-day school year instead of 180 days. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); FAMILY TRAVEL (77%); FAMILY (77%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ACADEMIC TESTING (71%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (67%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); TEACHER UNIONS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012



205 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Economic Lift, Not Just Laughs, in Tie to Comedy

BYLINE: By PAUL POST

 BODY:
JAMESTOWN, N.Y. -- For those caught up in the Olympic spirit, there was the traditional grape-stomping competition. Or perhaps the test of chocolate-wrapping skills, even if some of the competitors just could not resist sticking a few candies from the fast-moving conveyor belt inside their blouses.Then there was the look-alike contest: dozens of women, their hair teased in various degrees of shocking red, accentuated by polka-dot dresses and crimson lipstick. And if their inspiration was in any doubt, the women put that to rest by singing the ''I Love Lucy'' theme song.
Since 1991, the annual Lucy Fest has celebrated the life and career of Lucille Ball here in her hometown, allowing fans to immerse themselves in all things Lucy, like re-enacting some of Ms. Ball's more famous scenes and paying homage at the Luci Desi Museum.
But beyond the inherent zaniness of the five-day event, which ended on Sunday, there was a more serious underpinning and ambition: Officials here are working to make Jamestown, 70 miles southwest of Buffalo, a year-round national comedic destination for performers, writers and fans alike. 
''We want Jamestown to be the Cooperstown of comedy,'' said Journey Gunderson, executive director of the Lucy-Desi Center for Comedy.
Without doubt, there is considerable catching up to do. The Lucy Desi Museum draws 20,000 visitors per year, a far cry from the 300,000 yearly visitors who pass through the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum in Cooperstown, N.Y. But last year's Lucy Fest, celebrating Ms. Ball's 100th birthday, attracted 13,000 fans from around the world, a $3.6 million impact on the Chautauqua County economy.
''That's what caught the attention of regional stakeholders,'' Ms. Gunderson said. ''It proves that Jamestown can be a destination for comedy. It's about momentum.''
''Last year we had film crews from Japan, New Zealand and the BBC,'' said Tom Benson, the comedy center's board president. ''This year ABC was here for '20/20.' We're trying to build a powerful, long-lasting, sustainable economic engine. We're never going to be Texas during the oil boom. We just need something to get people excited. What better way to do it than comedy?''
Ms. Ball's daughter, Lucie Arnaz, said her mother had always wanted to do something for Jamestown. But rather than statues and a parade, her vision was a place where future generations of comics would come to develop their skills. Jamestown officials agreed, but Ms. Arnaz said the promise was not kept.
A Lucille Ball New Comedy Festival was held, but quickly fizzled in the early 1990s. When reorganized, the event was focused on nostalgia, rather than developing future comics.
''It was kind of like a 'Star Trek' convention,'' Ms. Arnaz said. ''It was fun. But in reality, my mother wouldn't have liked it.''
Since then, new leadership has taken over, and now Ms. Ball's original mission appears back on track. On Friday, Ms. Arnaz -- making her first visit to Lucy Fest in several years -- toured Jamestown's train station, where a $12 million renovation is taking place with state, federal and private money. That is where Ms. Arnaz would like to see a Hall of Fame of Comedy; it is also possible that the station, idle since 1970, might come back to life, giving comedy lovers another way to reach Jamestown.
The Jamestown area has a history of prosperity. It was once the ''Furniture Capital of the World,'' with 150 factories; Celoron Amusement Park on nearby Chautauqua Lake was called the ''Coney Island of the Southern Tier,'' where band leaders like Tommy Dorsey and John Philip Sousa performed.
The Jamestown resident and industrialist B. F. Goodrich, who, like Ms. Ball is buried in Jamestown's Lake View Cemetery, often entertained his friends Harvey Firestone, Thomas Edison and Henry Ford on summer outings at the lake.
Like most of upstate New York, however, Jamestown has seen its population decline with the disappearance of manufacturing jobs. From 50,000 people shortly after World War II, the city now numbers about 29,000, a decline of roughly 40 percent.
Comedy is seen as a vehicle for bringing people back, even if just for a visit.
''It makes sense to me,'' said T. Faye Griffin, an independent writer and producer based in Los Angeles. ''They're trying to create a place here where young performers can come to learn. What better place than Lucille Ball's hometown? It's a perfect fit.
''If anyone is serious about their craft, they'll go wherever they need to go to learn.''
Ms. Griffin just finished teaching aspiring comedic writers the finer points of improv, standup, and sketch and sitcom writing at the nearby Chautauqua Institution, which hosts educational retreats each summer with guest speakers and instructors from around the world.
Upstate New York, in addition to Cooperstown, already has several sports halls of fame: boxing (Canastota), horse racing (Saratoga Springs) and harness racing (Goshen).
Last year, with a $50,000 private grant, the comedy center conducted a feasibility study for a hall of fame, which found that remote, small-town locations are not necessarily a hindrance to creating a national destination. In fact, it might be an asset.
''A lot of times it adds to the magic of a visit, being able to step back in time to a more serene, peaceful place,'' said Jeff Idelson, the Baseball Hall of Fame president. ''These days, so many Americans live in cities and suburbs; that's what they're looking for.''
Along with a reason to laugh and escape life's pressures.
Ellie Wahl, 90, traveled all the way from Pinellas Park, Fla., for Lucy Fest.
''Besides being very funny, Lucy was very down to earth,'' Mrs. Wahl said. ''Her episodes were what could happen to anybody, any day. I identified with her. I was pregnant at the same time she was, and my son was born the same week as Desi Arnaz Jr.''
Naturally, Mrs. Wahl watched the episode when it came time for Lucy to deliver Little Ricky. All the characters, in their rush to get to the hospital, left Lucy home.
''I was laughing so hard I thought I'd have my baby that minute,'' Mrs. Wahl said.
There are already plans to expand Lucy Fest; Mr. Benson, the board president of the Lucy-Desi Center, said the event next year would have a comedy film festival for the first time.
The appeal of ''I Love Lucy,'' Ms. Arnaz said, is rooted in the show's inner story line.
''It's really a show about unconditional love,'' she said. ''No matter how much trouble Lucy got into, people would always forgive her. I think that's what we all want. At the end of the day, the people who really matter will give you a hug and say, 'It's O.K.' Really, comedy is such a healing force.''
And for Jamestown, the hope is that comedy can also be an economic force.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Charlotte Drobnicki and her daughter, Elizabeth Drobnicki, 15, at the chocolate factory games on Friday during Lucy Fest in Jamestown, N.Y. Top, Mary Cricks, Cathy Whalen and Marcia Hand, all sisters, at the festival on Saturday, which celebrates Lucille Ball. (A13)
 Paying tribute to Lucille Ball over the weekend at Lucy Fest. Officials want to make Jamestown, N.Y., a year-round national comedy destination. A slide show is at nytimes.com/nyregion. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) MAP (A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); FESTIVALS (78%); BASEBALL (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (74%); PARADES & MARCHES (68%); COUNTIES (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAMESTOWN, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



206 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1812 words

HEADLINE: The Leak Police

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER

 BODY:
In the months leading up to the invasion of Iraq in 2003, this newspaper famously published a number of stories regurgitating the Bush administration hype about Saddam Hussein's supposed arsenal of mass destruction. A few journalists elsewhere -- notably Jonathan Landay and Warren Strobel, then of the Knight Ridder newspapers -- dug deeper, discovered contrary intelligence, and challenged the official line. Later, The Times also published some excellent work on how an administration eager to justify its decision to go to war cherry-picked the intelligence to make its case.
The Times has owned up to -- and, we pray, learned from -- the things we got wrong. But this is a good time to look a little harder at the journalists who got it right. How did they come up with the evidence to refute the version embraced by the president, by most officials in both parties and by a lot of the mainstream media?
They got it from government officials with access to classified information, who risked their jobs to confide the truth to journalists. Critics call these ''leaks,'' although such stories hardly ever spill out unbidden; they are painstakingly assembled by teasing out bits of information, triangulating, correcting, testing, confirming. I'd call them a public service. 
Washington is currently going a little nuts on the subject of leaks. The Obama administration, which has, without really setting out to do so, already surpassed all previous administrations in its prosecution of leakers, has begun new investigations into disclosures by The Times, Newsweek, The Associated Press and others. Congress has mandated surveillance systems that make it easier to identify leakers and to prevent unauthorized downloads of classified material.
But that has not quieted the hysteria. Republicans are accusing the F.B.I. of insufficient zeal and demanding a special prosecutor. Democrats, typically worried about being perceived as soft on national security, have tried to out-deplore the Republicans. Senator Dianne Feinstein introduced a bill the other day that, among other things, would forbid background briefings on intelligence matters by anyone except an agency's director, deputy director or public-affairs spin doctors -- thus cutting out the officers with firsthand knowledge and silencing those who question the party line. It should be dubbed the Keep Americans in the Dark Act. Feinstein already seems to be backpedaling a bit, after discovering that top intelligence officials think elements of her bill are ridiculous. (For one thing, it applies only to the spy agencies and does not touch the places that routinely consume classified intelligence material -- the White House, the State Department, the Defense Department, allied foreign governments or, perhaps the leakiest vessel in Washington, Congress itself.)
Is this latest outbreak of leak panic just another mood swing? Or is something else going on?
There is a plausible case that more secrets are spilling these days. In part that is because so much material is automatically, needlessly classified that officials tend not to take classification as seriously. I suspect another factor is the enthusiasm with which senior officials contribute their notes and self-serving recollections for behind-the-scenes books, setting a permissive example for those farther down the official ladder. (The top officials thus assure their place in history; it's the juniors who get prosecuted.)
Some of the current wailing is just politics as usual, or what has become usual in the pit bull arena of the modern campaign. Mitt Romney, desperate for a way to turn President Obama's takedown of Osama bin Laden into a liability, has professed to be shocked and outraged that a president or his circle might use classified information to burnish the image of the commander in chief. The Republican nominee-to-be points to stories about Obama's handling of the Bin Laden raid, his oversight of a terrorist kill list and the administration's cyberattacks on Iran as ''contemptible'' breaches of national security.
Romney certainly knows something about keeping secrets; there have been no leaks so far of his tax returns, the names of his big-money bundlers, the records of his work as governor and Olympics czar or, for that matter, his economic plan.
But his indignation, if it is not feigned, is a little naive. One of the more insightful watchers of Washington culture had this to say on how things work in the world of information-as-power:
''Presidents make 'secret' decisions only to reveal them for the purposes of frightening an adversary nation, wooing a friendly electorate, protecting their reputations. The military services conduct 'secret' research in weaponry only to reveal it for the purpose of enhancing their budgets, appearing superior or inferior to a foreign army, gaining the vote of a congressman or the favor of a contractor. The Navy uses secret information to run down the weaponry of the Air Force. The Army passes on secret information to prove its superiority to the Marine Corps. High officials of the government reveal secrets in the search for support of their policies, or to help sabotage the plans and policies of rival departments. Middle-rank officials of government reveal secrets so as to attract the attention of their superiors or to lobby against the orders of those superiors.''
That was Max Frankel, then the Washington bureau chief of The New York Times, in a 1971 deposition defending the paper's publication of the secret Vietnam War history called the Pentagon Papers. Frankel acknowledged the self-serving nature of these transactions -- on both sides -- but concluded that this ''cooperative, competitive, antagonistic and arcane relationship,'' as he called it, was essential to the working of democracy. Without this trafficking in secrets, he said, ''there could be no adequate diplomatic, military and political reporting of the kind our people take for granted, either abroad or in Washington, and there could be no mature system of communication between the government and the people.''
I'm prepared to believe that unauthorized disclosure to the press of classified information has occasionally had dire consequences, though clear-cut examples of that are scarce. More often, what ''leaks'' have done is inform Americans about what is being done in their name -- the good (successful targeting of militants, cyberdisruption of Iran's nuclear program) and the not so good (warrantless eavesdropping, torture). Raise a hand if you'd really prefer not to know those things.
Some of the instances that seem at first glance to be irresponsible breaches of security turn out, on closer study, to be something else. Recently, The Times, along with several other news organizations, disclosed that the United States had successfully planted a double agent in Al Qaeda in Yemen, and managed thereby to thwart the suicide bombing of an airliner. Outing a double agent is a death warrant. But in this case, reporters who worked the story sought and received assurances that the agent had finished his work and moved to safety. The Qaeda double-agent revelations may well have been good for American security: sowing some corrosive mistrust among the fanatics, and creating a potential hero for young Muslims disenchanted with jihad.
Over the decades, rival interests -- the government's legitimate responsibility to keep some things secret, the press's constitutional freedom to ferret out information and report it -- have coexisted through informal understandings. The government worked to protect secrets at the source but generally accepted that it had little recourse once they had escaped. Violators were reprimanded, but hardly ever charged under the Espionage Act. Reporters and editors were sometimes persuaded to withhold information if they were convinced it could put lives at risk.
Alexander Bickel, who was the chief counsel for The Times in the Pentagon Papers case, wrote that this accommodation ''works well only when there is forbearance and continence on both sides. It threatens to break down when the adversaries turn into enemies, when they break diplomatic relations with each other, gird for and wage war. Such conditions threaten graver breakdowns yet, eroding the popular trust and confidence in both government and the press on which effective exercise of the function of both depends.''
Bickel's argument, in a seminal book of legal philosophy called ''The Morality of Consent,'' assumes a respectful -- if adversarial -- relationship between, on one side, an establishment press and, on the other, a government that accepts the value of compromise in the conduct of public affairs. It's arguable whether we have either of those today.
The notion of an establishment press is, to say the least, under siege. News comes from a dizzying number of directions. We know from the WikiLeaks case that among the legions of Internet aggregators and disseminators are at least a few who would feel no compunction about disclosing life-threatening information if they got their hands on it.
So far, though, the secrets that set Washington on edge still tend to come from reporters who have spent years developing relationships with sources, mainstream reporters like Landay and Strobel, or like David Sanger of The Times and Daniel Klaidman of Newsweek, who are prominent among the current targets of the leak police. They operate without security clearances or subpoena powers. They work, rather, with sources who may be scared, who probably know only part of the story, who may have their own agendas that need to be discovered and taken into account. Reporting secret information with confidence usually entails a multitude of sources, ideally backed by documentary evidence.
So, while the mainstream press might not enjoy the hegemony it held before the Internet, most of what the country knows about the secret activities of its government it knows thanks to news organizations that still take their responsibilities seriously: reporters who check to make sure that the double agent is safe before they publish the story. (WikiLeaks, which has built a reputation on one tremendous leak, is still the exception that proves the rule.)
Unfortunately, these are not days of -- in Bickel's phrase -- ''forbearance and continence.'' We live in a time of zero-sum politics, where trust is scarce and compromise is perilous, and where the hamster-wheel news cycle puts no special value on reflection.
In a saner Washington, a reasonable effort to control truly harmful leaks might be balanced by an equally serious effort to roll back excessive classification, so that we could have a more informed debate about drones and cyberwarfare and kill lists. In that Washington, we could worry a little less about where the stories came from, and a little more about what's in them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); IRAQ WAR (78%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (67%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (64%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012



207 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
KARZAI REASSURES ALLIES
ABOUT MINISTER DISMISSAL
President Hamid Karzai moved quickly to confirm Parliament's decision to dismiss two senior security ministers, but he reassured Western allies that he would avoid a vacuum in the two ministries charged with fighting the war and organizing the transition to Afghan control. PAGE A4
PROGRESS IN GREEK TALKS 
Envoys of Greece's international creditors wrapped up a review of the country's progress in meeting the terms of its second bailout. The inspectors and Greek government officials said they had made significant progress. PAGE A7
CRACKDOWN ON FAKE DRUGS
Chinese government authorities have detained nearly 2,000 people as part of a nationwide crackdown on the sale of fake or counterfeit drugs and health care products. Officials seized about $182 million in fake medicine. PAGE A6
National
SCHOOLS LENGTHEN CALENDARS
TO INCREASE LEARNING TIME
About 170 schools across the country have extended their calendars in recent years from a typical 180 days to 190 days or longer, according to a nonprofit research group. Advocates say that increasing time in school is one of the best ways to narrow the achievement gap between rich and poor students. PAGE A12
DIVISIVE KANSAS PRIMARIES
In Kansas, a state whose politics have been tilting further to the right, a bitter clash has developed within the state's Republican Party. Conservative and moderate Republicans essentially operate as separate parties, and each side claims to represent the soul of the party in a divisive primary campaign. PAGE A11
New York
GOVERNORS ISLAND REUNION
SHOWS BONDS THAT ENDURE
Coast Guard brats who grew up on Governors Island returned for a reunion at which they reminisced about a childhood that combined the best of city living with long meadows, historic forts and a stiff breeze off the water. They have mixed feelings about the changing landscape of their former home base. PAGE A14
BUSINESSES SUFFER IN HARLEM
Harlem Lanes opened to great fanfare in 2006, but when the economy slowed in 2008 its novelty and attractions were not enough to sustain the business. Now the bowling alley has shut down, joining other popular local venues that closed because of economic difficulties. PAGE A15
CRITICISM OF CHECK-CASHING
The check-cashing industry has come under increased scrutiny as its stores have continued to become full financial centers in low-income areas. Advocates for poor residents say the check-cashing industry takes advantage of those who have no other options. PAGE A18
Business
CYBERSECURITY START-UPS
CATCH EYES OF INVESTORS
In the last 12 months, the initial public offerings of once obscure security start-ups have outperformed offerings from household names like Facebook and Zynga. As more large organizations are targeted by hackers, big companies are expected to spend $32.8 billion on computer security this year. PAGE B1
RADIO'S ONLINE AUDIENCE
Two apps, iHeart Radio, from Clear Channel Communications, and TuneIn, help broadcasters reach new listeners. There are concerns, though, about the cost of online royalties and the two companies' plans. PAGE B1
Arts
ONE MAN MULTITASKING
BEYOND 'TWO GUVNORS'
As his run in ''One Man, Two Guvnors'' enters its last weeks, James Corden has been juggling the opportunities that have come out of his sudden success on Broadway. He is shooting a movie, writing the script of his next BBC television series and taking opera lessons. PAGE C1
TALES WITNESSED MANY WAYS
Phil Kline's ''dreamcitynine,'' a piece commissioned for the composer John Cage's centenary, partly amounts to installation art: walking around the Lincoln Center campus, you can hear 60 one-minute stories through an app on a GPS-capable smartphone. Review by Steve Smith. PAGE C2
CAPITOL THEATER TO REOPEN
The Capitol Theater in Port Chester, N.Y., a rock stage where acts like the Grateful Dead, Janis Joplin and Pink Floyd have performed, is set to reopen Sept. 4 after a $2 million renovation. PAGE C1
Sports
TRAVELING BASKETBALL COACH
WHO WOUND UP IN CHINA
Bo Overton played basketball in college for Oklahoma. He coached men and women, in college and the pros. He never wanted to be a lifer, the stereotypical old ball coach. How he ended up as an assistant with the Chinese women's national team, even Overton is not exactly sure. PAGE D4
GOLD AT SITE OF HEARTBREAK
Andy Murray has yet to win Wimbledon, but he has now won Olympic gold at Wimbledon Stadium. He was unstoppable against Roger Federer in the gold-medal match in men's singles, shrugging off two break points in the opening game and gathering strength and precision from there to win. PAGE D1
Obituaries
MARTIN E. SEGAL, 96
He made his fortune through the Segal Company, an international consulting business, but was perhaps best known as the elder statesman of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts. PAGE B10
WARREN WINKELSTEIN JR., 90
A physician and researcher, his groundbreaking studies documented the connection between unprotected gay sex and AIDS, between smoking and cervical cancer and between air pollution and chronic lung disease. PAGE B10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTERFEITING (75%); COUNTERFEIT DRUGS (75%); COMPUTER CRIME (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); FOREIGN LENDING (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (65%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (63%); CYBERCRIME (63%); BOWLING (62%); BOWLING CENTERS (62%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%); CITY LIFE (50%); HISTORIC SITES (50%); CITIES (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%); CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (50%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (50%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) GREECE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012



208 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: Partisan Impasse Drives Industry To Cut Spending

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
A rising number of manufacturers are canceling new investments and putting off new hires because they fear paralysis in Washington will force hundreds of billions in tax increases and budget cuts in January, undermining economic growth in the coming months.
Executives at companies making everything from electrical components and power systems to automotive parts say the fiscal stalemate is prompting them to pull back now, rather than wait for a possible resolution to the deadlock on Capitol Hill.
Democrats and Republicans are far apart on how to extend the Bush-era tax breaks beyond January -- the same month automatic spending reductions are set to take effect -- unless there is a deal to trim the deficit. The combination of tax increases and spending cuts is creating an economic threat called ''the fiscal cliff'' by Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve.
Until recently, the loudest warnings about the economy have come from policy makers and economists, along with military industry executives who rely heavily on the Pentagon's largess and who would be hurt by the government reductions. 
But more diversified companies like Hubbell Inc. in Shelton, Conn., have begun to hunker down as well.
Hubbell, a maker of electrical products, has canceled several million dollars' worth of equipment orders and delayed long-planned factory upgrades in the last few months, said Timothy H. Powers, the company's chief executive. It has also held off hiring workers for about 100 positions that would otherwise have been filled, he said.
''The fiscal cliff is the primary driver of uncertainty, and a person in my position is going to make a decision to postpone hiring and investments,'' Mr. Powers said. ''We can see it in our order patterns, and customers are delaying. We don't have to get to the edge of the cliff before the damage is done.''
The worries come amid broader fears that the economy is losing momentum -- the annual rate of economic growth in the second quarter fell to 1.5 percent from 2 percent in the first quarter, and 4.1 percent in the last quarter of 2011.
On Thursday, the Commerce Department reported that factory orders unexpectedly fell 0.5 percent in June from the previous month, while data on the labor market released Friday showed job creation still falling short of the level needed to bring down the unemployment rate.
All told, the political gridlock in the United States, along with the continuing debt crisis in Europe, will shave about half a percentage point off growth in the second half of the year, estimates Vincent Reinhart, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley.
More than 40 percent of companies surveyed by Morgan Stanley in July cited the fiscal cliff as a major reason for their spending restraint, Mr. Reinhart said. He expects that portion to rise when the poll is repeated this month.
''Economists generally overstate the effects of uncertainty on spending, but in this case it does seem to be significant,'' he added. ''It's at the macro- and microeconomic levels.''
Unless Congress acts to extend the tax provisions and comes up with a budget deal that averts the planned reductions in military spending and other government programs, taxes will rise by $399 billion while federal government spending will fall by more than $100 billion, according to an analysis by the Congressional Budget Office. The end-of-year battle comes after Democrats and Republicans have failed over the last year to reach long-term agreements on how to tackle the budget deficit.
Last week, Congressional leaders did manage to agree tentatively to keep the government financed through next March, extending a deadline that had been set to expire Oct. 1, but that deal did not address the extension of the tax cuts or spending reductions.
All together, the fiscal cliff's total impact equals slightly more than $600 billion, or 4 percent of gross domestic product, and if no action is taken, the Congressional Budget Office projects the economy will shrink by 1.3 percent in the first half of 2013 as a result.
With many Fortune 500 companies now setting budgets and planning for 2013, chief executives say they cannot afford to hope for the best. Wall Street is also paying more attention: over the last few weeks, chief executives of companies like Honeywell, U.P.S. and Eaton all cited the uncertainty as a threat to earnings in the second half of 2012.
''We're in economic purgatory,'' said Alexander M. Cutler, the chief executive of Eaton, a big Ohio maker of industrial equipment like drive trains and electrical and hydraulic systems. ''In the nondefense, nongovernment sectors, that's where the caution is creeping in. We're seeing it when we talk to dealers, distributors and users.''
As a consequence, Mr. Cutler lowered Eaton's projected results for 2012 in late July, adding that he sees particular weakness in the heavy-duty truck market. ''I don't think there's any question the economy is starting to see an impact from the fiscal cliff,'' Mr. Cutler said. He noted that as companies retreat, the effect is multiplied by the impact it has on other sectors, like restaurants and hotels.
Siemens, the German industrial giant, remains optimistic over the long haul about the American market, but has turned more cautious in the short-term, said the company's chief financial officer, Joe Kaeser. Siemens has slowed the filling of openings among its 60,000 member work force in the United States, while delaying some new investments and capital expenditures. ''We would expect volatility till after the election and the fiscal cliff is sorted out,'' he said.
In Washington, powerful business lobbies like the National Association of Manufacturers, the Business Roundtable, and more specialized groups like the National Electrical Manufacturers Association have grown more vocal about their frustration with the inaction of Congress, and the possible dangers ahead.
''It's totally irresponsible and absolutely insane,'' said Evan R. Gaddis, the president of the electrical manufacturers' group. ''The two parties are really dug in. Companies see the writing on the wall and business decisions are now being made on this.''
Business leaders say the latest fight feels different. Last summer, during a confrontation over raising the debt limit that risked a government shutdown, Mr. Powers of Hubbell did not alter course at his company, as he is doing now. ''We never expected the government to shut down,'' he said. ''This bluff carries much more weight.''
Many in Washington predict a solution that keeps most of the tax cuts in place and avoids the worst of the budget cuts in the short-term will emerge after the November election, but John Selldorff is not taking chances. As the chief executive of the American subsidiary of Legrand, a global manufacturer of power devices based in France, Mr. Selldorff says that for the rest of the year, his company plans to ''hold off on doing things that we might otherwise do if the environment were more stable.''
''We'd love to hire more people, but we're saying no,'' he said.
Smaller companies that serve both military and civilian customers are also taking steps. Ace Clearwater, an aerospace firm in Torrance, Calif., began the year projecting a 7 percent rise in revenue, but now expects sales to be flat at best, down 10 percent at worst, said Kellie Johnson, the company's owner.
As a result, Ms. Johnson said the company had decided not to fill eight open positions among its 200 member work force, canceled a half-million-dollar machine order, and opted to buy a used forklift instead of a new one, saving more than $100,000.
''Everyone is sitting back and hunkering down,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Timothy Powers, chief of Hubbell, said, ''The fiscal cliff is the primary driver of uncertainty.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW SULLIVAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); EURO CRISIS (69%); STATISTICS (66%)

COMPANY: HUBBELL INC (82%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%)

TICKER: HUBB (NYSE) (82%); HUBA (NYSE) (82%); MS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335932 NONCURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS335121 RESIDENTIAL ELECTRIC LIGHTING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY H POWERS (72%); BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012



209 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Pollsters Struggle to Pin Down the Right (Cell) Number

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
As they gauge voter sentiment in this tight presidential race, pollsters face a big challenge: more and more voters hang up on them.
So it sounds odd that some pollsters have decided to hang up on more voters.
Yet that is one way survey researchers have adapted to the communications revolution that has upended old methods of measuring which political party is ahead. In the polarized battle between President Obama and Mitt Romney, arcane shifts in polling techniques can have important consequences for the results -- and public perceptions of the contest.
Bill McInturff, a Republican pollster, and Peter Hart, his Democratic counterpart, who conduct the NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll, proved the point in their latest poll, conducted July 18-22, when they increased the proportion of respondents who rely exclusively on cellphones to 30 percent from 25 percent. To home in on them, the pollsters ended calls answered on cellphones if the respondents said they also had land lines.
Their findings affirmed arguments that ''cell only'' Americans have significantly different, and more Democratic, political views than those with land lines. Over all, the poll showed Mr. Obama leading Mr. Romney by 49 percent to 43 percent -- providing a confidence-boosting talking point for Democrats and provoking sharp criticism from Republicans. 
Scott Rasmussen, who owns an independent polling firm, approaches the ''cell only'' problem differently, as he must by law. His Rasmussen Reports conducts surveys through automated dialing, which under Federal Communications Commission rules is permitted for land lines but not cellphones.
So in Mr. Rasmussen's polls, online interviews account for 15 percent to 20 percent of each survey, which he figures helps him reach the same kinds of voters, especially younger ones, in the ''cell only'' category. The result he reported the morning of July 25, a few hours after the NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll was released, was strikingly different: Mr. Romney had 47 percent, and Mr. Obama 44 percent.
''Nobody has the answers,'' Mr. Rasmussen said of different approaches to the issue. ''We're all experimenting with the same thing. How do you reach people in a way they communicate?''
Political pollsters have long struggled to keep pace with changes in how Americans communicate with one another -- or don't. One of their central challenges is the decline in ''response rates'' among voters.
Another is ensuring that their means of reaching people produce accurate reflections of voter sentiment. The rapid rise of cellphones as the sole means of telephone communication for many Americans -- now about one-third of the population, government researchers say -- has produced a distinct subgroup within the electorate.
That group is not only younger but also ''attitudinally different from other people'' of all ages, said Mark S. Mellman, a pollster for Democratic candidates. Among their characteristics: they are disproportionally urban, African-American, on either the high or low end of the economic ladder -- and Democratic.
''It used to be if you got the number of young people right, you got the poll right,'' Mr. Mellman said. ''That's no longer true.''
But accounting for those ''cell only'' voters is not so easy. Regulations limit how pollsters can dial cellphone numbers, making those calls roughly twice as expensive as land line calls -- a cost some pollsters and their customers are not willing to bear.
Moreover, there is no consensus on the right method for handling such polling. The ABC News/Washington Post polls, like the NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll, terminate calls if cellphone respondents say they also have land lines.
The New York Times/CBS News Poll, like the Gallup Organization and Pew Research Center, does not. Instead, Times/CBS pollsters complete interviews with all willing cellphone respondents and ''weight'' the views of those without land lines to make them reflect one-third of the survey's results.
Others remain skeptical that one-third is even the right target for ''cell only'' voters.
''I have yet to see a standard that I believe is anything more than a guesstimate,'' said the Republican pollster Whit Ayres, adding that he believed the industry would soon shift toward Internet surveys. For now, his firm conducts 15 percent to 20 percent of its interviews with cellphone users, without distinguishing between ''cell only'' voters and those who also have land lines.
''Anyone who claims there's a best practice doesn't know what they're talking about,'' said Paul J. Lavrakas, president of the American Association for Public Opinion Research. ''We as an industry don't know.''
The closeness of the Obama-Romney race raises the stakes for the varying approaches pollsters take -- for private campaign strategy as well as public debate. ''We're in a world where small differences make a big difference,'' Mr. Mellman said.
In the NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll, the increase in the ''cell only'' sample coincided with a slightly stronger showing by Mr. Obama among that group. He led Mr. Romney by 13 percentage points among ''cell only'' voters, compared with an average lead of 10 points earlier in the year, when such voters were a smaller part of the poll. Among land line voters, Mr. Obama held a 3 percentage point edge.
The poll drew particular criticism from Republicans over the partisan balance of the 1,000 voters surveyed. Democrats outnumbered Republicans by 11 percentage points -- substantially higher than the 6.7 percentage point Democratic advantage in an average of surveys monitored by Pollster.com as of Sunday afternoon.
''Absurd,'' Ari Fleischer, former press secretary for President George W. Bush, wrote on Twitter. Pollsters like Mr. Rasmussen, who restricts his surveys to ''likely voters'' rather than the larger universe of those registered, weight their results to reflect their estimate of the nation's current partisan balance; the NBC News/Wall Street Journal and Times/CBS News polls generally do not.
Fellow Republicans ''aren't happy'' with the size of Mr. Obama's lead, Mr. McInturff said of the NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll. While he acknowledged that the survey's respondents were ''a tick more Democratic than I believe the electorate will be,'' he noted that the shifts from June in Mr. Obama's proportion of the vote (an increase of 2 percentage points) and in Mr. Romney's (a decrease of 1 percentage point) fall within the survey's 3.1 percentage point margin of sampling error.
But given the changes in American culture and communications, Mr. McInturff added, ''A little humility these days goes a long way, considering how complex and difficult this job is becoming.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A new poll with a higher number of ''cell only'' respondents gave President Obama a six-point lead over Mitt Romney. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (71%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (71%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (71%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012



210 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include consumer credit for June (Tuesday); second-quarter productivity (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims, the trade deficit for June and wholesale trade inventories for June (Thursday); and import prices for July (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting will include Tyson Foods (Monday); Cablevision, CVS Caremark, Molson Coors, Sirius XM Radio and Walt Disney (Tuesday); Macy's, News Corporation, Kohl's, MBIA and Nordstrom (Thursday); and J. C. Penney (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Wednesday, mechanics and pilots are to vote on whether to accept AMR's latest proposal on concessions to help reorganize it in bankruptcy, and Eastman Kodak is expected to auction more than 1,000 of its imaging patents.
OVERSEAS On Thursday, the Bank of Japan will meet about monetary policy, and Manchester United is set to price its initial public offering.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (88%); AUCTIONS (88%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); PRODUCTIVITY (88%); CONSUMER LENDING (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); IMPORT PRICES (71%); SATELLITE RADIO (70%); MONETARY POLICY (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (50%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (72%); SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (72%); CVS CAREMARK CORP (72%); TYSON FOODS INC (58%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (57%); WALT DISNEY CO (57%); MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (56%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (56%); BANK OF JAPAN (56%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (72%); NWS (ASX) (72%); SIRI (NASDAQ) (72%); CVS (NYSE) (72%); TSN (NYSE) (58%); TAP (NYSE) (57%); DIS (NYSE) (57%); MANU (NYSE) (56%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (72%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (72%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (72%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (72%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (58%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (58%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (58%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (58%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (57%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (57%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (57%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (57%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (56%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (56%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012



211 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Outside Cash in Missouri Race Could Act as National Model

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Missouri's long, divisive Republican Senate primary draws to a close Tuesday, but after all the intraparty fireworks, it is the incumbent Democrat, Senator Claire McCaskill, who remains in deep trouble.
As the three Republican candidates have battled it out, Ms. McCaskill has had to buckle down as well. Karl Rove's Crossroads GPS, David and Charles Koch's Americans For Prosperity, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the 60 Plus Association have dumped as much as $15 million into the state since July 2011 to keep her on her heels.
In their advertisements, Ms. McCaskill's face is sometimes bloated, sometimes goofy, sometimes exhausted. She is usually joined at the hip with President Obama. And she is always almost single-handedly to blame for Missouri's economic travails, the nation's skyrocketing debt, the Democrats' health care law and a scandalous level of duplicity.
''As one guy said to me in rural Missouri, 'Don't worry, they're trying to tenderize you before they pick a candidate,' '' Ms. McCaskill said Thursday. 
The sustained campaign could become a textbook for future efforts in a new era of anything-goes campaign financing, both Ms. McCaskill and her opponents say.
Most of the spending is coming from tax-exempt 501(c)(4) organizations like Crossroads GPS, which may accept large corporate and individual donations without disclosing donors' identities. And the outcome could show that third-party advertising from these organizations and from ''super PACs'' -- like Now or Never, which works on behalf of Sarah Steelman, one of the Republican candidates -- could tip the balance to a larger degree in a statewide or Congressional race than in the presidential contest.
In other states with contested Republican primaries, like Arizona, Indiana and Wisconsin, outside money flowed in to take sides in the primaries themselves, leaving the Republican contenders wounded and the Democrat in better shape. In Missouri, it flowed in largely to take down the Democrat, providing vital air cover while the Republicans fought each other below the radar.
The three Republican candidates may be lesser known and less dynamic than Ms. McCaskill, a mainstay of Missouri politics, but she is possibly the most endangered incumbent in the Senate. A Mason-Dixon poll published on July 28 in The St. Louis Post-Dispatch found her trailing all three of her potential opponents, John Brunner, a businessman; Ms. Steelman, a former state treasurer; and Representative Todd Akin.
''When you have a late primary like in Missouri's, the ability to keep a sustained message-fire on the incumbent is going to be important to whoever the nominee is going to be,'' said Kenneth Goldstein, president of the Campaign Media Analysis Group, which tracks campaign television spending.
Republicans are reluctant to give the outside groups too much credit. They say Ms. McCaskill's uphill climb to a second term is due to her fealty to Mr. Obama's legislative agenda in a state where he is unpopular.
''Certainly the outside spending has reminded voters why they might not like her much,'' said Todd Abrajano, an aide to Mr. Brunner. ''But if there was no outside money, she'd still be in the predicament she is in today.''
But when pushed, Republicans do not deny that the groups have helped.
''They are keeping the pressure on McCaskill,'' Mr. Akin said. ''And that's making any of us think, 'We can do it, we can do it.' ''
Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, allowed, ''I can't deny it's had some impact.''
The Missouri Senate race has drawn outside money from more than a half-dozen groups: two Democratic outfits, the Majority PAC and Patriot Majority USA; and five Republican allies. The Campaign Media Analysis Group tallied $5.2 million in ads since June 1, compared with $4.8 million in Ohio, $2.9 million in Florida, $1.5 million in Montana and $1.1 million in North Dakota, where other contested Senate campaigns have drawn outside attention.
The Majority PAC has spent $722,000 since June to help Ms. McCaskill. Crossroads GPS has spent $857,000 against her, and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce $190,000.
Democratic strategists say those numbers understate the impact. Crossroads GPS's first ads ran in early July 2011, and since then, nine separate ads have come in a rolling barrage. When Crossroads GPS eased up in June, the chamber peaked in July. By the Democrats' count, anti-McCaskill spending has already reached $15.2 million, with an additional $18 million in advertising slots reserved for the fall.
''People will look back at Missouri and look back at the money that's been spent by outside forces and say this is an election that shows whether or not these anonymous masters of the universe can buy these elections,'' Ms. McCaskill said. ''If it works in Missouri, then I think we're in for a rough ride in this country.''
Her opponents dismiss that. Since Ms. McCaskill's narrow Senate victory in 2006, her state has drifted right. Mr. Obama lost Missouri in 2008 by fewer than 4,000 votes out of nearly three million cast. But in a 2010 Senate race, Roy Blunt, then a Republican representative, crushed Robin Carnahan, a Democratic scion of Missouri political royalty, by nearly 14 percentage points.
Some Missouri Republican strategists said the outside groups knew that Ms. McCaskill could not win and flooded the state to claim a scalp to take to their donors. Others said they saw her weakness and decided they could not forgive themselves if they let her off the mat.
For her part, Ms. McCaskill has made the outside money the main opponent of the campaign.
One McCaskill advertisement says: ''They just keep coming back. Secret money attacking Claire McCaskill. These big oil and insurance companies don't want you to know who they are.'' As a stream of televisions showing her competitors' ads moves across the screen, it continues: ''Claire McCaskill will fight them. Always has, always will.''
Republicans say her effort has proved to be a major strategic error. Ms. McCaskill's focus on the money has only intensified awareness of the campaign's national importance, made her look defensive and increased the resolve of the outside groups to stay in, they say.
But Ms. McCaskill said that once her opponent was chosen, she could shift gears and try to move the race from a referendum on her to a choice between her and her opponent.
''I've had to tread water,'' she said, ''while they have been pounding me with certainly more per capita than anybody else in the country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Claire McCaskill has faced a steady stream of ads. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
Senator Claire McCaskill, a Democratic incumbent, at the Capitol. Outside groups have spent millions of dollars on advertisements against her since last summer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ERNST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Three Republicans, including John Brunner and Sarah Steelman, are seeking the party's nomination to challenge Ms. McCaskill. During the primary campaign, the outside groups' advertising has helped them by keeping the pressure on the incumbent. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ORLIN WAGNER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); TAX LAW (68%); HEALTH CARE LAW (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%)

PERSON: CLAIRE MCCASKILL (93%); CHARLES KOCH (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); W TODD AKIN (58%); KARL ROVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012



212 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; culture

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Between the Devil and the Deep Blue Sea

BYLINE: STEPHEN HEYMAN


HIGHLIGHT: A new book and exhibit recount the proud history and sad fate of the S.S. United States, which for a time was the fastest and most advanced ocean liner ever built. 

 BODY:
There's some sadness in the story of the S.S. United States, which for a time in the 1950s and 1960s was the fastest and most advanced ocean liner ever built. It was the lifelong project of William Francis Gibbs, America's preeminent naval architect, a self-taught engineer who, among his many other achievements, was instrumental in transforming a German liner captured during World War I into the Leviathan, the pride of America's postwar passenger fleet. Then, during World War II, he pioneered a revolutionary process to construct the so-called Liberty Ships, which became symbols of America's industrial might. All along, Gibbs nursed plans to build a revolutionary superliner. But his designs, hatched in his parents' Philadelphia attic as early 1916, were not realized until 1952. Ten years after its christening, his transatlantic ship would prowl the icy North Atlantic as a kind of floating anachronism, jet planes having turned its record three-day, 10-hour crossing time into a sorry joke. Such is the sweep of "A Man and His Ship" (Simon & Schuster, $30) an absorbing, transporting new history by Steven Ujifusa, which coincides with a show about the S.S. United States now on view at the Forbes Gallery (through Oct. 20).
Gibbs's ship did not meet its sad fate alone. By the 1960s, even Cunard's famous "Queens" - the Queen Mary and the Queen Elizabeth - became "ghost ships of the Great Circle," wrote one passenger at the time. "It was then possible for a single solitary passenger to turn up for tea in the dim depths of the grand saloon and sit magnificently alone while a dozen white jacketed stewards stood around like sentries." But while Cunard has managed to keep the legacy of transatlantic travel alive with its Queen Mary 2, the flagship of the United States Lines has been laid up in South Philadelphia since 1996. Its chic, streamlined insides were gutted and sold for scrap, and the future of its rusted hull remains very much in doubt. 
The most entertaining sections of Ujifusa's book are really a kind of preamble to Gibbs's time. The first several chapters give an abbreviated history of the golden age of ocean liners, inaugurated in 1906 with the launching of Cunard's Mauretania. We have an idea, perhaps, of what this period looks like - all cotillions and White Star Line ashtrays - but Ujifusa colors it in. "Gone were the days of the 19th-century wooden paddle-wheel steamer, with its stiff bunks, chamber pots and pervasive stink of bilge water," Ujifusa writes. "On board the Mauretania, men dressed for dinner in white tie and tails, women retrieved their jewels from the purser's office, and the first-class kitchen rivaled the one at the London Ritz." Despite significant interruptions - the Titanic's sinking, the stock market crash - the boom time for big boats continued through the 1920s and '30s, a period of wild sea-born celebration symbolized by the Cole Porter musical "Anything Goes."
"The five- or six-day trip was filled with masquerades, passenger talent shows, shuffleboard tournaments, and smoking room bridge games. After dark, the booze flowed and hot jazz bands blared from the ballroom stage. The Prince of Wales and Queen Marie of Romania joined Cornelius Vanderbilt III and Vincent Astor at captains' tables overflowing with grilled antelope, quail eggs and caviar. New York's corrupt mayor, Jimmy Walker, set a new standard for shipboard dandyism: he packed his steamer trunks with forty-four suits, twenty pique vests (to wear with his tailcoats), twelve pairs of trousers, and a hundred cravats. At the captain's table, Commodore Sir James Charles of the Cunard Line demanded that male guests don evening dress, complete with military decorations and hereditary medals. A legendary gourmand, he dropped dead during one of his gargantuan feasts aboard the Aquitania in 1928."
While the ocean liner, especially during Prohibition, was a refuge for sybarites of all stripes, Gibbs himself was a rather dour teetotaler, persnickety and, despite being a devoted husband, something of a chauvinist. He praised a female shipping executive for being "the only woman in the world who can keep her mouth shut" and once confirmed a journalist's suspicion that he loved his ship more than his wife. On the rosier side, he was a stickler for safety, setting standards that went far beyond existing maritime regulations. Keenly aware that fire posed the greatest risk to any ship at sea, he would not allow any wood whatsoever in the United States' interiors, even going as far as asking Theodore Steinway, of Steinway & Sons, to make his pianos for the ship out of aluminum. (Steinway had to douse one of his wood-framed baby grands with gasoline and ignite it to prove it did not pose a fire risk. The gasoline burned, but the piano itself did not; Gibbs was satisfied and allowed them aboard.)
Much of Ujifusa's book is a portrait in determination, as Gibbs's plans for his big ship are continually tossed about in political, economic and personal squalls. A less single-minded man may have given up at numerous times. In fact, even as transatlantic liners were passing into obsolescence, Gibbs maintained that he should be building more of them, a sentiment echoed by the United States' first captain, Commodore Harry Manning. "She should have had a sister ship," he said in 1967. "This business of putting it all in airplanes is nonsense." Gibbs died in 1974 at age 81.
Compared with its 40-year gestation period, the United States' time at sea was brief, albeit memorable. "It is ultramodern," wrote a newspaper columnist shortly after the 1952 launch, "a big chromium, air-conditioned, streamlined Park Avenue apartment house afloat." The crossing lured luminous passengers like Marilyn Monroe, Jack Benny, Marlon Brando, Cary Grant, Salvador Dali, even a young Bill Clinton. When the Duke and Duchess of Windsor came aboard, Ujifusa writes, "They brought along 150 Louis Vuitton steamer trunks and suitcases. Stewards replaced United States Lines' linens with Windsor-monogrammed Porthault towels and sheets. Custom drapes were installed, leopard skin rugs were thrown on the floor, and pictures in jewel-encrusted frames placed on the tables. Their suite was no longer fireproof but it was now fit for royalty and looked as if the Windsors lived there year-round. Not only that, but their two pug dogs were allowed to romp around the suite during the day." Among the other artifacts now on view at the Forbes Gallery are aluminum panels covered in paint and gold leaf that were taken from a mural in the Windsors' suite - one of thousands of pieces of the great ship that were auctioned off to the highest bidder after it was retired in 1969.

        
Out and About | Cruising the Caribbean
        
Out and About | The Cruise Edition
        
Battle Ships | The New Queen Victoria Versus the Queen Mary 2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (89%); WORLD WAR I (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (72%); WORLD WAR II (72%) cruising; Cunard; S.S. United States; United States Lines; William Francis Gibbs; Culture; Travel

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



213 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Middle East Journal: I'll Stick With Our Model (as Long as I Can)

BYLINE: PAUL DOWNS


HIGHLIGHT: Is our model actually better for us as a country?The endpoint of our path is pretty much the elimination of people in factories. 

 BODY:
This is my last post onmy trip to the Middle East. It's going to be a while before I see any return on my investment, but the cost has not been outrageous. The trip cost about $4,100, including the twoGold Key fees. I'll be reimbursed for about half of that by the State of Pennsylvania. We are in the process of putting together printed materials, and I'm mulling another trip in the fall to present them.
For me, the most interesting part of the trip was getting to see the factory I wrote about in my previous post -- a factory that may well compete with us for a project. It gave me a fresh perspective on the global competition among manufacturers.
I know nothing about the financial performance of the factory, but I do know its manager intends to charge about $33,000 for the very large boardroom table that we are both bidding on. Based on the size and features that I had seen, we could make something the same size for about $45,000 -- but it would be a very different product. Ours would go together much better because all of the parts would be cut precisely. And we would be able to cut the openings for the audio-visual equipment perfectly, so that the installation would be faster. His shop will have trouble matching the same level of precision. 
But he could throw a whole lot of workers at the project, as many as needed to do the fussy final fitting. The last time we made a big table like that without the use of our computerized cutting machine, we spent more time fitting the top pieces together than we spent on the rest of the project combined. With the cutting machine, our time for making complex table tops dropped by more than 40 percent. The addition of a sophisticated sanding machine dropped the time another 20 percent.
If I were running the factory in Dubai, I would identify the most productive workers, triple their wages, fire the rest, and spend two-thirds of the money saved on better machinery. That sounds brutal, but it is what has happened in every factory in America -- the ones still operating, that is. In many cases, that happened over a long time, and in other cases it happened abruptly. The alternative path for American managers was to take production overseas, where labor is so inexpensive that low productivity doesn't matter. And many of them did just that.
Is our model actually better for us as a country? It has worked fairly well so far -- so long as the displaced factory workers could find work in other parts of the economy. But the endpoint of our path is pretty much the elimination of people in factories.
My biggest marketing struggle is convincing people that our product, which incorporates a lot of hand labor, is worth the extra money I need to pay that workforce. I could come up with a different table, one that requires less labor, and sell it for less money. But it would be crummy and cheap. And because a lot of companies took that route before me, I'd be entering a mature market where my product would be a commodity.
Without deep pockets, which I do not have, I can't compete that way. I'll keep my current model operating as long as I can.

        
Middle East Journal: Can We Compete With a Factory in Dubai?
        
Middle East Journal: Pitching Tables in Dubai
        
Middle East Journal: Why I Went to Kuwait
        
I Have Seen the Future of Manufacturing, Part 2
        
I Have Seen the Future of Manufacturing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%) Dubai; exporting; going global; labor issues; manufacturing; Middle East Journal; Factories and Manufacturing; Labor and Jobs; Productivity; Small Business; Tables; Dubai (United Arab Emirates); Middle East; Staying Alive

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) Dubai (United Arab Emirates); Middle East

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



214 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1753 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: Introducing the Cashtag

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Plus: Will Chick-fil-A sell more or fewer sandwiches because of the controversy? 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
The Big Story: The Olympics and Small Business
London's games are a "disaster" for small businesses. Sports fans attending the games were told on Sunday to avoid nonurgent text messages and Twitter posts during the events because overloading of data networks was affecting television coverage. These were the 25 most absurd moments of the opening ceremony. Brent Rose says that technology is making the Olympics worse. Jason Fell learned three social media lessons from the Olympics. This blogger learned a lot about business from the British. Gwen Moran offers some Olympic training tips to coach your employees to greatness. London's mayor gets stuck on a zipline. Aly Raisman's parents are awesome. City Hall workers in Los Angeles are urged to watch less of the games. This infographic sums up the games' finances.
The Economy 1: Doing Just Fine
Texas factory activity (pdf) continued to increase in July. Personal and disposable income also increased, and although consumer spending was flat, consumer confidence rose. Chrysler reported a healthy second-quarter profit; General Motors did not. Home prices are going up. June construction spending rose. Weekly unemployment claims increased to 365,000, but companies added 163,000 more jobs in July and 200,000 trucking jobs are still vacant. An economics student says the United States is clearly one of the best countries in which to do business. A study finds that recessions lead to increased entrepreneurship. American manufacturers are more upbeat about the domestic economy than the global economy. Some economists feel that Washington may be inching back from the cliff. Ami Kassar celebrates those helping small businesses. Mark Perry says the private sector really is doing just fine. And it's official: Americans love small businesses!
The Economy 2: Not Doing So Fine 
Kathleen Madigan concludes that 2012 has been a big disappointment. Corporate profits are stagnating. A key manufacturing index "remains terrible." Global manufacturing weakens further but the Federal Reserve decides to take no action (for now). The government's debt now exceeds our gross domestic product, and euro zone debt hits record highs. An index shows the economic confidence of entrepreneurs slipping. And with weak employment and compensation growth, many small-business owners are holding back on hiring.
Social Media: Introducing the Cashtag
Jay Bauer says that not tracking social media return on investment is your fault. Ever wonder what makes something go viral on the Internet? (It's anger!) Twitter introduces the "cashtag" and passes 500 million users (with Jakarta the world's "biggest tweeting" city). An Internet prankster wages a successful campaign to draw a rap star to Alaska. A plastic surgeon drives his business with social media. Stephanie Sammons suggests seven ways to build blog traffic using LinkedIn.
Management: Credibility Killers
Curt Schilling tries to explain what went wrong. Tim Berry names three credibility killers in business plans. When it comes to referrals, Yvonne DiVita says there are a few things you should never do. Alyson Stanfield says to beware of saying, "I am not." A research firm finds that small businesses often choose not to grow. Emily Suess says there are five ways to inspire trust in your customers, including, give them "something for nothing." An entrepreneur turns wedding photos from smartphones into a business. Abigail Tracy explains how to beat the retail giants. The Economist reports on the challenges of the shipping industry. These are the best food and beverage ideas this year. These are the worst franchises to buy in 2012. And here are five legal mistakes to avoid. Chick-fil-A got a lot of free publicity.
Your People: Why Aren't You Delegating?
J.C. Penney plans to get rid of its checkout counters and clerks. Amy Gallo asks, Why aren't you delegating? Steve Cooper believes you will make more money if you make your employees happy. This infographic shows how Etsy turns artists into entrepreneurs and outsourcer Elance reports an upswing in the "creative economy." Levi Newman explains how being a Debbie Downer can hurt your career. Employee ranking systems fall out of favor at many companies.
Marketing: Collecting Leads
Here are 12 simple ways to collect leads online, 10 niche social platforms to generate new leads and six creative small-business promotional items. Small businesses are using more gaming principles to help their marketing. Frank Reed explains how mobile marketing can add to consumer trust and warns: "Until marketers think about mobile as a regularly used and effective channel they will continue to silo it." Here are five defenses againstpoor word-of-mouth. Matthew Needham says to get more clients you have to keep existing customers engaged.
Sales: 50 Reasons to Buy From You
These six things will kill your next sale. David Newman offers 50 reasons people should buy from you. Marcus Sheridan says there are 50 benefits to blogging, including: "You'll find those in sales become much better at their job when they blog. Don't believe me? Write about a subject for the next hour and then go explain that subject to a friend or client and see just how easily the words and thoughts flow." Justin Beck offers five tips for selling to the new power generation.
Start-Ups: The Older Crowd Jumps In
Start-ups run by the 55-and-older crowd increase, and AARP wants even more. Here are the six personalities every start-up needs to thrive. A new film production company is seeking money. The Internal Revenue Servicegives tips for start-ups. Small-business borrowing falls in June but Chase is ranked among the top small-business lenders. Box, an enterprise cloud storage company, nets $125 million in financing.
Around the Country: Disaster Area
Half of the United States' counties are now drought disaster areas, and the Mississippi River's low-water levels are affecting the economy. San Bernardino, Calif., files for bankruptcy and a court lets Stockton, Calif., cut its retiree health care payments.Zombies run amok in New York City. In Philadelphia, two entrepreneurs offer a cheaper way to send money to Latin America, the city government looks to spend $120 million on technology and a distracted talker falls onto the subway tracks. Tech start-ups sprout in "Silicon Prairie." Rob Pitingolo says the small-business culture in Portland, Ore., is "just out-of-control good." San Francisco is embracing the pop-up for neighborhood revitalization. A Detroit boy sells snacks to save the Motor City.
Around the World: Lights Out
More than 670 million people lose power in India but (phew!) the call centers stay open. And these are the people who keep the lights on here. Japanese industrial production falls for the third consecutive month. The Economist says Europe has a "chronic failure to encourage ambitious entrepreneurs." Twenty-three crucial days lie ahead for Greece. The euro zone's retail sales sink for the ninth month, and euro-area economic confidence drops more than expected. The citizens of Warsaw freeze for 60 seconds. A "Silicon Valley" emerges on the West Bank (somebody tell Mitt Romney). An Australian billionaire plans a real-life Jurassic Park.
Red Tape: Stiffed by the Candidates
The United States government wants your comments on burdensome regulations. This chart shows the growth of the Federal Register. The House passes the Red Tape Reduction and Small Business Job Creation Act and votes to extend the Bush-era tax rates. The Postal Service is set to default on retiree payments. A bunch of former presidential candidates stiff their small-business customers. Small-business owners slam Mitt Romney! Small-business owners slam Barack Obama! A webinar on Aug. 8 will explain what the JOBS Act means for your business.
Technology: Mobile Payments
Apple's iPad owns 85 percent of the tablet market. Android's smartphone market share declines. Square is winning the mobile payments race. Dropbox is hacked. These are nine of the best low-cost or free alternatives to Microsoft Office. Microsoft revamps Hotmail. A new company helps translate apps for a worldwide audience. These are the best ultraportable laptops of 2012.
Tweets of the Week
@BillStainton
Your competitors love it when you tell a customer, "I can't do that."
@A_Conscience
Some companies don't need competitors. They have themselves.
This Week's Bests
Rosabeth Moss Kanter says there are 10 reasons that winners keep winning, including a "positive culture of mutual respect": "For anyone who plays on a team, winning makes it easier to respect and listen to one another, because after all, if you win together, then the presumption is that everyone is a good player. Winners can maintain high aspirations and act generously toward others. Losers are more likely to blame others and disdain them as mediocre, creating a culture of finger-pointing and infighting."
Hannah Betts says that to succeed in business you should try being a feminist and a flirt: "Elizabeth I ensured that flirtation became her reign's chief metaphor, creating a language within which her authority could flourish. In remaining single, she at once maintained control over her throne and created a situation in which she could be paid court to as everybody's mistress, in Britain and beyond. For almost 50 years she ruled with this winning conflation of charm and policy, continuing to camp up her faerie queen femininity until the end. At the age of 64, she could be found ginger-wigged, gauzy-frocked, flashing her snowy bosom at the French ambassador, poised despite her 'very aged' face and tombstone teeth."
Jeff Esposito suggests three things your small business can learn from a petting zoo, including: "Engagement Is key. If you've ever been to a petting zoo, you probably know that customers are very interactive with the attraction and the employees. This type of personal engagement helps keep these establishments in their customers' memories. The question is, how can continue this level of engagement with your customers? ... Making your customers feel like they are valued and wanted will let them know you care."
Today's Question: Will Chick-fil-A sell more or fewer sandwiches because of the controversy?
Marks Group

        
This Week In Small Business: Pet Supplies!
        
This Week in Small Business: Women Rule
        
This Week in Small Business: Groupon's New Deal
        
This Week in Small Business: Managing Millennials
        
This Week in Small Business: Health Care Fantasies

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (88%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); RECESSION (76%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); CITIES (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); MAYORS (74%); SPORTS FANS (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); REAL ESTATE (69%); EURO ZONE (68%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (67%); GLOBALIZATION (64%); TEXT MESSAGING (57%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (56%); HOME PRICES (51%) economy; Small Business; Entrepreneurship; Start-ups; United States Economy; Chick-fil-A; Dashboard

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Chick-fil-A

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



215 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: Monday Reading: August Checklist for Rising High School Seniors

BYLINE: TARA SIEGEL BERNARD


HIGHLIGHT: An August checklist for rising high school seniors, simplifying mortgage loan documents, criticism grows as more check-cashing stores expand in poorer areas and other consumer-focused news from the Times Sunday and Monday editions. 

 BODY:

        
Most Texas students are not ready for college. (National)
        
U.S. officials brace for huge task of operating health exchanges. (National)
        
Tricks to finding food and paying for it. (New York)
        
More regulatory oversight for municipal bonds, please. (Sunday Business)
        
Luck vs. Skill: Seeking the secret of your success. (Sunday Business)
        
Simplifying mortgage loan documents. (Real Estate)
        
Easing the pain of workouts on the road. (Travel)
        
The dinged-up, fender-bended economic recovery plan. (Magazine)
        
Selling the girlfriend workout. (Sunday Styles)
        
Going clothes shopping in Silicon Valley, online, of course. (Sunday Styles)
        
Raising successful children. (Sunday Review)
        
The power of negative thinking. (Sunday Review)
        
Massachusetts takes on health costs. (Editorial/Sunday Review)
        
Working while sick. (Editorial/Sunday Review)
        
Fearing an impasse in Congress, industry cuts spending. (Business)
        
Banks are turning on one another as Libor inquiries grow. (Business)
        
Some schools are lengthening the school year. (National)
        
Criticism grows as check-cashing stores expand in poor areas. (New York)
        
Two mobile apps help radio reach online audiences. (Business)
        
Study questions risk of the revolving door at S.E.C. (Business)
        
Shopping through Lucky magazine will require less clicking. (Business)
        
Measuring mooching. (Economix)
        
Tweeting (and removing) a student health insurance cap. (Well)
        
August checklist for rising high school seniors. (The Choice)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCHOOL BONDS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (51%) Today in Your Money

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



216 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Measuring Mooching

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: You might divide the American political debate into those who think the poor and middle class get too many government benefits and those who think the rich do, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Much political debate in the United States today boils down to one deceptively simple question: who are the moochers? 
Consider two meanings embedded in the dictionary definition of the verb "mooch": 1. To obtain or try to get something free of charge and 2. To steal; filch. 
The first meaning seems to dominate, with the term often applied to recipients of government benefits. Missing from the mooching accusation, however, is any clear specification of which recipients of government benefits get something free of charge.

A recent book by Charles Sykes, "A Nation of Moochers: America's Addiction to Getting Something for Nothing," asserts that many Americans, both rich and poor, finagle benefits they don't deserve. Unfortunately, deservingness is not defined. As Laura Vanderkam pointed out in a discerning review in The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Sykes seems to suggest that the low-income elderly deserve Medicaid assistance, but that low-income parents and children do not.
A more nuanced version of the deservingness problem shows up in a recent blog post by the Harvard economist Gregory Mankiw, who called attention to a recent Congressional Budget Office report showing that government transfers, net of federal taxes, were greater than market income for the bottom three quintiles of all households ranked by market income in 2009. 
Professor Mankiw concluded that the lowest 20 percent of families were receiving $3 in government benefits for every dollar they earned and that the middle quintile "having long been a net contributor to the funding of government, is now a net recipient of government largess." 
This is not the same as calling the middle class moochers, but some might interpret it that way. Here are some important reasons to challenge Professor Mankiw's emphasis on net benefits compared with market income: 
First, a ranking of households by market income puts households with retirees, young children, the sick and disabled at the bottom. We shouldn't be surprised that net government transfers to these groups exceed their market income. As the C.B.O. report points out, almost two-thirds of the benefits received by the bottom quintile came from Social Security and Medicare. 
Estimates by Arloc Sherman of the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, based on Current Population Survey data on market income, show that about 50 percent of people in the bottom quintile were under 18 or over age 65, compared with about 25 percent for the top quintile. 
Calculations of "government largess" should be based on what people receive over their lifetimes. Retirees receiving Social Security and Medicare have paid taxes into the system in previous years. Similarly, households with children receiving benefits are producing future taxpayers -- who are likely to be healthier, better educated and more productive as a result of government spending on them. Most beneficiaries of the earned-income tax credit receive it for two consecutive years or less, while their children are young. 
Market income is not the only measure of economic contributions. Parents and others who care for children or other dependent family members may not pay taxes, but they provide services that government would be likely to provide if they were withdrawn - as in more funding for orphanages, foster care and nursing homes. 
Second, earnings were low in the bottom quintiles largely as a result of involuntary joblessness. Mr. Sherman's estimates show unemployment (active job hunters as a share of the labor force) at 35 percent in the bottom quintile, compared with about 9 percent in the middle quintile and 4 percent in the top quintile. 
People shouldn't be faulted for unemployment when no jobs are to be had. The economist Jared Bernstein rightfully points to the C.B.O. estimates of net transfers as evidence that government policies were successful in blunting the impact of the Great Recession on the most vulnerable members of our society. 
Third, the C.B.O. estimates do not provide entirely accurate measures of net government transfers. They are based on calculations of the difference between total transfers (including those from state and local government), and federal, but not state and local, taxes. 
Indeed, an estimate of state and local taxes paid by the middle quintile in 2009, based on Mr. Sherman's calculations using Census Bureau tax estimates, comes to $2,858 - enough to nudge their average total taxes paid ($10,558) above the value of the government transfers they received ($10,400). 
In response to a reader's comment on this limitation of the Congressional Budget Office data, Professor Mankiw posted a correction to his generalization about the middle class directly on his blog post. But that correction went unremarked by many of those who had cited his original statement.
Stepping back from these particulars, the larger point is that most government transfers take the form of social insurance against risks related to health, unemployment and poverty. As with private insurance, people shouldn't expect the premiums they pay to equal the benefits they receive. What they should expect - and appreciate - is reduced risk of an economic shock that could turn their lives upside down. 
It follows that people who receive more in government benefits than they paid in taxes are not moochers. Those who break or bend eligibility rules for private gain are - along with those who evade their taxes or shelter their income in offshore bank accounts set up for the express purpose of minimizing their tax liability.

        
Storming the Capitalist Castle
        
Credits for Children
        
As Income Inequality Grows, Some Movement at the Top and Bottom
        
The Unfunded Liabilities You Love
        
Do Tax Credits Encourage Work?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MEDICARE (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); AGING (88%); CHILDREN (88%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (88%); TAX LAW (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); POPULATION SIZE (70%); RANKINGS (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); INCOME TAX (61%); MEDICAID (58%) aid to needy families; benefits; Daily Economist; earned income tax credit; Elderly; Income Inequality; middle class; Nancy Folbre; Taxation; Mankiw, N Gregory; Federal Taxes (US); United States Economy; Congressional Budget Office; Today's Economist

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%) Congressional Budget Office

PERSON: Mankiw, N Gregory

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



217 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Fight Against E.U. Airline Emissions Plan Heats Up

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER F. SCHUETZE


HIGHLIGHT: Both critics and proponents of the E.U. airline emissions reduction scheme acknowledge that emissions from aviation, representing 3 percent of total global carbon emissions, are environmentally significant. The question is what to do about it. 

 BODY:
A meeting of 17 non-European nations hosted by the U.S. State and Transportation departments in Washington last week ended with assurances that the participants were working toward curbing their emissions from aviation.
Given that no European Union countries were invited to the gathering, it was unsurprising that all the participating nations reaffirmed their strong opposition to the European Union's Emission Trading Scheme (E.U. ETS).
Non-European countries do not like having to participate in the European cap-and-trade carbon emission plan that since the beginning of 2012 also covers airliners - European or not - that takeoff or land at European airports.
The meeting was well timed. Last Wednesday a Senate committee approved a bill that would forbid U.S. airlines from participating in the trading scheme. The bill, which has already passed the House, has broad bipartisan support.
American environmental groups, however, are protesting the bill, pointing out that left unchecked, aviation emissions are set to nearly double by 2025.
Reuters reported that 16 environmental groups wrote the White House on Friday asking President Obama not to file an Article-84 action in the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) to challenge the E.U. climate change. 
"Filing a formal proceeding to block the directive would be highly inconsistent with your Administration's efforts to reduce carbon pollution from other sources," the groups wrote.
Rendezvous reported in April that there were signs Europe may be wavering in its resolve to push the plan.
From the American point of view, one of the risks of allowing the EU to regulate aviation emissions is that any group of nations could do the same: band together to impose a fee on arriving all and departing airliners, according to a State Department official who briefed journalists on background, meaning on the condition that the official's name not be used.
Just in case there was any doubt about how the American airline and travel industry felt about the European cap-and-trade scheme, 19 industry groups wrote an open letter to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Sectary of Transportation Ray LaHood praising them for their opposition.
Both critics and proponents of the E.U. trading scheme recognize that aviation emissions, representing some 3 percent of total global carbon emissions, are environmentally significant. Those who are against the Europe-imposed fees are waiting for ICAO, a United Nations body, to set up global rules on emission reduction.
This, say critics, will not be enough. A resolution made in 2010 by the ICAO relies on aircraft-specific emission rules, national programs and voluntary targets of a "2 percent annual improvement in fuel efficiency" until 2050.
The E.U. ETS, which to date covers 30 countries, aims to reduce emissions so that in 2020 they will be 21 percent lower than they were in 2005.
According to an MIT study, the European cap-and-trade scheme would cost individual American travelers heading to Europe very little - not more than six dollars, on average, on a round trip - and would not significantly impact American airlines.
The Civil Aviation Administration of China, which oversees the large and growing Chinese airline industry, moved to forbid Chinese airlines from participating in the European cap-and-trade scheme in February.
Officials in Brussels, aware that laws against abiding by the E.U. rules could ultimately weaken their efforts, were watching the U.S. Senate decision and the State Department meeting closely.
Connie Hedegaard, the E.U. Commissioner for Climate Action, took to twitter to express her hopes that the Washington meeting would do more than just condemn the European scheme.
The EU is eagerly waiting for countries meeting in DC to come up w/ CONCRETE proposals for SUBSTANTIAL aviation emissions reductions #ICAO
- Connie Hedegaard (@CHedegaardEU) July 30, 2012
However, as Beth Gardiner reported in our Aviation Special Report, exorbitant fuel costs, not tariffs, are likely to drive fuel-saving innovations in airplane engines. With fuel costs accounting for 30 to 40 percent of airline operating budgets, she wrote, the "high and volatile price of fuel" will bring fuel economy - and lower emissions - to aviation industry.
What do you think? Are government regulations needed to curb aviation emissions? Do they necessarily have to be globally accepted to work?
A previous version of this post incorrectly stated that a bill that would forbid U.S. airlines from participating in the emissions-trading plan had passed Congress. It has passed the House of Representatives but not the Senate. 
A previous version of this post featured a picture of an American Airlines airplane at Zurich airport, but Switzerland has its own emissions trading system distinct from the E.U. ETS.

        
Away from Rio, a Big Victory for a Small Conservation Group
        
Asia Is Rising When It Comes to Expatriates' Costs, Too
        
Where Do Our Global Children Belong?
        
Americans, the Tax Man Cometh
        
You Think You're a Frequent Flyer

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (96%); AIRLINES (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); AIRPORTS (78%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); APPROVALS (74%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); AIR POLLUTION (72%); JOURNALISM (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); WRITERS (67%) Airlines and airplanes; Environment; Expatriates; Airlines and Airplanes; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Sustainability

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); INTERNATIONAL CIVIL AVIATION ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: RAY LAHOOD (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



218 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Sparing Sewers All That Restaurant Grease

BYLINE: SOPHIA LI


HIGHLIGHT: A plant in Oregon aims to use restaurant wastewater to produce electricity and a fuel akin to natural gas. 

 BODY:
Every hour of every day, plants across the United States treat the waste that flows through the nation's sewers. The process is energy-intensive. Wastewater treatment plants often consume more electricity than any other service a city provides -- sometimes even as much as 30 to 40 percent of its overall energy consumption, according to the Environmental Protection Agency.
In a push to produce more of its own energy, a wastewater treatment plant in Gresham, Ore., is turning to an unlikely source to generate power: the gray-white grease-filled wastewater that flows out of restaurants and other places where food is prepared. This month the treatment plant aims to begin using restaurant wastewater to make heat and electricity in a process dubbed "fats, oils and grease" for its contents.
The method makes use of anaerobic digesters that the facility already deploys to process solid waste. As the digesters' microbes break down the waste, they release a mix of methane and carbon dioxide similar to natural gas. Since the 1930's, some wastewater treatment plants have used this byproduct of breaking down sludge to generate heat and electricity for their operations, said Charlotte Ely, who works on water and energy efficiency issues for the E.P.A. in the Pacific Southwest.
Gresham's plant, which serves about 120,000 people in three cities east of Portland, has been making use of the digesters' gas byproduct since 1990. That generates all of the heat for the plant's buildings and about half of the electricity that the facility needs each year, said Alan Johnston, a senior engineer for the city of Gresham who oversees the treatment plant.

In January 2010, the city installed an array of solar panels that currently supply about 450,000 kilowatts hours annually, or about 8 percent of the power that the plant needs each year, he said.
Now the Gresham plant is ready to feed greasy wastewater brought in from restaurants all over the Pacific Northwest by three hauling companies to its digesters, Mr. Johnston said. He expects that adding the energy-rich restaurant wastewater to the mix - a common culprit for backed-up sewers - will increase the amount of gas that the digesters release by 40 percent.
The city began considering adapting its plant's digesters to take in restaurant waste about five years ago, Mr. Johnston said. Then, in 2009, the city of Gresham received a grant from the state's economic development department to study how feasible such a project would be. When city officials saw that the project would generate enough revenue to pay for itself in two and a half years, they gave it the green light, Mr. Johnston said.
The city constructed a tank to take in the grease-filled water and a pump to inject it into one of the plant's digesters, a capital project with a price tag of $750,000. Gresham's plant will be able to take in about 10,000 gallons each day, and haulers will pay eight cents a gallon to unload the wastewater at the plant instead of at a landfill, Mr. Johnston said. 
That alone should cover the cost of building the tank and pump to take in the grease-filled water by the end of 2014. The city also expects to save 15 to 20 percent on the plant's electricity bill, which amounts to a total of about $230,000 each year, Mr. Johnston said.
The Gresham plant, like many others around the United States, has ambitions to become increasingly self-sufficient. The city, which plans to add another engine to turn the digester gas into heat and electricity, hopes that in two years its plant will be able to produce all of the energy it needs, Mr. Johnston said.
Ms. Ely of the E.P.A. said: "It's kind of a no-brainer for a lot of facilities. The money that you save, you can then invest in capital improvements."

        
On Our Radar: Tropical Cells in the Arctic?
        
On Our Radar: More Wildfires
        
A Novel Way to Clean Wastewater
        
New Jersey Senate Bans Treatment of Fracking Waste
        
Is That Onions You Smell? Or Battery Juice?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (93%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); BIOREMEDIATION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); METHANE (76%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); CITIES (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%) anaerobic digestion; grease; Restaurants; wastewater; Johnston, Alan; Electric Light and Power; Sewers and Sewage; Waste Materials and Disposal; Environmental Protection Agency; Portland (Ore); Southwestern States (US); Business; Efficiency; Natural Gas; Research/Studies; Water Conservation

ORGANIZATION: Environmental Protection Agency

PERSON: Johnston, Alan

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (93%) OREGON, USA (93%); SOUTHWEST, USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Portland (Ore); Southwestern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



219 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 44 words

HEADLINE: The Agenda: A Slowdown in Growth, an Increase in Income Inequality

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: In the latest installment of The Agenda series, David Leonhardt writes that the income stagnation of the last decade stems, in simplest terms, from the economy's overall sluggishness and the concentration of its modest gains among a small share of the population. 

 BODY:
In the latest installment of The Agenda series, David Leonhardt writes that the income stagnation of the last decade stems, in simplest terms, from the economy's overall sluggishness and the concentration of its modest gains among a small share of the population. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (86%); POLITICS (86%) Economic Conditions and Trends; United States Politics and Government; The Caucus

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



220 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2010 words

HEADLINE: Embracing Sheldon Adelson

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: How can Mitt Romney justify his alliance with the casino operator who used to back Newt Gingrich? 

 BODY:
There are two things that set Mitt Romney's presidential campaign apart: his caution and his secretiveness.
The presumptive Republican nominee refuses to release his pre-2010 tax returns, will not identify his major fundraisers and bundlers and wiped all computer records of staff emails clean at the end of his term as governor of Massachusetts in 2006.
Romney's rationale is that material like this could be used by the Obama campaign to discredit him. In an interview published a few weeks ago, Romney told National Review:
In the political environment that exists today, the opposition research of the Obama campaign is looking for anything they can use to distract from the failure of the president to reignite our economy. And I'm simply not enthusiastic about giving them hundreds or thousands of more pages to pick through, distort, and lie about.
So what was this ever-so-guarded, moralistic ("I want to clean up the moral pollution on TV and the Internet") politician doing at a $50,000-a-couple fundraiser in Jerusalem with Sheldon G. Adelson - proprietor of one of the largest, if not the largest, gambling and casino operations in the world - seated in the honored position at his side?
Adelson and his company are under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice on allegations of foreign bribery. In addition, the United States Attorney's office in Los Angeles is investigating whether Adelson's Las Vegas Sands Corporation failed to alert authorities to millions of dollars transferred to casinos in violation of money-laundering laws, the Wall Street Journal reported on August 4.
In its 2011 Annual Report, the Sands Corp., of which Adelson is chairman and C.E.O., disclosed that
On Feb. 9, 2011, L.V.S.C. received a subpoena from the S.E.C. requesting that we produce documents relating to our compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We have also been advised by the Department of Justice that it is conducting a similar investigation. Any violation of the F.C.P.A. could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.
Adelson and other officials of the Sands Corp. have denied they have done anything wrong.
There is a succinct answer to the question of why Romney would take the risk of closely associating himself with the immensely controversial Adelson: 10 million dollars - the amount Adelson and his wife have contributed to the super Pac supporting Romney, Restore Our Future.
The Adelsons are the largest donors to the Romney PAC. They have providing just over 12 percent of the $82.2 million Restore Our Future has raised so far. Romney's personal wealth is an estimated $250 million, but the former governor is determined not to self-finance his quest for the presidency.
Adelson's cash is more than enough to persuade Romney to swallow his pride and embrace the man who, earlier in the campaign, spent millions on a different candidate. It was Adelson who financed Newt Gingrich's populist attack ads, which portrayed Romney, the former C.E.O. of Bain Capital, as a "predatory capitalist." The Adelson-financed attacks were instrumental in bringing about Romney's defeat in the South Carolina primary in January and they laid the groundwork for the attacks Obama is subjecting Romney to now.
The source of Adelson's huge campaign contributions would appear to create a conflict with Romney's Mormon convictions. The official website of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints states: "The Church opposes gambling in any form, including government-sponsored lotteries."
What Mormons Believe, an unofficial web site explicating the positions of the Church declares:
The Mormon Church has always opposed gambling in every form, including government-sponsored lotteries. Mormon prophets and leaders have counseled the members over time, to avoid gambling of any type. Doing so, leads one away from righteousness and into the hands of Satan. The Mormon belief is that it is an addictive behavior and leads only to destructive habits and practices. It undermines the value of work and motivates one to think that they can get something for nothing. In time, the gambler will deny themselves, as well as their family the basic needs of life. They will oft times steal from others to finance their addiction, which in turn leads to stealing, robbery, etc.
Adelson is number eight on the Forbes 400, a list of the 400 richest people in America, with a fortune of $21.5 billion amassed largely through an international collection of gambling venues.
Romney has been fortunate that the reporting on the inquiries into Adelson's finances by the S.E.C. and the Justice Department has been limited in scope. Most coverage of Adelson's contributions has not included any reference to either of these investigations.
Much of the most interesting reporting on the investigations has been done by ProPublica, working jointly with "Frontline" and the Investigative Reporting Program of the University of California at Berkeley.
The majority of the allegations against Adelson emerged in connection with an ongoing wrongful dismissal lawsuit against Sands filed in 2010 by Steven Jacobs, former C.E.O. of Sands China. Emails and other documents posted by ProPublica on July 16 raised questions about the role of Leonel Alves, a legislator and lawyer in Macau who was hired as an outside counsel to Las Vegas Sands.
These emails revealed concerns among Adelson's legal advisers that a large payment for legal services to Alves would set off warning bells in the sections of the Securities and Exchange Commission and Justice Department that watch out for violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
The anti-bribery provisions of the F.C.P.A., according to the Department of Justice, "make it unlawful for a U.S. person, and certain foreign issuers of securities, to make a corrupt payment to a foreign official for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business for or with, or directing business to, any person." Alves is a member of the local Macau legislature, serves on a 10-member council that advises Macau's chief executive, and is a member of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, which advises the government of China.
In a Sept. 30, 2009 email, Alves wrote to Jacobs that at the 60th anniversary of the People's Republic of China "someone high ranking in Beijing approached me before the official dinner and invited me 2 handle issues related to the Venetian's projects in Macau." Alves wrote Jacobs, "There is an amount to be agreed by Mr. Adelson to settle the 2 issues. The amount to be paid to resolve the serviced apartments issue will be paid to a mutually accepted escrow agent and delivered to the gentleman upon official approval in the Official Gazette authorizing the sale of the serviced apartment."
On Dec. 10, 2009, in another email to Jacobs, Alves wrote that he was returning to Beijing the next day and "will have chance to talk with my friends there." Alves warned, however, that "what they request is extremely expensive (US300 m, which includes closing the Taiwanese case)."
It is not clear from the email what was done about the request for $300 million.
In a separate matter, Jacobs, in a March 11, 2010 email to Al Gonzalez, who was then general counsel at Las Vegas Sands, said that he had told Alves that a bill for services at three times the normal rate could not be paid in full because "we were worried that there could be F.C.P.A. issues related to this." Roughly three weeks later, Jacobs wrote, "I was instructed by SGA [Adelson's initials] and MAL [Michael A. Leven, president of Las Vegas Sands] to pay and close out the matter," ProPublica, Frontline and Berkeley investigators disclosed.
The next day, March 12, 2010, Gonzalez wrote back to Jacobs: "You know from various conversations we've had and emails we've exchanged that I did not believe it appropriate to pay LA [Leonel Alves] three times his normal rates," before adding, "I wish you would have advised me so I could have intervened."
A month later, in April of 2010, Gonzalez resigned as general counsel to Sands. On July 23, Sands fired Jacobs as C.E.O. of Sands China, and soon the battleground shifted to the courts.
Ron Reese, Sands vice president for public relations, declined to comment, but pointed me to stories of past denials of wrongdoing by company officials, including Adelson. On March 28, Adelson declared in a speech in Macau that the Jacobs suit "is pure threatening, blackmailing and extortion. That is what it is all about." Speaking at the J.P. Morgan Gaming, Lodging, Restaurant & Leisure Management Access Forum, Adelson said:
When the smoke clears, I am 1,000 percent positive that there won't be any fire below it. What they will find is a foundation of lies and fabrications that were designed for the sole purpose of trying to make a settlement for a lot more money than what he [Jacobs] felt he was entitled to.
The Adelson-Jacobs feud turned up hotly-disputed allegations even more out of sync with Romney's religious and moral convictions after Jacobs filed a request for documents charging that Adelson had initiated a "prostitution strategy" to draw customers to the Macau facilities. The Jacobs filing read:
As background, shortly after my arrival to Macau in May 2009, I launched "Operation Clean Sweep," designed to rid the casino floor of loan sharks and prostitution. This project was met with concern as L.V.S.C. Senior Executives informed me that the prior prostitution strategy has been personally approved by Adelson.
Adelson denied the allegation, telling Forbes: "Would I jeopardize being the 7th richest man in the US and the 14th or 15th richest person in the world to push prostitution? For what? I'm already the most profitable company in consumer services ever. What do I have to win?"
By July 20, the situation got even messier. Adelson sued Jacobs in Florida for defamation for making statements that "impugn Mr. Adelson's integrity and harm his reputation." In addition, Adelson threatened to sue the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee for issuing press releases linking Adelson's contributions to "Chinese prostitution money."
On August 2, the D.C.C.C. backtracked, publicly declaring "In press statements issued on June 29 and July 2, 2012, the D.C.C.C. made unsubstantiated allegations that attacked Sheldon Adelson, a supporter of the opposing party." The D.C.C.C. said, "This was wrong. The statements were untrue and unfair, and we retract them."
On the legal front, Nevada District Court Judge Elizabeth Gonzalez will hold a hearing on August 30 to determine whether Las Vegas Sands Corp withheld key documents in Jacobs' wrongful termination case.
It would be interesting to know what Romney has to say about Adelson's gambling business and his difficulties with the S.E.C., the Justice Department and the D.C.C.C., but Romney's campaign did not respond to repeated requests for comment.
The toughest charges leveled against Romney as a politician have been distinctly personal: that he lacks authenticity; that he is "a phony"; that "there are two Mitt Romneys"; that he is duplicitous; that he is a hypocrite and a flip-flopper, even on the most serious issues.
Romney is currently polling ahead of Obama on a number of key questions. Voters prefer Romney's approach to the deficit (51-41), jobs (50-44) and taxes (49-45). But when it comes to questions of character, Obama crushes Romney: on likability (60-30); on understanding the problems faced in voters' daily lives (50-39); and on honesty and trustworthiness, two issues that go to the heart of Romney's problems, Obama holds an 8 point advantage (47-39).
Perhaps the least effective tools with which to address this liability are the caution and secretiveness that have become Romney's trademarks. At a minimum, Romney could tell us how he reconciles the values he says he stands for with the basis on which Adelson's fortune is built.

        
The Virtues of the Super PAC
        
Culture Warriors Don't Win
        
The Renegade Republicans
        
The Hypocrite in Everyone Else
        
Cash and Carry

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CASINOS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); GAMING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (86%); SUBPOENAS (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); BRIBERY (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); CORRUPTION (70%); ACCOUNTING (70%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (65%); MONEY LAUNDERING (64%) casinos; gambling; Mitt Romney; Newt Gingrich; Sands; Sheldon Adelson; Adelson, Sheldon G; Jacobs, Steven Craig; Romney, Mitt; Campaign Finance; Casinos; Presidential Election of 2012; Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee; Las Vegas Sands Corp; ProPublica; Restore Our Future; Sands China

COMPANY: LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP (83%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%) Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee; Las Vegas Sands Corp; ProPublica; Restore Our Future; Sands China

TICKER: LVS (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (83%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (83%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); SHELDON G ADELSON (91%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%); BARACK OBAMA (73%) Adelson, Sheldon G; Jacobs, Steven Craig; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (55%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



221 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Aug. 6: Pace of Presidential Polling Has Slowed Considerably From 2008

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: By this point in 2008, it would have been extremely unusual to not have any new state polls out on a given weekday, as happened on Monday. 

 BODY:
As of 5 p.m. Monday, there were no new presidential polls out except for the two national tracking polls from Rasmussen Reports and Gallup. The Rasmussen numbers moved a tick toward President Obama, but it's just not worth making much of a one-day shift in a tracking poll (a sustained shift over a week or longer would be more interesting). 
At the same time, there were no important economic reports out, so it was basically a news-less day from the standpoint of our forecast, which was essentially unchanged.
But sometimes, the absence of news is news itself. 
My offhand impression has been that the pace of presidential polling has been much slower than in 2008: that by this point in 2008, for instance, it would have been extremely unusual to not have any new state polls out on a given weekday, as happened on Monday.
It turns out that this is not just my imagination. I looked up the numbers - and the pace of polling has fallen quite dramatically from four years ago.
The table below lists the number of state-level general election polls by month in both the 2008 and the 2012 cycles. It includes only polls of the matchup between Mr. Obama and John McCain in 2008, and only the polls of the matchup between Mr. Obama and Mitt Romney this year. So we're not inflating the numbers by including matchups that turned out to be hypothetical, like Mr. McCain against Hillary Rodham Clinton.
From January through July 2008, there were 558 state polls released that tested the Obama-McCain horse race. By contrast, there were only 329 through the same date this year - about a 40 percent decline.
What's causing the reduction? 
Austerity at news media companies is undoubtedly a part of the problem. Polling isn't free, nor is it particularly cheap - at least when it's done well.
Indeed, polling is becoming more expensive because fewer people are picking up the phone and responding to surveys. You have to churn through a lot more calls to get the same number of completed interviews.
More Americans are not reachable on landlines at all. Failing to place phone calls to the roughly one-third of Americans who rely solely on cellphones is becoming less and less acceptable - but calls to cellphones add to the expense of polling.
And let's face it: This election is simply much less interesting to the average consumer than 2008 was. So both the demand-side and the supply-side have been affected.
Another, smaller factor: A couple of polling companies that were fairly prolific in 2008, Strategic Vision and Research 2000, have failed to release any polls this year, probably because they are suspected - with solid evidence, in my view - of having falsified poll numbers. Still, even if you exclude data from those companies, there were 522 state polls released from January through July 2008 - considerably more than this year.
It's not as though we have no idea about what's going on in the election. The number of national polls hasn't dropped off as much. And even if there have been "only" 300 or so state polls released so far this year, that's still a fair amount of data.
But there are other ways in which the patchier data is more noticeable to election junkies and to polling analysts. We'll sometimes go several weeks between polls even in key swing states, which makes it harder to detect shifts resulting from, say, a new burst of advertising in a state, or a new campaign strategy. 
Granted, people tend to over-interpret changes in the state numbers. For the most part, you should be suspicious when there's polling movement in one state that isn't reflected in similar states, or in the national numbers. But this year, it takes a little longer to tell whether a poll is a part of a pattern, or an outlier.
And there is one whole group of states that have scarcely been polled. Pretty much every state that might be described as "solid Republican" has not been polled much if at all - with the odd exception of North Dakota, which gets polled a fair amount because of its competitive Senate race.
Sure, states like Texas and Georgia do not matter much to the electoral math. But they have fairly large populations, so the numbers there have a fair amount of effect on the popular vote. That, in turn, helps us to understand the relationship between state polls and national polls - which sometimes have seemed to tell different stories about the status of the campaign this year.
On the off-chance that Mr. Obama is competitive in a quirky red state like Alaska - and to be sure, those chances are extremely remote - we wouldn't have any way of knowing it. There have been no polls in that state any time recently.
The good news is that the pace of state polling is almost certain to pick up after the party conventions. In 2008, there were 90 state polls released in July, and 109 in August - but that number exploded to 384 in September, and 598 in October.
We probably don't need five new polls of Iowa or Colorado every week, as we were getting toward the end of 2008. At some point, one does encounter diminishing returns.
But instead of getting five polls in one week in Iowa, so far this year we've been getting only one poll there every five weeks. Our analysis of the race will become a lot more robust as the polling pace picks up.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%) projection update

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



222 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: The Arctic Drilling Countdown

BYLINE: JOHN M. BRODER


HIGHLIGHT: The interior secretary is on his way to Alaska, but Obama administration officials caution that this doesn't mean that permits are imminent for Shell. 

 BODY:
 After several weeks of delays linked to mechanical problems and persistent sea ice, Shell is completing its final preparations for drilling in the Arctic Ocean, company officials said Monday. The company hopes over the next several days to demonstrate to regulators that its oil spill containment equipment is ready and to receive clearance from the Environmental Protection Agency to operate its drill ships without running afoul of air pollution laws.
 Shell hopes to get the final green light from regulators as early as next week.
 With the window for drilling narrowing, the secretary of the interior, Ken Salazar, is planning to travel to Alaska later this week to be briefed on Shell's drilling and safety plans and to consult with Native Alaskans about their concerns about the impact of oil development on wildlife and the local economy. The secretary also intends to discuss other energy issues and the management of public lands and waters, agency officials said.
 Mr. Salazar has said that he anticipates a final decision on Shell's plans by mid-August, which would correspond with the end of his planned trip to Alaska. But Interior officials stressed that the timing of his visit does not mean that Shell's final drilling permits have been approved or that he will be announcing the beginning of their drilling program. They also noted that this was Mr. Salazar's fourth trip to Alaska as interior secretary and that he preferred to visit the state during the summer months. Something about the extra-long days, presumably.

 Interior officials said they would provide additional information about the secretary's Alaska itinerary in the next few days.
 Shell announced last week that it is scaling back its drilling plans from five proposed wells in the Chukchi and Beaufort Seas to just two. Most of the company's fleet is currently docked in Dutch Harbor, Alaska, awaiting the final go-ahead from Interior to begin drilling. Two vessels headed to the company's prospect in the Chukchi late last week to prepare the site for the arrival of the drill ship Noble Discoverer.
Under terms of its exploration permits from the Interior Department, Shell must cease operations by Sept. 24 in hydrocarbon-bearing zones in the Chukchi and by Oct. 31 in the Beaufort. Additionally, the company must shut down its rigs during the whale migration season. 
Curtis Smith, a Shell spokesman, said that even with a narrowed drilling window, the company expected to gain valuable data about oil and gas formations beneath the sea and the impacts of weather, currents and marine mammals on exploration activity. 
 "We are still confident we can accomplish meaningful work in 2012, and that's our goal," Mr. Smith said.

        
Challenges Ahead on Arctic Drilling
        
Minimizing the Risk of a Blowout
        
Salazar on Parks, Arctic Drilling and Clean Energy
        
Shell Seeks to Weaken Air Rules for Arctic Drilling
        
Interior Issues Draft Study on Atlantic Drilling

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); MARINE MAMMALS (89%); OCEANS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); MARINE BIOLOGY (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); APPROVALS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); OIL SPILLS (77%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); MAMMALS (76%); AIR POLLUTION (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (68%) arctic; Beaufort Sea; Chukchi Sea; Department of Interior; Ken Salazar; offshore oil drilling; shell; Salazar, Ken; Accidents and Safety; Offshore Drilling and Exploration; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Interior Department; Royal Dutch Shell Plc; Alaska; Arctic Ocean; Arctic Regions; Royal Dutch Shell Plc|RDS.A|NYSE

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Interior Department; Royal Dutch Shell Plc

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (85%); RDSA (AMS) (85%); RDS.B (NYSE) (85%); RDS.A (NYSE) (85%) Royal Dutch Shell Plc; RDS.A; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (85%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%)

PERSON: KEN SALAZAR (90%); BARACK OBAMA (50%) Salazar, Ken

GEOGRAPHIC: ARCTIC OCEAN (94%); ALASKA, USA (94%) ARCTIC (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) Alaska; Arctic Ocean; Arctic Regions

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



223 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: Quick Lunge for a Lifeline Helped Knight Capital Skirt Collapse

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS and NATHANIEL POPPER


HIGHLIGHT: Knight Capital was given a $400 million shot in the arm by a varied group of investors as it narrowly avoided filing for bankruptcy. 

 BODY:
When Thomas M. Joyce arrived at Knight Capital's Jersey City offices on Sunday, the fate of his company and the legacy of his long Wall Street career were in jeopardy. His lawyers were preparing a potential bankruptcy filing throughout the day, according to people briefed on the matter, and the company's last hope rested with an eclectic group of investors.
But by 9 p.m., when Mr. Joyce departed for home while lawyers reached a deal over a meal of Chinese food, the crisis was largely contained. The Knight Capital Group, the company that Mr. Joyce nurtured into one of the most powerful brokerage firms on Wall Street, had just survived the most harrowing week in its 17-year history.
Hobbled by recent knee surgery and haggard from several sleepless nights, Mr. Joyce on Monday announced that Knight Capital had struck a $400 million deal with the group of investors, staving off collapse after a devastating trading mishap. 
 The rescue package, which was assembled and led by the Jefferies Group, includes investments from TD Ameritrade and the Blackstone Group. Getco, a high-speed trading firm, and the investment bank Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, also invested.
The group appears poised to cash in on the deal. The investors are afforded the right to buy more than 260 million shares, or 73 percent of the firm, at $1.50 a piece. Before the trading blunder, the firm's shares traded above $10.
Under the terms of the deal, Knight will also expand its board by adding three new members from the investor group. Jefferies, which led the group with a $125 million investment, will take one seat.
"The array of participants in this capital infusion underscores Knight's critical role in the capital markets," Mr. Joyce, the firm's chairman and chief executive, said on Monday.
The lifeline capped a rapid recovery for a firm that, just days ago, was on the brink of collapse.
On Wednesday, Knight Capital sustained a $440 million trading loss stemming from a technology error that generated erroneous orders to buy shares of major stocks. The orders affected the shares of 148 companies, including Ford Motor, RadioShack and American Airlines, sending the markets into upheaval.
Despite the embarrassing setback, investors saw plenty of potential in Knight, a sharp contrast from times when other Wall Street firms - like Lehman Brothers and more recently, MF Global - faced extinction.
Knight, stumbling at a healthier time for the financial industry, had more choices. Mr. Joyce fielded about 100 phone calls from potential buyers, who coveted Knight's giant presence in the profitable electronic trading game. In the first half of the year, Knight accounted for 11 percent of all stock trading in the United States.
Still, the firm faces significant challenges. A company built on the strength of its technological prowess, Knight suffered a major electronic mishap that rattled investor confidence.
And the deal comes at a cost as it will significantly dilute existing shareholders of the company. Shares of Knight Capital fell more than 24 percent on Monday.
Most of the losses will be borne by mutual funds that owned 54 percent of Knight's outstanding shares before the trading errors, according to data from Morningstar. Fidelity and its mutual funds were the largest owners of Knight shares, holding 15 percent of the company, the fund manager reported in its most recent filings.
But the individual who has lost the most money since the problems last Wednesday may be Mr. Joyce. A longtime trader who rose to prominence at Merrill Lynch and at the Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, his 1.2 million shares dropped in value by about $9 million from last Wednesday to Monday.
Knight Capital also faces heavy regulatory scrutiny. The Securities and Exchange Commission is examining potential legal violations as it pieces together the firm's missteps.
The New York Stock Exchange said on Monday it "temporarily" reassigned the firm's market-making responsibilities for more than 600 securities to Getco, the trading firm that also invested in Knight. Market makers buy and sell securities on behalf of clients.
The problems for Knight Capital began on Wednesday when the New York Stock Exchange's opening bell rang. The Exchange opened a new trading platform - and Knight had tweaked its computer coding to push itself onto the system then.
But when Knight's new system went live, the firm "experienced a human error and/or a technology malfunction," the firm explained in a regulatory filing on Monday.
Chaos ensued. The error caused Knight to place unauthorized offers to buy and sell shares of big American companies, driving up the volume of trading and causing a stir among traders.
Mr. Joyce, who had knee surgery that week, went into work on crutches.
Knight later had to sell the stocks that it accidentally bought, prompting the $440 million loss. The loss would drain Knight's capital cushion and cause "liquidity pressures," the firm said in the filing.
The firm also consulted restructuring lawyers at Kirkland & Ellis on a potential Chapter 11 filing, according to people with direct knowledge of the matter who did not want to be identified because the negotiations were not public. The lawyers worked on the filing until about 4 a.m. on Monday, when a deal was mostly done.
As the firm's health soured, the S.E.C. kept a closer watch. The agency dispatched officials to the firm's Jersey City offices. In the agency's Washington headquarters, senior officials worked through the night in offices without air-conditioning to monitor the firm's liquidity position. The office's air-conditioning bad been programmed to shut off before midnight as an energy-saving measure.
But events soon turned in the firm's favor. Knight secured emergency short-term financing that allowed it to operate on Friday. Some of the firm's biggest customers, including Scottrade, said they had resumed doing business with Knight.
Investor interest was heating up, too. Citadel, a big hedge fund and trading firm, was interested in buying portions of the company. Jefferies was aiming to build a coalition of investors. By Friday night, Knight aligned with Jefferies, accelerating negotiations into the weekend.
Jefferies, which signed a document outlining the terms of the deal on Saturday night, had little trouble recruiting other investors. TD Ameritrade, the online brokerage house, ramped up its interest on Saturday after concluding the terms of the deal were reasonable, according to the people briefed on the matter.
One of the last to join was Blackstone, though it was well aware of Knight's business. The private equity company first approached Knight about a potential takeover just months ago, a person briefed on the matter said. Blackstone's chief financial officer, Laurence Tosi, knew Mr. Joyce from their days together at Merrill Lynch.
On Sunday, the deal teams were split into various locations. Some investors, including TD Ameritrade, remained with Mr. Joyce in Jersey City poring over Knight's documents. Others huddled at the Manhattan offices of White & Case, the law firm representing Jefferies in the deal.
In the evening hours, a deal looked promising. While firms typically need a shareholder vote to bless such a deal, the exchange allowed Knight to proceed because the firm's survival was at stake. The S.E.C. was monitoring Knight's compliance with capital rules. Robert W. Cook, the head of the agency's division of trading and markets, spent his birthday on Sunday tracking the final stages of the deal.
By 9 p.m., when Mr. Joyce left his offices, the deal was all but signed.
Jefferies would invest $125 million, Blackstone and Getco would spend $87.5 million and TD Ameritrade contributed $40 million. The payments came in waves over the next several hours, with the last few dollars rolling in just before the trading opened on Monday morning.

        
As Knight Capital Gains a Lifeline, It Loses Market-Making Duties
        
Knight Capital Reaches Rescue Deal With Investor Group

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SECURITIES TRADING (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (68%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Blackstone Group; Getco; Jefferies Group; Knight Capital Group; Stifel Nicolaus & Company; TD Ameritrade; Joyce, Thomas M; Banking and Financial Institutions; High-Frequency and Flash Trading; Stocks and Bonds; Citadel Investment Group; Jefferies Group Inc; Knight Capital Group Inc; New York Stock Exchange; TD Ameritrade Holding Corp; The Blackstone Group; Jefferies Group Inc|JEF|NYSE; Knight Capital Group Inc|KCG|NYSE; The Blackstone Group|BX|NYSE; Financial Services; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: KNIGHT CAPITAL GROUP INC (74%); STIFEL NICOLAUS & CO INC (68%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); JEFFERIES GROUP INC (55%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (55%); TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (55%); FORD MOTOR CO (53%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (52%); RADIOSHACK CORP (52%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Citadel Investment Group; Jefferies Group Inc; Knight Capital Group Inc; New York Stock Exchange; TD Ameritrade Holding Corp; The Blackstone Group

TICKER: KCG (PAR) (74%); KCG (NYSE) (74%); JEF (NYSE) (55%); BX (NYSE) (55%); AMTD (NYSE) (55%); FORDP (PAR) (53%); F (NYSE) (53%); RSH (NYSE) (52%) Jefferies Group Inc; JEF; NYSE; Jefferies Group Inc; JEF; NYSE; Knight Capital Group Inc; KCG; NYSE; Jefferies Group Inc; JEF; NYSE; Knight Capital Group Inc; KCG; NYSE; The Blackstone Group; BX; NYSE

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (74%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (74%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (74%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (52%)

PERSON: Joyce, Thomas M

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2012



224 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Why Are Investors Fleeing Equities? Hint: It's Not the Computers

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Analysts cite trading blunders as the reason billions of dollars are flowing out of the stock market, but there might be a simpler reason: a lack of trust. 

 BODY:
Let's stop with the excuses.
You've no doubt been reading a lot about a "crisis of confidence" on Wall Street in recent days after software problems at a big trading firm sent the stock market, briefly, into a tizzy.
Everyone is hyperventilating at the errant trades at the Knight Capital Group - suggesting, in the words of Arthur Levitt, that these malfunctions "have scared the hell out of investors." The problems at the firm were immediately lumped together with Facebook's glitch-filled initial public offering, the flash crash of 2010 and the rescinded public offering of BATS Global Markets, among others. 
Apparently - if the experts are to be believed - these computer errors are the reason "investors are fleeing the markets like never before," Dennis Kelleher, president of Better Markets, told The Los Angeles Times. Dozens of articles about the trading blunder included some form of that contention, using statistics showing that $130 billion or more had been withdrawn from mutual funds over the last year or so.
Let me offer a more straightforward explanation of why investors have left the stock market: it has been a losing proposition. An entire generation of investors hasn't made a buck.
"The cult of equity is dying," Bill Gross, the founder of Pimco, wrote in his monthly letter last week. 
"Like a once bright green aspen turning to subtle shades of yellow then red in the Colorado fall, investors' impressions of 'stocks for the long run' or any run have mellowed as well," Mr. Gross wrote. His letter came after he had sent a Twitter post that read: "Boomers can't take risk. Gen X and Y believe in Facebook but not its stock. Gen Z has no money."
(Mr. Gross, who manages the largest bond fund in the world, started a stock fund several years ago, too, so he has a vested interest in seeing stocks succeed for his clients.)
This is not to say that Knight Capital's software debacle is helping instill confidence in investors. But it's doubtful it would make a Top 10 list of reasons for investors to flee. 
So why are so many investors sitting on their hands? The unemployment crisis, the European debt crisis and the looming fiscal-cliff crisis, to name just a few reasons. Economic growth is slowing, not just in the United States but in China, too.
Those are the same reasons that chief executives and boards of American companies are sitting on $2 trillion in cash and not investing in their own businesses. They are scared, rightly or wrongly, about the future. (It should be noted that some of the most skilled investors recommend staying in the game during such times. Warren Buffett famously advised that investors "should try to be fearful when others are greedy and greedy only when others are fearful." But it doesn't seem like that advice is being followed.)
Even the hedge fund titan Louis M. Bacon has been so humbled by the stock market thathe returned $2 billion to his investors last week rather than risk losing it.
None of these fundamental issues have anything to do with a computer that ran amok or a trade order mistakenly entered by a fat finger.
Blaming computers is not a new phenomenon. In 1988, months after the 1987 crash, The New York Times explained that small investors shared a "fear of being whip-sawed by program trading." 
"I think everybody is concerned about the flight of the small investor - the S.E.C., the exchanges, everyone," Howard L. Kramer, assistant director of the Securities and Exchange Commission's division of market regulation, said in another article, also in 1988. 
Here are the numbers today: About $171 billion has flowed out of mutual funds over the last year, according to the Investment Company Institute, which tracks mutual fund data. Where has all that money gone?
Bonds. About $208 billion has flowed into the bond market over the same period, according to numbers from the I.C.I.
The fact that so few long-term investors are in the stock market has only worsened the volatility, since it often seems as if the only people who are trading stocks are the professionals.
Which brings us back to the "crisis of confidence." This does exist among investors, but they are not focused on how computers are making the markets go haywire. Rather, they are concerned about the future of the economy and, yes, trust.
Individuals are worried that it's hard to make the right bet and worried that the market is rigged against them. Much of this is an outgrowth of woes of Wall Street's own making, like insider trading cases or market manipulation scandals. Those situations are partly why individual investors don't believe they stand a chance against the professionals.
Consider this: Of 878 students at 18 high schools across 11 different states surveyed by the Financial Literacy Group, three-quarters of them said they agreed with this statement: "The stock market is rigged mostly to benefit greedy Wall Street bankers."
So for now, it seems, trading firms don't just need to throw out their electronic trading systems or bring in more regulators to oversee their stock executions. They need the country to get a shot in the arm to address its economic problems, and they need the public to have faith in the long term.
Instead of pointing the blame at one incident or another, look at the fundamentals.

        
A Bond King at a Crossroad
        
Casting Doubt on Single-Trade Spark in Flash Crash

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SECURITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); SOFTWARE DEFECTS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); BOND FUNDS (76%); GENERATION Z (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); GENERATION X (72%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (72%); INSIDER TRADING (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); EURO CRISIS (50%) Bill Gross; Flash Crash; Insider Trading; Knight Capital Group; Pimco; Stocks and Bonds (Des);; Buffett, Warren E; Gross, William H; High-Frequency and Flash Trading; Stocks and Bonds; DealBook Column; Financial Services; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (69%); KNIGHT CAPITAL GROUP INC (58%); BATS GLOBAL MARKETS INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: KCG (PAR) (58%); KCG (NYSE) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (90%); WARREN BUFFETT (60%) Buffett, Warren E; Gross, William H

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2012



225 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; SIDEBAR; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Blogger Who Gives Advice Resists a State's: Get a License

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Steve Cooksey eats what he calls a cave man diet -- lots of meat and greens, no bread or pasta. He says it has helped him conquer life-threatening diabetes.But when he wrote about his experiences and offered advice on his Web site, officials in North Carolina said he was breaking the law by ''providing nutrition care services without a license.''
Charla M. Burill, the executive director of the North Carolina Board of Dietetics/Nutrition, called Mr. Cooksey in January to tell him so. The conversation was by all accounts civil, and Ms. Burill had a state law on her side. 
About a week after they talked, Ms. Burill sent Mr. Cooksey pages from his site liberally annotated in red ink. She said that ''writing a blog on your beliefs'' was fine. But Mr. Cooksey's Dear Abby-style advice column was unlawful. So was a paid life-coaching service.
''You are no longer just providing information when you do this,'' she wrote of the column and the service. ''You are assessing and counseling, both of which require a license.''
Indeed, a North Carolina law says that ''assessing the nutritional needs of individuals and groups'' without a license is a crime. Many other states license nutritionists and dietitians, but the North Carolina law seems to be among the stricter ones.
In her markup of Mr. Cooksey's site, Ms. Burill underlined examples of unlawful advice, including this one: ''I do suggest that your friend eat as I do and exercise the best they can.''
Mr. Cooksey reluctantly made the requested changes. Then he filed a lawsuit in Federal District Court in Charlotte, N.C., saying his First Amendment rights had been violated.
''Cooksey's advice,'' his lawyers wrote, ''ultimately amounts to recommendations about what to buy at the grocery store -- more steaks and avocados and less pasta, for example.''
''The First Amendment simply does not allow North Carolina to criminalize something as commonplace as advice about diet,'' they added.
Mr. Cooksey is represented by the Institute for Justice, a libertarian group that often takes issue with employment licensing laws, usually on the ground that they interfere with economic competition. In Mr. Cooksey's case, it also argues that the North Carolina law interferes with the marketplace of ideas.
Jeff Rowes, one of Mr. Cooksey's lawyers, said there should be only a limited role for government regulation of speech about food.
It is appropriate, he said, to license people who work in clinical or institutional settings like hospitals, prisons and schools. He added that there are some professional relationships, involving ''people who have genuinely surrendered their judgment'' to an expert, where licensing may be appropriate.
In general, though, he said, ''people are allowed to give other people advice.''
Karen Gale of Indiana said she was pleased with the advice she received from Mr. Cooksey after getting to know him on Facebook. ''I am in disbelief that in the United States it is against the law for a friend to give another friend uncompensated advice about what food to eat,'' she said in a sworn statement filed in the case.
In his lawsuit, Mr. Cooksey, a 51-year-old service manager at a medical equipment company, said that forbidding his ''personal, ongoing, uncompensated mentorship of Karen Gale and other friends like her is an unconstitutional prohibition on something that Americans have done since the inception of the United States: share advice among friends, acquaintances, readers or family about what is the healthiest way to eat.''
His defense of selling that same advice was a little less ringing, though he said the First Amendment protected that, too.
Ms. Burill declined to comment, and one of her lawyers directed me to the papers the North Carolina board has filed in court. The board has also posted a statement on its Web site ''concerning Steve Cooksey, an unlicensed person.''
In the statement, the board said it had not harassed Mr. Cooksey or threatened to shut down his site. It said that it had never rendered a formal decision, and that its complaint was closed.
''As with all complaints,'' Ms. Burill wrote to Mr. Cooksey in April, ''the board reserves the right to continue to monitor this situation.''
The case is, in the words of Justice Byron R. White in a 1985 concurrence in a United States Supreme Court case about investment newsletters, ''a collision between the power of government to license and regulate those who would pursue a profession or vocation and the rights of freedom of speech and of the press guaranteed by the First Amendment.''
Justice White, joined by two other justices, proposed a distinction that may help the board's side of the argument. He said the government may regulate personalized advice from someone ''who takes the affairs of a client personally in hand and purports to exercise judgment on behalf of the client in the light of the client's individual needs and circumstances.''
But it is not clear that one-on-one advice is the right place to draw the constitutional line.
''So long as knowledge is potentially relevant to the formation of public opinion, I do not see in principle why it should constitutionally matter whether it is distributed to one person or to a thousand,'' Robert C. Post, dean of Yale Law School, wrote in a recent book, ''Democracy, Expertise, Academic Freedom.''
In an interview, Mr. Cooksey said he had an unorthodox litigation strategy. ''I hope we lose in the first round,'' he said. ''I hope we go to the Supreme Court. Our blog traffic has gone through the roof.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUTRITION (92%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (89%); LICENSES & PERMITS (89%); LIFE COACHING (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (76%); LAWYERS (76%); ADVICE COLUMNS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); DIABETES (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



226 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Libor, Naked and Exposed

BYLINE: By GARY GENSLER. 
Gary Gensler is the chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.

 BODY:
WashingtonAMERICANS who save for the future, use credit cards or borrow money for tuition, cars and homes deserve assurance that the interest rates on their savings and loans are set in a reliable and honest way.
That's why the revelation that the British bank Barclays attempted to manipulate the London interbank offered rate, or Libor -- one of the benchmark rates used to determine the cost of borrowing around the world -- is so disturbing. But the Barclays case isn't only about misconduct by large financial institutions. It also raises questions about the reliability and accuracy of these key interest rates, which are largely determined by the private sector, without significant government oversight.
When you save money in a money market fund or short-term bond fund, or take out a mortgage or a small-business loan, the rate you receive or pay is often based, directly or indirectly, on Libor. It's the reference rate for nearly half of adjustable-rate mortgages in the United States; for about 70 percent of the American futures market; and for a majority of the American swaps market, where businesses hedge risks from changes in interest rates. 
Libor is supposed to be the average rate at which the largest banks honestly believe they can borrow from one another unsecured (that is, without posting collateral). Libor was set up in the 1980s when banks regularly made loans to other banks on that basis.
However, the number of banks willing to lend to one another on such terms has been sharply reduced because of economic turmoil, including the 2008 global financial crisis, the European debt crisis that began in 2010, and the downgrading of large banks' credit ratings this year.
Banks have shifted toward secured borrowing and, on occasion, borrowing from central banks like the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank. As Mervyn King, the governor of the Bank of England, said of Libor in 2008: ''It is, in many ways, the rate at which banks do not lend to each other.''
These changes in the markets raise questions about the integrity of this important benchmark.
First, why is Libor so different from another benchmark interest rate for borrowing in United States dollars -- Euribor, or euro interbank offered rate? Both rates are calculated on the basis of banks' answers to roughly the same question. For Libor, a bank is asked at what rate it thinks it can borrow, while for Euribor, a bank is asked at what rate it thinks other banks are able to borrow. And yet the Euribor for dollar borrowings is about twice as high as the comparable Libor.
Second, why have Libor and other benchmark rates typically not been aligned, since 2008, with the borrowing rates that would be implied by foreign exchange markets? A long-established financial theory known as interest rate parity says that the difference in interest rates between two countries should be roughly in line with the expected change in exchange rates between the countries' currencies. (If it isn't, that opens an opportunity for arbitrage, the practice of taking advantage of price differences.)
Until 2007, as the theory predicted, the difference between the borrowing rate in one currency and the lending rate in another could typically be derived from foreign currency exchange rates. In the last few years, that hasn't been the case, and this divergence between theory and practice has yet to be adequately explained.
Third, why is the volatility of the dollar-denominated Libor so much lower than the volatility of other short-term credit market rates? Just like stocks and bonds, short-term interest rates experience a certain volatility. But Libor has less severe swings than comparable rates.
In addition, the variation in rates that some banks submit to the British Bankers' Association -- the private group that oversees Libor -- don't seem to match the variation in the rates for their credit default swaps (financial instruments that are similar to insurance and are one measure of a bank's credit risk). There have been times when the swap rates have widened for particular banks (suggesting a growing credit risk) even as their Libor submissions have remained stable (suggesting that the banks' borrowing costs haven't changed).
Anyone saving or borrowing for the future has a real stake in the integrity of Libor and in the answers to these questions.
When the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which oversees derivatives markets, began looking into interest-rate setting in 2008, we were guided not only by questions about the decline of actual unsecured lending among banks, the supposed basis of Libor, but also by our founding statute, the Commodity Exchange Act. The law prohibits attempts to manipulate and falsely report information that tends to affect the price of a commodity -- including interest rates like Libor.
Markets work best when benchmark rates are based on observable transactions. The public is shortchanged if Libor, the emperor of rates, is not clothed in such transactions.
One solution might be to use other benchmark rates -- like the overnight index swaps rate, which is tied to the rate at which banks lend to one another overnight -- that are based on real transactions. There are also benchmark rates based on actual short-term secured financings (loans in which collateral is pledged) between banks and other financial institutions.
For any new or revised benchmark to be broadly accepted by the financial markets, borrowers, lenders and hedgers who rely on Libor would benefit from a process for an orderly transition.
The Barclays case demonstrates that Libor has become more vulnerable to misconduct. It's time for a new or revised benchmark -- an emperor clothed in actual, observable market transactions -- to restore the confidence of Americans that the rates at which they borrow and lend money are set honestly and transparently.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (96%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); EURO (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); FUTURES (76%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (75%); INTERBANK LENDING (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BONDS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (73%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); MISCONDUCT (71%); BOND FUNDS (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); EURO CRISIS (63%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (64%); BANK OF ENGLAND (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



227 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; GOTHAM; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: In the Financial Industry, a Less Scrupulous Class of Lawbreaker

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL. 
E-mail: powellm@nytimes.com; Twitter: @powellnyt

 BODY:
To sit on the bench in Manhattan Criminal Court is to feel the embarrassment that comes with watching fellow New Yorkers get deeply humbled.A bailiff calls out names and charges: disorderly conduct, possession of marijuana, violating a park curfew. Men and women shuffle forward, heads hung low, and listen as a prosecutor offers more or less the same deal -- whatever time they have already served in a sweaty lockup and a fine.
The judge poses a final question to each defendant: Do you acknowledge guilt? 
Do you?
An hour passes, and I hanker for a more ambitious, not to mention less repentant, class of wrongdoer. Enough with the teenage mother who smoked a joint, the jewelry salesman who loitered past midnight in a park or the multiply pierced young woman who stole a ham to pay for a heroin fix.
I board the No. 4 train and ride north to a gorgeous Beaux-Arts building with a mansard roof on the corner of 40th Street and Fifth Avenue. This is the American headquarters for HSBC.
It's a splendidly large bank, with $2.5 trillion in global assets, 300,000 employees and a 2011 profit of about $22 billion. It is one of our city's prominent corporate citizens, contributing to museums and charitable groups.
It also let Mexican drug cartels launder money on a grand scale, according to a Senate report, and it evaded laws intended to stop banks from doing business with Iran and North Korea. Perhaps most astonishing, the report said it had conducted business for many years with Al Rajhi, a bank in Saudi Arabia whose founder was an Al Qaeda benefactor.
All of this is detailed in the report, 335 pages long, issued a few weeks ago by Senator Carl Levin. It reads like a racketeering indictment of the Genovese crime family, replete with evidence that senior officials knew the contours of the game.
''This is a global bank that failed to comply with rules aimed at combating terrorism, drug trafficking and the money laundering that fuels so much of what threatens the global community,'' Mr. Levin said.
The financial industry in 2012 New York City offers itself as almost a Medelln cartel of shady and unscrupulous dealings.
Northeast of HSBC's headquarters sits that of Barclays, a venerable bank that of late admitted to fixing Libor, an obscure interest rate that underpins trillions of dollars in investments. A wee nudge here and there, and a clever bank insider could make tens of millions of dollars. If such corruptions result in New York City's paying a million dollars more to build a block of low-income housing, que sera sera and all that.
Barclays quickly cut its losses, settling for $450 million and the resignation of a senior official or three. As a public defender in Manhattan Criminal Court would tell you, it's always good to get out ahead of trouble.
Morgan Stanley analysts -- in a recent internal summary -- sounded admiring: Barclays paid a smaller fine because ''the firm was early and cooperative with regulators.''
Now other banks are rolling on each other, eager to pay whatever hundreds of millions of dollars in fines are needed to get back to business as usual. UBS, on 52nd Street and Avenue of the Americas, has turned over e-mails and documents implicating Deutsche Bank (60 Wall Street), Royal Bank of Scotland (on East 40th Street) and HSBC.
UBS is a repeat offender. In a less fashionable venue, it might face a stiff sentence. In recent years, it conspired to defraud the United States by creating 17,000 secret Swiss accounts for Americans who wanted to commit tax fraud. Two of its top officials, including the bank's global general counsel, settled insider trading charges a few years back.
New York barred that counsel, David D. Aufhauser, from practicing law in the state for two years. No worries. About a year later, he became a partner in Washington for Williams & Connolly, specializing in financial services.
A jog to the east finds Wells Fargo, whose executives are prominent players in this city's gilded social circuit. Last month, it agreed to pay at least $175 million because brokers who originated its loans consistently charged higher fees and interest rates to black and Hispanic borrowers than to white borrowers with similar credit histories.
A former employee described to me the bank's habit of systematically targeting blacks and Latinos for the worst loans. The bank was, this employee said, ''riding the stagecoach from hell.''
Wells Fargo, of course, admitted no guilt. When do they ever? A few months ago, Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase acknowledged mistakes in losing a few, maybe 10, billion dollars in badly supervised trades. As for HSBC, the bank of choice for so many money launderers? Irene Dorner, chief executive of the United States operation, told a Senate committee, ''We have some ways to go to regain the trust of regulators and the public.''
Actual guilt is the province of those unfortunates who sat jammed in serried rows in Manhattan Criminal Court. Here, almost everyone admits guilt -- or risks trial.
''I was in the park next to my building at 12:15, so they arrested me for loitering,'' said a man named Francisco. ''It's nonsense. But I've got a job -- what am I supposed to do, take off more days and have a trial?
''Easier to say guilty, you know?''
Not for the men and women in the city's executive suites.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HSBC was faulted in a Senate report on money laundering. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL TAGGART/BLOOMBERG NEWS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CANNABIS (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); INDICTMENTS (78%); MONEY LAUNDERING (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (78%); WOMEN (77%); LOITERING & VAGRANCY (77%); CURFEW (73%); CARTELS (70%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (70%); COUNTERTERRORISM (70%); HEROIN (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); CHARITIES (66%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (66%); AL-QAEDA (63%); TERRORISM (63%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (63%); PUBLIC HOUSING (62%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (74%); SAUDI ARABIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



228 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Tolerance Ended, Frankfurt Dismantles Occupy Tent City

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- The city of Frankfurt ended months of tolerance on Monday toward the local Occupy movement, methodically clearing away a tent city at the doorstep of the European Central Bank after complaints that it had become an eyesore and health hazard more than a protest against global capitalism.After a court rejected an appeal by protesters, Frankfurt police officers in riot gear surrounded the park adjacent to the building that houses the European Central Bank, blocked off nearby streets and began dismantling tents.
Protesters argued with the police, beat drums and played loud rap music, but there appeared to be no physical confrontation. As of early evening Monday, nobody had been arrested, police said. 
Despite being a center of global finance and the seat of euro zone monetary policy, Frankfurt adopted a policy of tolerance toward its local Occupy movement when it began in October. This approach contrasted with that of other cities including New York, where the police arrested nearly 200 people when they cleared the Occupy Wall Street camp at a park in November. In Oakland, California, the police used tear gas against protesters in October.
Partly as a result, the Frankfurt Occupy encampment lasted longer than many of the protests that sprang up around the world last autumn. Others continue, including one in Hong Kong next to HSBC headquarters. The Frankfurt activists said they chose the park next to the European Central Bank to call attention to what they said was its lack of democratic accountability, and the austerity it has helped force on countries like Greece.
In Frankfurt, a harsh winter was initially a greater challenge to the protesters than the city authorities, who largely ignored them. But in recent months, there were increasing reports that the site housed more homeless people than political activists and that it had become infested with rats.
''The city of Frankfurt has a rat problem, not us,'' Alexander Kkk, a 30-year-old protester, said Friday. He did not deny that there were rats at the site but said they had already been living there.
Still, the camp was not exactly a model of good hygiene. Next to one tent, a pile of eggplant peelings lay on the ground. Police officers in bulletproof vests, with looks of distaste on their faces, picked up candy wrappers and other refuse, which they put in blue garbage bags. City officials estimated that 60 people lived at the site, while protesters put the number as high as 100.
After a local court on Monday rejected appeals by protesters to stay at the site, ruling that the protesters lacked a common purpose, the Frankfurt law enforcement authorities surrounded the site with metal barriers, and police vehicles lined up bumper to bumper in a display of force.
Inside the park, though, the police avoided confrontation. Teams dismantled tents and shelters fashioned from plastic sheeting and wooden cargo pallets and stuffed belongings into plastic bags, which an officer with a clipboard numbered and cataloged.
Jrg Bannach, head of the Office of Public Order, said any unclaimed possessions would be kept in a warehouse for two weeks, where their owners could pick them up. The authorities plan to take their time clearing the park. ''We've been patient this long, we can afford to take our time,'' Mr. Bannach said.
Some protesters left voluntarily.
''I'd rather pack my things than have the police do it,'' Mr. Kkk said as he removed the flexible poles holding up his gray nylon tent.
Mr. Kkk, a member of a team that has been documenting the protest on video, recalled enduring a winter night when the temperature fell to minus 19 degrees Celsius (minus 2 Fahrenheit), saying he kept warm with the help of a gas heater, a warm sleeping bag and a hot water bottle.
Maike Wolf, a 24-year-old protester who works part time at a drugstore, said she did not plan to go voluntarily and instead offer ''passive resistance.'' But, she added, ''there won't be any violence from our side.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ARRESTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); RODENTS (86%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); LITIGATION (77%); RIOTS (76%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); CITIES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (64%); RAP MUSIC (55%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (55%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); GREECE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



229 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: New Investment Products in China Raise Fears of Collapse

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
TAIHE, CHINA -- The Chinese investment vehicle known as Golden Elephant No. 38 promises buyers a return of 7.2 percent per year. That is more than double the rate offered on savings accounts in China.Absent from the product's prospectus is any indication of the asset underpinning Golden Elephant: a near-empty housing project in the rural town of Taihe at the end of a dirt path amid rice fields in one of the poorest provinces in China.
''They haven't even built a proper road here,'' said Li Chun, a car repairman, who said he lives in the project.
Golden Elephant No. 38 is one of thousands of ''wealth management products'' -- instruments aimed at wealthy investors -- that have shown phenomenal growth in the past five years. Sales soared 43 percent in the first half of 2012 to 12.14 trillion renminbi, or $1.9 trillion, according to a report by CN Benefit, a Chinese wealth management consulting firm. 
They are usually created in China's ''shadow banking'' system -- trusts that are not subject to the same regulations as banks -- which has grown to account for about a fifth of all new financing in China.
Barclays estimates 22 trillion renminbi in wealth management products will be issued this year. Fitch Ratings says Chinese banks had about 10.4 trillion renminbi in wealth management product liability at the end of June.
Like the lending in subprime debt in the United States that helped set off the 2008 financial crisis, the products are often opaque and usually depend on high-risk underlying assets like the Taihe housing project.
Financial instability in the Chinese economy, the world's second-largest, after that of the United States, could have global ramifications, and warning bells have begun to sound about the way the products are marketed in China.
China Credit Trust, one of the country's biggest trust companies, has disclosed that one of its wealth funds, Jinkai No. 1, is at risk of default because of money it loaned to the coal company Zhenfu Energy. Zhenfu's chief executive has been arrested amid reports that he owed a total of 500 million renminbi.
If the fund were to fail, it would be one of the first in China's fast-growing trust industry to do so and would become a test case as to who is ultimately liable when investment products go bad.
Some analysts are warning of potential fraud in the industry.
''Some banks have been using new proceeds to cover losses from previous products in the pool,'' said David Cui, a strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, referring to new wealth management products. ''In our view, this is not fundamentally different from a Ponzi scheme,'' a fraud in which early investors are repaid with money collected from later clients instead of proceeds from investments. ''The music may stop at a certain point if and when'' the assets the wealth management products are based on stop expanding.
In a review of more than 50 wealth management and trust loan products, with the aim of tracking where investors' money in the products ends up, all but two failed to explain or even display the underlying assets behind the products.
The China Banking Regulatory Commission, which oversees banking products, said more than 20,000 wealth management products were in circulation, compared with a few hundred just five years ago.
In an e-mail, the regulator said new banking rules required more transparency.
''It is uncommon to find wealth management products that fail to clearly specify the underlying securitized assets,'' it said, adding that a regulation issued last year ''clearly states that W.M.P. prospectuses must indicate how the money is being used, and the percentage of money that is being put into each asset class.''
As China's growth engine slows, concerns are rising that the mountain of products, many of which reach maturity in a mere four weeks, will struggle to keep the money flowing in.
''The concern is if some investors begin to experience losses in these products, this could create a panic among other investors,'' said Mike Werner, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. ''This could result in investors fleeing these products and result in a liquidity squeeze for this market.''
The 14-page prospectus for Wealth Management Plan No. 350, sold by China Merchants Bank, says it aims to raise 200 million renminbi. Not until the fifth page is it disclosed that the product is linked to the Railway Ministry -- whose dept of 2.2 trillion renminbi exceeds the combined worth of all major U.S. banks.
The railroad operator is seeking to refinance 2.43 trillion renminbi. The state-run Beijing Times said the ministry had lost 7 billion renminbi in the first quarter of this year alone, hammered by debt repayments of more than 28 billion renminbi in January through March.
The prospectus also says as much as 70 percent of the product's proceeds could be used for investments in ''other assets,'' without saying what those assets were.
In the U.S. subprime mortgage bubble, many of the credit derivative obligations and other investment instruments underpinned by risky home loans were deemed worthy of the top-level AAA grade by ratings agencies. In China, domestic agencies give the Railway Ministry's bonds their highest ratings.
''The problem is that not even high-net-worth Chinese people may fully understand the risks involved,'' said Gigi Chan, who runs the China Opportunities Fund at Threadneedle Investments, which manages more than $123 billion in assets globally.
Deposit growth at Chinese banks, meanwhile, slowed to about 13 percent last year, its slowest pace in decades.
Money flowing out of saving deposits and into wealth management products poses a potential threat to banking stability because it reduces the amount of money banks have on hand to lend and could lead to cash pressures, analysts warn.
''Fitch has long emphasized that the greatest risk associated with Chinese banks' wealth management activity is the strain it places on funding and liquidity,'' Charlene Chu, a Fitch analyst, wrote in a research note. ''The risk was easily controllable when the amount of outstanding products remained small. But it is increasingly difficult for Chinese banks to manage.''
Chinese banks say the products are a response to the demands of a market that has shown explosive growth.
''Customer expectations on financial services have been rising,'' said Zhang Jianguo, president of China Construction Bank. ''To ensure our wholesome development, to keep customers and attract new ones, wealth management products have now become an essential part of any financial offering.''
All other banks mentioned in this article declined to comment.
It is not entirely clear who bears the risk if the products default.
Chinese courts have ordered banks to compensate investors who lost money buying mutual funds and other financial products, prompting some to suggest that a string of such defaults could weigh heavily on major Chinese lenders.
But the fine print in most of the documentation for the products puts the onus squarely on the investor.
As for the Golden Elephant, proceeds of its sales were channeled to Taihe City Construction, a local government financing vehicle.
Taihe City Construction used the 50 million renminbi raised to pay off part of the cost of constructing the subsidized housing units, according to the product's prospectus.
''The central government wanted more subsidized housing, so they just removed all the farmers here and told them to leave,'' said Xiao Hongmei, a Taihe resident.
A spokesman at the publicity department of the Taihe government office declined to comment, referring queries to the Jiangxi provincial government.
Xu Weiguo, a deputy director at the provincial economic planning department, said Jiangxi was a model for keeping economic risks to a minimum.
''We always study the central government's instructions very closely and follow the rules,'' Mr. Xu said by telephone. ''There will not be any problems with our books.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (84%); BANKING IN CHINA (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%); CREDIT BUREAUS (65%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (64%); PONZI SCHEMES (60%); ARRESTS (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



230 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: Investors Seek Out Safer Shores

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER

 BODY:
The pine-accented Manhattan outpost of Norway's biggest bank, high in a Midtown skyscraper, is an unlikely shelter in a global financial storm.The bank, DNB, like its home country, has experienced a rush of money from American investors looking for safety while they wait out the debt crisis in Europe and slowing economic growth in America and China. Just about every day, the front desk receptionist at DNB takes cold calls from investors wanting to buy Norway's bonds or some other asset tied to Scandinavia's healthy economy.
''A few years ago, these people wouldn't have known where Norway was on the world map,'' said Clifford Queen, a DNB bond trader in New York.
Government bonds issued by the United States, Germany and Japan are still the primary havens for scared investors around the globe. The demand has pushed down the interest rate on the 10-year United States Treasury bond to record lows around 1.5 percent. But investors have begun to worry about holding too many Treasury bonds as other safe alternatives dwindle as a result of the economic troubles sweeping the globe. This has led many investors to places that used to be on the fringes of the investing world like Norway, Sweden, Canada and Australia. 
These countries offer little of the risk, or the outsize returns, that were so alluring to investors before the financial crisis. But now that fear is the main motivator -- strategists call it seeking a return of equity instead of a return on equity -- healthy government finances are a powerful magnet for money.
''It is getting harder to find safe assets,'' said David Nagle, who helps manage money for insurance companies at Babson Capital. ''We didn't need to dig as deep a few years ago to uncover these things. But now you are scraping around for everything you can find.''
The search for investments that carry little to no risk of default has become a dominant theme driving flows of money around the world. It kicked in a few years ago when top-rated United States mortgage bonds blew up in the financial crisis, and it has intensified recently as the economic future of European countries that used to be viewed as safe investments has been thrown into question.
Foreign investors have fled from the bonds of countries like Italy and Spain, pushing up the cost of borrowing for those governments. Even those European countries with the strongest economies, like Germany, have become less attractive because of their exposure to the possible breakup of the euro currency.
Investors have instead sought out government bonds from Sweden, Finland and Norway, where rates have hit record lows this summer. Last week, while rates on Spain's 10-year debt ranged from 6.5 to 7.5 percent, Norway's hovered around 1.8 percent. In Norway, 70 percent of the outstanding government bonds are in foreign hands, up from 50 percent three years ago, according to Erica Blomgren, the chief strategist in Norway for the Swedish bank SEB.
The rush of money can pose serious problems. In Canada, the cheap money available to the nation's banks has made it easier for people to get mortgages, pushing up home prices and raising concerns about a housing bubble. The Canadian government has responded by repeatedly tightening rules on mortgage lending, most recently in June, when the maximum term of mortgages was shortened to 25 years from 30.
Household debt in Norway has also risen recently, driving home prices to levels that some analysts have said are unsustainable. Unlike central banks elsewhere in Europe, which are pushing interest rates down to help encourage economic growth, Norway's central bank cautioned in a June report that it will most likely begin increasing interest rates next year.
The influx of foreign money has also pushed up the value of currencies like the Norwegian krone, making exports less attractive and angering manufacturing companies. The central bank in Switzerland, another popular safe haven, has been aggressive in holding down the value of the franc by using its reserves to buy other currencies.
Clamor for safe assets is coming from investors of all stripes. Individuals and businesses in America have been depositing more of their cash in federally insured bank accounts. The banks, in turn, have had to find safe places to invest what they do not lend, and they have been competing against other money managers, like mutual funds and insurance companies, looking to do the same thing.
Money market mutual funds, which invest in safe, short-term debt, have an inside view on this search for safe assets because of regulations that restrict them to the highest-quality assets.
David Glocke, a portfolio manager for Vanguard's money market funds, said that since the financial crisis he has had to cross a growing number of possible investments off his list because of the European crisis. While he used to provide very short term loans to banks across Europe, he has stopped lending to companies even in countries with the euro zone's strongest economies, like Germany and the Netherlands.
''It's a challenge to manage the portfolio in an environment where there are fewer names to invest in,'' Mr. Glocke said.
Mr. Glocke has responded by putting over half of the money market funds' money into short-term Treasury bonds, up from 28 percent in 2009. He has also added Australian and Canadian banks to the list of places where he will invest.
Money market fund managers around the world have found relative certainty in the government bonds of Germany, Japan and Britain, which all have interest rates on 10-year bonds that are near or below the rock-bottom United States yields. But many institutional investors have voiced concerns that the interest rates on these bonds have gone too low, particularly given the budgetary problems in the United States and Britain and Germany's exposure to the euro.
The interest this has generated in smaller countries is evident from the short-term loans that have gone to companies like the Bank of Nova Scotia. The bank is Canada's third-largest, but it recently overtook both JPMorgan Chase and Citibank to become the ninth-largest recipient of loans from money market funds, according to May figures from Crane Data. Canadian banks have been so attractive in part because of their good performance during the financial crisis.
''As long as global investors are worrying about the possibility of a renewed systemic banking crisis, it makes infinite sense that they would have a more positive feeling about financial systems that went through the 2008 crisis well,'' said Craig Alexander, the chief economist at Toronto-Dominion Bank.
More broadly, American money market funds took $17 billion out of German banks and $19 billion out of the Netherlands in June, at the same time that the funds were putting $5 billion into Norwegian banks and $9 billion into Swedish ones, according to data from a J. P. Morgan analyst, Alex Roever.
Still, investments in Canada and Scandinavian countries are far from perfect replacements for Italian and Spanish bonds. The new safe havens are harder to trade into and out of during times of crisis because there are fewer outstanding bonds and less trading than in huge markets like that for United States Treasury bonds.
But the attraction of Norwegian bonds in uncertain times is not hard to understand. Norway's unemployment rate hovers around 3 percent and the country is one of the few in the world with a budget surplus. If the government did ever run into trouble paying back bondholders, it could presumably tap some of the country's immense oil resources. All of this has led investors buying insurance on government bonds to rate Norway as the safest bet in the world.
To give investors a way to buy into this safety, DNB has invented new kinds of Norwegian bonds for foreigners, including so-called covered bonds, which are backed by Norwegian mortgages. These were first made available in the United States in 2010, and $10 billion of them have already been sold. This year, the bank began placing its own bonds privately with American investors, raising $10 billion this way.
DNB's New York offices are dotted with signs of construction as the company expands its offices to make room for the roughly 30 new employees it has brought on in the last few years to deal with the new activity -- a 40 percent expansion. Kristian Ottosen, a bond trader, said that the company had been hiring from competitors forced by the risk-averse climate to scale back.
''We can actually afford to staff up when everyone else is struggling with the euro crisis and American mortgages,'' Mr. Ottosen said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The New York offices of DNB, Norway's biggest bank, have expanded in recent years to deal with new activity. (B1)
 Kristian Ottosen, left, and Clifford Queen are bond traders for DNB in New York. DNB has created new bonds for foreign buyers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BOND ISSUES (77%); EURO CRISIS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (72%); EURO (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); BOND MARKETS (70%); INSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORWAY (95%); EUROPE (94%); SWEDEN (92%); CHINA (92%); SPAIN (92%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); FINLAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



231 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rise as Turmoil Takes the Day Off

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks edged higher on Monday in a trading session marked by uncharacteristic quiet after a turbulent week.In the absence of major economic news, stocks rode a tail wind of optimism from the most recent employment numbers released on Friday and hope for more action by European authorities to address the Continent's debt crisis.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 21.34 points, or 0.16 percent, at 13,117.51. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 3.24 points, or 0.23 percent, to 1,394.23. 
At one point in Monday's trading, the S.& P. was within half a point of 1,400, which it has not touched since May 3.
The Nasdaq composite index rose 22.01 points, or 0.74 percent, to 2,989.91.
The stock market fell the first four days of last week as investors, worried about the weak economy, were disappointed by the lack of specific action from the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank. The Dow lost 197 points from Monday through Thursday.
But the Dow soared 217 points on Friday after a surprisingly strong jobs report. The American economy generated 163,000 jobs last month, far more than expected.
The upturn was seen as a sign that the United States may be resilient enough to pull out of a midyear slump and grow modestly as the rest of the world slows down.
Stock markets also rose in Europe on Monday. Speculation has been building that the European Central Bank would ultimately support struggling countries like Spain and Italy by buying bonds issued by those governments. The DAX index in Germany and the CAC-40 in France both rose a little less than 1 percent.
Spain's IBEX 35 soared 4.4 percent despite a five-hour blackout from a technical problem that halted trading for much of the day.
''Mutual fund managers and hedge funds have sizable holdings in cash and they need to put those to work,'' said Richard Cripps, chief investment officer for Stifel Financial. ''There's optimism over the progress made in Europe and also constructive news from the U.S. economy.''
Shares of the Knight Capital Group stock fell 98 cents, or 24 percent, to $3.07 on Monday after the beleaguered stock trading firm lined up financing that will allow the firm to continue to operate. Knight said a group of investors had agreed to buy $400 million of preferred stock that can be converted into a 73 percent stake in the firm.
Knight's stock is down 70 percent since last Tuesday, the day before a software malfunction caused its computer systems to send erroneous orders flooding into the market. The firm's future was thrown into doubt after the malfunction cost it $440 million.
Going in the opposite direction was Best Buy, which jumped $2.35, or 13 percent, to $19.99 after its founder and former chief executive, Richard M. Schulze, offered to buy the company at a premium to its stock price. Mr. Schulze, 71, is its largest shareholder with a 20 percent stake.
Cognizant Technology Solutions, the consulting company, jumped $6.34, or 11 percent, to $64.21 after its second-quarter results beat Wall Street's estimates. The company raised its full-year earnings forecast.
The Interpublic Group, a marketing company, fell 86 cents, or 8 percent, to $10.11 after a rival, the Publicis Groupe of France, shot down a report that it was weighing a bid to buy the American advertising company.
Tyson Foods fell $1.23, or 8 percent, to $14.17 after the company reported that income dropped 61 percent in the quarter.
Pluristem Therapeutics climbed 49 cents, or 15 percent, to $3.80. The Israeli drug maker said a cancer patient's life was saved with the use of certain cells it had developed.
The bond market was also quiet on Monday. The price of the Treasury's 10-year note rose 1/32, to 101 22/32, while its yield was unchanged from late Friday at 1.57 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute:Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervalsyesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 3-Month Treasury Bills:High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); PREFERRED STOCK (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); BOND ISSUES (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (62%); EXECUTIVES (62%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); STIFEL FINANCIAL CORP (52%); KNIGHT CAPITAL GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (82%)

TICKER: SF (NYSE) (52%); KCG (PAR) (52%); KCG (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



232 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Occupy's Frankfurt Camp Is Closed as Health Hazard

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- Police in riot gear methodically cleared a tent city at the doorstep of the European Central Bank on Monday, ending months of tolerance for the encampment, following complaints that it had become more of an eyesore and health hazard than a protest against global capitalism.After a court rejected an appeal by protesters, officers surrounded the park next to the downtown building that houses the bank, blocked off the adjacent streets and began dismantling tents.
Protesters argued with the police, beat drums and played loud rap music, but there appeared to be no physical confrontation. Some people were carried or escorted from the site by the police, but the authorities said there were no arrests by early evening. 
Though Frankfurt is a center of global finance and the seat of monetary policy for the euro zone, the city adopted a laid-back attitude toward its local Occupy protest movement when it began in October. By contrast, the New York police arrested nearly 200 people when they cleared the Occupy Wall Street camp at Zuccotti Park in November, about two months after protesters began gathering there. And in Oakland, Calif., police officers used tear gas against protesters last October, though protests have continued.
Partly as a result, the Frankfurt Occupy encampment lasted longer than many others around the world. An unusually harsh winter posed a greater challenge to the protesters than did the city authorities, who largely ignored the protests. But reports in recent months said that the site housed more homeless people than political activists and that it had become infested with rats.
''The city of Frankfurt has a rat problem, not us,'' Alexander Kkk, 30, a protester, said Friday. He said the vermin were at the site before the tents went up.
Even so, the camp was not exactly a model of good hygiene. Next to one tent, a pile of eggplant peelings lay on the ground. Police officers in bulletproof vests, with looks of distaste on their faces, picked up candy wrappers and other refuse, which they put in blue garbage bags.
City officials estimated that about 60 people were living at the site before the police cleared it, while protesters put the number as high as 100. Activists said they chose the site to call attention to what they said was the Central Bank's lack of democratic accountability, and to protest the austerity measures it has helped impose on deeply indebted countries like Greece.
A local court ruled on Monday, though, that the campers there lacked a common purpose and could be removed. The city authorities then encircled the park with metal barriers, and police vehicles lined up bumper to bumper as teams of officers began to tear down makeshift shelters fashioned from plastic sheeting and wooden cargo pallets and to stuff campers' belongings into plastic bags, which an officer with a clipboard numbered and cataloged.
Jrg Bannach, head of the city's Office of Public Order, said that the bagged items would be held for two weeks in a warehouse where owners could pick them up. He said the police planned to take their time with the work and would avoid confrontations if they could.
Some protesters left voluntarily. ''I'd rather pack my things than have the police do it,'' Mr. Kkk said as he removed the flexible poles holding up his gray nylon tent.
But Maike Wolf, 24, a protester who works part time at a drugstore, said she did not intend to go voluntarily and instead would offer ''passive resistance.'' She added, ''There won't be any violence from our side.''
Though the site in Frankfurt joined a long list of Occupy encampments that have been shut down, some continue, including one in Hong Kong next to the headquarters of HSBC, the international bank.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Officers cleared Occupy tents at the European Central Bank's doorstep on Monday. The Frankfurt camp lasted longer than most. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL PROBST/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RIOTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ARRESTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); CITIES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); RODENTS (69%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (66%); DEBTOR NATIONS (64%); RAP MUSIC (55%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (55%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); GREECE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



233 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: The Airlines Blink on Fares

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I FOUND it interesting to see that the latest attempt by the major airlines to raise fares had faltered by Monday morning, as United Airlines backed off after evidently taking a good look at softening demand.United had initiated the attempt to raise fares last week, but when it abandoned the increase over the weekend, American Airlines and Delta Air Lines also backed off, according to Rick Seaney, the chief executive of FareCompare.com, who is an indefatigable tracker of airline fare activity.
It's too soon to know whether airlines may try again in September to raise fares or cut capacity even further in their madcap chase to fill as many seats as they profitably can. 
In the meantime, passengers are also chasing those seats, which are becoming increasingly difficult to find at the lowest fares as airlines impose extra fees on everything in flight -- including the better (or less awful) seats that aren't in the middle of a row back by the lavatories.
With the latest attempt to raise fares, ''It's sort of 'Zombieland,' '' Mr. Seaney said. ''I think airlines are just probing'' for signs of vitality in demand.
As we all know, fares have been going up steadily all year. I abandoned a leisure trip from Tucson to southwest Florida last month because I wasn't willing to pay a fare that was twice what I paid in past years. I also decided not to attend the annual Global Business Travel Association convention in Boston last month because it just wasn't worth the high price for airfare and hotel and the hassles of getting there and back.
I didn't mind missing the business trip, but I'd been looking forward to the leisure one to Florida. A month before my planned departure, I thought fares were too high, about $750. I decided to wait for the prices to drop.
''Did you get your ticket?'' my wife kept asking.
''No, my new strategy is to wait till the last minute,'' I assured her.
A few days before my hoped-for departure, fares were higher than ever, and choices were now limited mostly to flights with multiple connections. Southwest, meanwhile, does fly direct to Fort Myers -- but the fare was over $1,000, which was irrelevant anyway because there were no seats available.
Are we reaching a point where demand is softening and airlines are going to be scrambling to further reduce supply? Certainly, that's already an indication in trans-Atlantic travel, where fare sales are proliferating as demand slackens and capacity is shrinking.
In the second quarter, United Airlines had 4.1 percent fewer trans-Atlantic seats than in the second quarter of 2011 ''in the face of Europe's continuing economic challenges,'' James E. Compton, the company's chief revenue officer, said in a conference call last month.
Globally, the outlook is uncertain. ''Oil prices surged in July,'' the International Air Transport Association warned in its latest financial monitor report. The report added that ''softening demand could begin to undermine the persisting upward trend in U.S. passenger yields.''
Keep in mind that those domestic passenger yields -- the revenue per passenger -- are strongly buttressed by all those fees the airlines charge above the basic coach fares for things like checked bags, better seats and services like in-flight food and Wi-Fi. If corporate travel managers embark on new cost-cutting sprees, those are the first services they will stop covering.
Domestically, airlines continue to cut capacity and weed out routes that don't provide high yields -- which mostly means routes handled by the regional jets that are the backbone of air service in midsize and smaller markets. Delta, for example, reported that as part of its overall domestic capacity reductions, it flew 6.9 percent fewer seats on regional routes in July compared with July 2011. Delta's trans-Atlantic capacity was also down sharply, by 7.6 percent.
The retreat from the latest attempt to raise domestic fares comes as airline managers struggle to find the right mix of price and supply as fuel costs fluctuate and the economy shows signs of slowing down.
So, as trivial as my personal spending is to an airline, I may have been unwittingly sending two clear signals last month when I abandoned plans for a leisure trip and a business trip. Even though the company pays my business expenses, there comes a point where I weigh the benefits of any given trip against the costs.
In backing away from what would have been the fifth general domestic fare increase this year, airlines were apparently most worried about the impact on leisure travel, Mr. Seaney said. ''I'm positive they felt they were right on the wallet price-point dividing line,'' where another $20 or $30 a ticket would have kept a lot more leisure travelers from flying, he said. The implications for business travel, which is at its slowest pace in late summer, are less clear.
''I think business travelers might still absorb an extra $10 or $20 as the cost of doing business,'' he said. ''But I think leisure travelers are right on the edge. And the airlines can't really fly profitably if they don't fill the back of the plane.''
In general, he added, price resistance is growing among all travelers: ''I've never heard more complaints than I hear now from people about buying airline tickets. Everybody's like, 'What's going on? I never paid that much for that trip, and I'm not going to this time. Where's my car?' ''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AIR FARES (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); EXECUTIVES (71%); LEISURE TRAVEL (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (64%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (90%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (84%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT MYERS, FL, USA (69%); BOSTON, MA, USA (54%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (64%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



234 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1628 words

HEADLINE: A Killer Who Fed and Was Fueled by Hate

BYLINE: By ERICA GOODE and SERGE F. KOVALESKI; Reporting was contributed by Jack Begg, James Dao, Dirk Johnson, Jennifer Preston, John Schwartz, Scott Shane, Thom Shanker, Ben Sisario and Steven Yaccino.

 BODY:
His music, Wade M. Page once said, was about ''how the value of human life has been degraded by tyranny.''But on Sunday, Mr. Page, an Army veteran and a rock singer whose bands specialized in the lyrics of hate, coldly took the lives of six people and wounded three others when he opened fire with a 9-millimeter semiautomatic handgun in a Sikh temple in Oak Creek, Wis., the police said. Officers then shot him to death.
To some who track the movements of white supremacist groups, the violence was not a total surprise. Mr. Page, 40, had long been among the hundreds of names on the radar of organizations monitored by the Southern Poverty Law Center because of his ties to the white supremacist movement and his role as the leader of a white-power band called End Apathy. The authorities have said they are treating the shooting as an act of domestic terrorism.
In Oak Creek and in nearby Cudahy, Wis., south of Milwaukee, where Mr. Page lived in the days before the attack, the magnitude and the nature of what had happened were only beginning to sink in, grief competing with outrage. A company flew its flag at half-staff. A Christian minister offered his parishioners' help to a Sikh gathering at the Salvation Army. 
At a news conference on Monday, Teresa Carlson, a special agent for the F.B.I., which is leading the investigation, said, ''We don't have any reason to believe that there was anyone else'' involved in the crime. Law enforcement officials said earlier on Monday they wanted to speak with a ''person of interest'' who was at the temple on Sunday, but by late afternoon they had ruled out any connection between him and the shooting.
Oak Creek's police chief, John Edwards, speaking at the news conference, identified the five men and one woman who died at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin: Sita Singh, 41; Ranjit Singh, 49; Prakash Singh, 39; Paramjit Kaur, 41; Suveg Singh, 84; and Satwant Singh Kaleka, 65, who was the center's president.
Peter Hoyt, 53, a neighbor of Mr. Page's in Cudahy who often stopped to chat with him during morning walks, said he was ''stunned'' that the man he had known could have done something so violent. Mr. Page, he said, told him that he had broken up with a girlfriend in early June.
''He didn't seem like he was visibly upset,'' Mr. Hoyt said about the breakup. ''He didn't seem angry. He seemed more emotionally upset. He wasn't mad. He was hurt.''
Mark Potok, a senior fellow at the Southern Poverty Law Center, said Mr. Page had come to the center's attention a decade ago because of his affiliation with rock bands known for lyrics that push far past the boundaries of tolerance.
''The music that comes from these bands is incredibly violent, and it talks about murdering Jews, black people, gay people and a whole host of other enemies,'' Mr. Potok said. He added that in 2000, Mr. Page tried to buy unspecified goods from the National Alliance, which Mr. Potok described as a neo-Nazi organization that at the time was one of the country's best organized and best financed hate groups.
But Mr. Potok said the center had not passed any information about Mr. Page to law enforcement.
''We were not looking at this guy as anything special until today,'' he said. ''He was one of thousands. We were just keeping an eye on him.''
Although little known among music fans, a steady subculture of racist and anti-Semitic rock bands has existed on the margins of punk and heavy metal in Europe and the United States since at least the 1970s. Hate groups sometimes use some of the bands and their record labels for fund-raising and recruiting, according to the law center and the Anti-Defamation League.
In an interview posted on the Web site of the record company Label56, Mr. Page mentioned going to Hammerfest, an annual white-supremacist festival well known to civil rights advocates. He also said he played in various neo-Nazi bands, including Blue Eyed Devils, whose song ''White Victory'' includes the lines: ''Now I'll fight for my race and nation/Sieg Heil!'' The company removed the interview from its site on Monday.
Analysts for the F.B.I. and the Department of Homeland Security routinely monitor violent extremist Web sites of all kinds, including those attracting white supremacists, according to former officials of both agencies. But the department's work on the topic has been criticized. In 2009, conservatives in Congress strongly objected to a department report titled ''Rightwing Extremism,'' which speculated that the recession and the election of a black president could increase the threat from white supremacists.
Janet Napolitano, the homeland security secretary, withdrew the report and apologized for what she called its flaws. Daryl Johnson, the homeland security analyst who was the primary author of the report, said last year that after the flap, the number of analysts assigned to track non-Islamic militancy had been reduced sharply. Homeland Security Department officials denied his assertion and said the department monitored violent extremism of every kind, without regard to its religious or political bent.
J. M. Berger, an author and analyst on counterterrorism who runs the Intelwire Web site, said Mr. Page ''clearly had a history with the white supremacist movement.'' A song called ''Welcome to the South'' by Definite Hate, another band that Mr. Page played in and that Mr. Berger found online, refers to ''our race war'' and asks, ''What has happened to America/That was once so white and free?'' Mr. Berger said the lyrics and album art of Definite Hate echo the views and vocabulary of the Hammerskins, or Hammerskin Nation, a white supremacist group founded in Dallas in 1988.
According to the SITE Monitoring Service, which follows white supremacist trends, Mr. Page had an extensive presence on Hammerskin and other white nationalist Web sites, including Stormfront, where he favored the names of his bands as user names and ''frequently included white supremacist symbolism'' in his postings. He concluded one posting with ''88,'' a number frequently used by neo-Nazis and skinheads to mean ''Heil, Hitler,'' according to SITE. (H is the eighth letter of the alphabet.) He also used ''14,'' the number of words in the rallying slogan of the white supremacist movement.
Although Mr. Hoyt, his neighbor, said Mr. Page had claimed that he enlisted in the Army after Sept. 11, Army records show that he separated from the military in 1998, completing his basic training at Fort Sill in Oklahoma and serving at Fort Bliss in El Paso and Fort Bragg in North Carolina. Listed as a psychological operations specialist, he was never deployed overseas, according to the records, although Mr. Hoyt said he had talked about combat.
''He said, 'You go there, and one minute you're with your buddies and the next minute you're dead,' '' Mr. Hoyt recalled.
A source familiar with Mr. Page's military history, who had not been authorized to speak about the case, said Mr. Page had received an ''other than honorable'' discharge from the Army. Pentagon officials said Mr. Page had also been demoted, from sergeant to specialist, before leaving the service.
In June 1994, while he was at Fort Bliss, the El Paso police arrested Mr. Page and charged him with criminal mischief. He was intoxicated and playing pool at a bar called the Attic when he ''began kicking large holes in the Sheetrock wall with his boots,'' said Renee Railey, a spokeswoman for the El Paso County district attorney.
Mr. Page pleaded guilty to the charge, a misdemeanor, and was sentenced to 90 days in jail, though he was allowed to fulfill the sentence through 180 days of probation. He paid $645 in fines and court costs, and was ordered to complete 24 hours of community service.
After leaving the Army, Mr. Page, a native of Colorado, lived for several years in North Carolina, where he owned a property that Wells Fargo foreclosed on in January. In a statement, the bank said that it had no dealings with Mr. Page other than routine notifications, and that the property was vacant when the foreclosure process began last August.
Mr. Page's former stepmother, Laura Page, 67, who divorced his father more than a decade ago, said that growing up, he was ''a precious little boy, a very mellow and soft-spoken person.''
In an interview in Denver, where she lives, Ms. Page said she had known her stepson since he was 10. As a child, she said, he worshiped the guitarist Stevie Ray Vaughan. His aspirations and dreams centered on music.
''Wade, his father and me would go camping and fishing in Colorado and have just a wonderful time, and we would play games at home, like cards and Monopoly,'' Ms. Page said. ''We just did the normal things that a family does.''
For most of his childhood, Ms. Page said, Mr. Page lived in the Denver area with his mother, a dog groomer, but she died when he was 13 or 14, and ''he took it very hard.'' He was not close to his father, she said, and moved in with a grandmother and an aunt who were also in Colorado. He enlisted in the military after graduating from high school.
''I can't imagine, I can't imagine what made him do this,'' Ms. Page said.
While residents in Oak Creek struggled to understand, the three wounded victims were struggling to survive. Among them was Lt. Brian Murphy, the first officer to arrive at the temple after 911 calls began flooding the Oak Creek Police Department at 10:25 on Sunday morning.
Lieutenant Murphy, 51, took in the scene and then stopped to tend to a wounded victim in the parking lot. When he looked up, an armed man was standing over him. The gunman fired eight or nine shots at close range, striking Lieutenant Murphy in the neck, Chief Edwards said. But when other officers rushed to help him, he waved them on -- the victims in the temple came first.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wade M. Page (PHOTOGRAPH BY F.B.I.) (A1)
Wade M. Page, left, as the leader of a white-power rock band, End Apathy. At right, the house where he lived in Cudahy, Wis.
 Family members and friends of victims of Sunday's shooting held a vigil at the Sikh Religious Society of Wisconsin on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHAN WEBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); TERRORISM (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); DEATHS (70%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); ARMIES (58%)

COMPANY: SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (71%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (82%); SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (56%); THE SALVATION ARMY (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (71%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (71%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



235 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Romney Team Outpaces Obama in Fund-Raising Again

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE and MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
The fund-raising machine behind Mitt Romney and the Republican Party once again outperformed President Obama and the Democrats last month, raising $25 million more in July than the president and his Democratic allies.Mr. Romney and the Republican National Committee took in $101.3 million in July, his campaign announced Monday, as Republican donors rallied behind their presumptive nominee with the national convention only a few weeks away. The president's campaign announced on Twitter on Monday morning that his July fund-raising with the Democratic National Committee topped out at about $75 million -- the third month in a row they have brought in less than the Republicans.
Mr. Obama's team appears to have all but conceded the money race, deluging the president's grass-roots supporters this summer with fund-raising e-mails and warning supporters of the financial advantage that the Republicans will hold going into the final months of the campaign. 
''Make no mistake, we will be outspent,'' a senior campaign official said during a conference call with reporters last month.
More detailed information about the July fund-raising, including how much the candidates themselves raised and how they spent their money, has not yet been released by the two candidates. All campaigns are required to report their fund-raising to the Federal Election Commission by Aug. 20.
But the Republican figure keeps Mr. Romney and his party on pace to bring in $800 million for the cycle, the target set by Mr. Romney's team in April. Roughly a quarter of the Republicans' haul, $25.7 million, came in donations under $250, as Mr. Romney worked to increase his appeal among small donors.
''Americans are clearly looking for a change in the White House,'' Reince Priebus, the chairman of the R.N.C., said in a statement. ''While President Obama claims that his economic plan 'worked,' the American people know that his policies haven't worked and he has failed to fix our economy.''
Because Mr. Obama easily outraised Mr. Romney all of last year and early this year, the president does not need to beat Mr. Romney in the months ahead to bring in the roughly $750 million his team has said they wish to raise in this cycle.
But heavy spending on field organizers, technology and advertising -- more than $400 million through the end of June -- appears to have cost Mr. Obama the impressive cash advantage he once had. And Democratic-leaning ''super PACs'' have raised far less money than their Republican counterparts, forcing Mr. Obama to spend heavily on attack advertisements against Mr. Romney, even while conservative groups pummel him on the airwaves.
The Republicans have used the cash surge of the last two months to begin trying to match Mr. Obama's field advantage, opening about 250 offices around the country, recruiting volunteers and hiring more than 600 staff members for the fall campaign. On Saturday, the R.N.C. announced that organizers had made their one millionth voter contact of the election cycle. The committee has also begun running general election advertisements, as Mr. Romney began doing in May.
The campaign, the Republican National Committee and a joint fund established by the Republicans to raise presidential campaign cash ended July with $185.9 million in cash on hand. They did not disclose what part of the money would end up in Mr. Romney's campaign coffers, which can accept only $5,000 from each donor every election cycle, and how much would go to the R.N.C., which can accept more than 10 times that amount from each donor.
Mr. Obama did not disclose how much money his campaign and the D.N.C. have on hand.
The strong fund-raising puts renewed pressure on Mr. Obama to bring in more cash and suggests certainty that Mr. Romney will remain financially competitive with an incumbent whose fund-raising prowess has long been a hallmark.
Underscoring the campaign's changed fortunes, Mr. Obama's campaign is no longer announcing its fund-raising totals in lush videos featuring his senior staff or field workers. Instead, on Monday, not long after Mr. Romney made his announcement, Mr. Obama's campaign put out its total in a brief message to his Twitter followers, thanking them for their money.
''Every bit helps,'' the campaign wrote.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, who raised $75 million in July, campaigned in Stamford, Conn., on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (50%)

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (58%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (57%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



236 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Fed Officials Underscore Divisions Over Action

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A senior Federal Reserve official said Monday that the employment data released last week had reinforced his view that the Fed must act to increase economic growth.Eric S. Rosengren, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, said that the Fed should again expand its holdings of mortgage bonds and Treasury securities, and that the purchases should steadily continue until the Fed was satisfied with the health of the economy.
''You continue to do it until it's clear that you're no longer treading water,'' Mr. Rosengren said in an interview. ''You continue to do it until you have documented evidence that you're getting growth in income and the unemployment rate consistent with your economic goals.'' 
The government estimated that payrolls increased by 163,000 in July, more than in the last several months and more than analysts had predicted. But Mr. Rosengren emphasized that several indicators, including the unemployment rate and the share of the population in the work force, had retreated to their levels at the beginning of the year.
''For the last seven months we've been treading water. That's different from what we expected at the beginning of the year,'' he said. ''I think it's time to swim to shore.''
But another Fed official, Richard W. Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, said in an interview with Reuters on Monday that he did not support additional monetary stimulus because he did not think it would reduce unemployment. He said the real drag on the economy was a lack of action by fiscal policy makers.
''We have hit a wall and that wall is called Congress,'' Mr. Fisher told Reuters.
The Fed said after the most recent meeting of its policy-making committee last week that it would act if the pace of job growth did not improve. The comments by the two officials offered the first glimpse of how the latest jobs data, released two days after the meeting, might affect the Fed's decision-making.
It is a limited glimpse. Mr. Rosengren and Mr. Fisher occupy opposite ends of the spectrum of Fed officials -- Mr. Rosengren already favored new action, while Mr. Fisher has consistently opposed new steps -- while the decision rests with a centrist group led by the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke.
Moreover, Mr. Rosengren and Mr. Fisher do not hold votes on the committee this year, although they participate in its discussions. Only five of the 12 presidents of the Fed's regional banks vote in any given year, in addition to Mr. Bernanke and the other six members of the Fed's board of governors.
But the comments underscore the extent of divisions among Fed officials that have been obscured by the central bank's efforts to maintain a united public face.
Some officials always vote with the majority, even if they favor a different course of action. And several of the most outspoken officials do not hold votes this year. As a result, the Fed's decision to take no new action was supported by 11 of the 12 voters. The one dissent came from Jeffrey M. Lacker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, who said the Fed was providing too much stimulus.
Mr. Rosengren expressed frustration with opponents of new action, noting that Fed officials had predicted that they would fail to meet both of their goals this year -- not only is unemployment too high, but inflation is too low.
And he said that even officials who doubt the Fed's ability to foster job growth should support action to raise the rate of inflation from the current pace of about 1.8 percent to the 2 percent level the Fed considers most healthy.
''The one thing I think all economists agree on is that the Fed should be able to have an impact on inflation,'' he said. ''We're missing on the inflation target. I think all economists would agree that we should take action to get back to the inflation target.''
Mr. Rosengren's proposal for new action would be a significant shift from earlier rounds of asset purchases, when the Fed announced in advance how much money it would spend and over what period of time. Mr. Rosengren and other officials, including John C. Williams, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, say that the focus instead should be on results.
He acknowledged that some economists, including some Fed officials, were skeptical about the central bank's ability to stimulate the economy. They argue that reduced borrowing costs have at best an indirect impact on problems including the decline in government spending, concern about the European recession and the efforts of many consumers to pay their existing debts.
But Mr. Rosengren, who holds a doctorate in economics from the University of Wisconsin, said the available research showed clear evidence that the Fed's previous asset purchases had economic benefits, including increased asset prices, lower borrowing costs and a weaker dollar.
''Exports are important, and so if we have a new program it's probably going to slow down the appreciation that we've experienced in the dollar, which would help support our export markets,'' Mr. Rosengren said.
Mr. Rosengren said he did not have a firm view on what kind of measuring stick the Fed should use for a new program of asset purchases. But he suggested the Fed could target a minimum rate of nominal growth -- economic growth plus inflation -- of 4.5 percent. The government estimates the rate of nominal growth in the 2012 second quarter at 3.1 percent.
That approach is likely to face resistance from officials including Mr. Bernanke, who has expressed little tolerance for pushing inflation above 2 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eric S. Rosengren, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUKREE SUKPLANG/REUTERS) (B1)
 Richard W. Fisher, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas president, argued that Congressional inaction had stymied the economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER FOLEY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); BONDS (72%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (72%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



237 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: Quick Lunge For a Lifeline Helped Knight Skirt Collapse

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS and NATHANIEL POPPER

 BODY:
When Thomas M. Joyce arrived at Knight Capital's Jersey City offices on Sunday, the fate of his company and the legacy of his long Wall Street career were in jeopardy. His lawyers were preparing a potential bankruptcy filing throughout the day, according to people briefed on the matter, and the company's last hope rested with an eclectic group of investors.But by 9 p.m., when Mr. Joyce departed for home while lawyers reached a deal over a meal of Chinese food, the crisis was largely contained. The Knight Capital Group, the company that Mr. Joyce nurtured into one of the most powerful brokerage firms on Wall Street, had just survived the most harrowing week in its 17-year history.
Hobbled by recent knee surgery and haggard from several sleepless nights, Mr. Joyce on Monday announced that Knight Capital had struck a $400 million deal with the group of investors, staving off collapse after a devastating trading mishap.
The rescue package, which was assembled and led by the Jefferies Group, includes investments from TD Ameritrade and the Blackstone Group. Getco, a high-speed trading firm, and the investment bank Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, also invested. 
The group appears poised to cash in on the deal. The investors are afforded the right to buy more than 260 million shares, or 73 percent of the firm, at $1.50 a piece. Before the trading blunder, the firm's shares traded above $10.
Under the terms of the deal, Knight will also expand its board by adding three new members from the investor group. Jefferies, which led the group with a $125 million investment, will take one seat.
"The array of participants in this capital infusion underscores Knight's critical role in the capital markets," Mr. Joyce, the firm's chairman and chief executive, said on Monday.
The lifeline capped a rapid recovery for a firm that, just days ago, was on the brink of collapse.
On Wednesday, Knight Capital sustained a $440 million trading loss stemming from a technology error that generated erroneous orders to buy shares of major stocks. The orders affected the shares of 148 companies, including Ford Motor, RadioShack and American Airlines, sending the markets into upheaval.
Despite the embarrassing setback, investors saw plenty of potential in Knight, a sharp contrast from times when other Wall Street firms - like Lehman Brothers and more recently, MF Global - faced extinction.
Knight, stumbling at a healthier time for the financial industry, had more choices. Mr. Joyce fielded about 100 phone calls from potential buyers, who coveted Knight's giant presence in the profitable electronic trading game. In the first half of the year, Knight accounted for 11 percent of all stock trading in the United States.
Still, the firm faces significant challenges. A company built on the strength of its technological prowess, Knight suffered a major electronic mishap that rattled investor confidence.
And the deal comes at a cost as it will significantly dilute existing shareholders of the company. Shares of Knight Capital fell more than 24 percent on Monday.
Most of the losses will be borne by mutual funds that owned 54 percent of Knight's outstanding shares before the trading errors, according to data from Morningstar. Fidelity and its mutual funds were the largest owners of Knight shares, holding 15 percent of the company, the fund manager reported in its most recent filings.
But the individual who has lost the most money since the problems last Wednesday may be Mr. Joyce. A longtime trader who rose to prominence at Merrill Lynch and at the Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, his 1.2 million shares dropped in value by about $9 million from last Wednesday to Monday.
Knight Capital also faces heavy regulatory scrutiny. The Securities and Exchange Commission is examining potential legal violations as it pieces together the firm's missteps.
The New York Stock Exchange said on Monday it "temporarily" reassigned the firm's market-making responsibilities for more than 600 securities to Getco, the trading firm that also invested in Knight. Market makers buy and sell securities on behalf of clients.
The problems for Knight Capital began on Wednesday when the New York Stock Exchange's opening bell rang. The Exchange opened a new trading platform - and Knight had tweaked its computer coding to push itself onto the system then.
But when Knight's new system went live, the firm "experienced a human error and/or a technology malfunction," the firm explained in a regulatory filing on Monday.
Chaos ensued. The error caused Knight to place unauthorized offers to buy and sell shares of big American companies, driving up the volume of trading and causing a stir among traders.
Mr. Joyce, who had knee surgery that week, went into work on crutches.
Knight later had to sell the stocks that it accidentally bought, prompting the $440 million loss. The loss would drain Knight's capital cushion and cause "liquidity pressures," the firm said in the filing.
The firm also consulted restructuring lawyers at Kirkland & Ellis on a potential Chapter 11 filing, according to people with direct knowledge of the matter who did not want to be identified because the negotiations were not public. The lawyers worked on the filing until about 4 a.m. on Monday, when a deal was mostly done.
As the firm's health soured, the S.E.C. kept a closer watch. The agency dispatched officials to the firm's Jersey City offices. In the agency's Washington headquarters, senior officials worked through the night in offices without air-conditioning to monitor the firm's liquidity position. The office's air-conditioning bad been programmed to shut off before midnight as an energy-saving measure.
But events soon turned in the firm's favor. Knight secured emergency short-term financing that allowed it to operate on Friday. Some of the firm's biggest customers, including Scottrade, said they had resumed doing business with Knight.
Investor interest was heating up, too. Citadel, a big hedge fund and trading firm, was interested in buying portions of the company. Jefferies was aiming to build a coalition of investors. By Friday night, Knight aligned with Jefferies, accelerating negotiations into the weekend.
Jefferies, which signed a document outlining the terms of the deal on Saturday night, had little trouble recruiting other investors. TD Ameritrade, the online brokerage house, ramped up its interest on Saturday after concluding the terms of the deal were reasonable, according to the people briefed on the matter.
One of the last to join was Blackstone, though it was well aware of Knight's business. The private equity company first approached Knight about a potential takeover just months ago, a person briefed on the matter said. Blackstone's chief financial officer, Laurence Tosi, knew Mr. Joyce from their days together at Merrill Lynch.
On Sunday, the deal teams were split into various locations. Some investors, including TD Ameritrade, remained with Mr. Joyce in Jersey City poring over Knight's documents. Others huddled at the Manhattan offices of White & Case, the law firm representing Jefferies in the deal.
In the evening hours, a deal looked promising. While firms typically need a shareholder vote to bless such a deal, the exchange allowed Knight to proceed because the firm's survival was at stake. The S.E.C. was monitoring Knight's compliance with capital rules. Robert W. Cook, the head of the agency's division of trading and markets, spent his birthday on Sunday tracking the final stages of the deal.
By 9 p.m., when Mr. Joyce left his offices, the deal was all but signed.
Jefferies would invest $125 million, Blackstone and Getco would spend $87.5 million and TD Ameritrade contributed $40 million. The payments came in waves over the next several hours, with the last few dollars rolling in just before the trading opened on Monday morning.
Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders meeting on Monday at the Barclays Capital post, which trades Knight Capital's shares at the New York Stock Exchange. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS) (B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (88%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: KNIGHT CAPITAL GROUP INC (74%); STIFEL NICOLAUS & CO INC (68%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (55%); JEFFERIES GROUP INC (55%); TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (55%); FORD MOTOR CO (53%); RADIOSHACK CORP (52%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (52%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (51%)

TICKER: KCG (PAR) (74%); KCG (NYSE) (74%); BX (NYSE) (55%); JEF (NYSE) (55%); AMTD (NYSE) (55%); FORDP (PAR) (53%); F (NYSE) (53%); RSH (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (74%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (74%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (53%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



238 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: In Weak Economy, an Opening to Court Votes of Single Women

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN; Robert Gebeloff contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS -- Being single, Alyson Sheradin had no one to rely on when the financial crisis hit. She lost the considerable savings she had tucked away after selling her business in 2002, and struggled to find work as a business consultant, recently moving in with a friend in the suburbs who does not charge her rent.Ms. Sheradin, 49, a registered Libertarian, voted Republican in 2008. But now, as she weighs competing inclinations -- she believes Americans should have health care but is wary of President Obama's plan; she bristles at burdens on small business but also at constraints on women's rights -- she is not so sure. ''I am definitely a swing vote,'' she said over a pizza lunch with single friends. ''I have no idea.''
As much as Ms. Sheradin is up for grabs in this election, so too are the legions of unmarried women who helped lift Mr. Obama to victory in 2008. Single women are one of the country's fastest-growing demographic groups -- there are 1.8 million more now than just two years ago. They make up a quarter of the voting-age population nationally, and even more in several swing states, including Nevada. 
And though they lean Democratic -- in a recent New York Times/CBS News poll, single women favored Mr. Obama over his Republican rival, Mitt Romney, by 29 points -- they are also fickle about casting their ballots, preoccupied with making ends meet and alienated from a political system they say is increasingly deaf to their concerns.
But the Obama campaign, needing their support to offset traditional Republican strength among married women, is lavishing attention on them. Mr. Obama and his allies are highlighting issues like Mr. Romney's support for cutting federal funds to Planned Parenthood, which they say resonate with single women and that help draw a contrast between the two sides. A new Obama ad calling Mr. Romney ''out of touch'' with average women on health and contraception issues began running last weekend in battleground states.
''It's a very Democratic voting population, but it's not registered or turning out at the same rate as their married counterparts,'' said Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster who has canvassed single women for the Voter Participation Center in Washington, pointing out that Mr. Obama had won among single women by a wide margin, but lost married women by three percentage points.
In 2010, though, turnout among single women, especially 18-to-29-year-olds, dropped more than for other groups, and Republicans won the women's vote for the first time in 30 years. ''The terrain is very fertile,'' Ms. Lake continued, ''but we have to till the field.''
In an election focused on the economy, single women present a complicated case. They already earn less than married people and single men, and they have not fared well during the Obama administration. They have had a harder time than married women paying rent, getting medical care and finding jobs. While the jobless rate for married women has stayed relatively low, at 5.6 percent compared with 2.6 percent before the recession, the rate for unmarried women has risen to 11 percent, from a prerecession level of 6 percent.
Still, polling and focus groups show that single women are reluctant to blame Mr. Obama for their economic woes and tend to approve of a greater role for government in crises. Their reliance on programs like welfare, food stamps and Medicaid has grown significantly since 2007. In 2010, 55 percent of their households got some form of assistance, not counting school lunches, compared with 18 percent of married women's households.
''There's definitely an opening'' for Republicans to court single women, said Courtney Johnson, who oversees women's outreach for the Romney campaign. ''I think women are looking for something different at this point. They're saying, 'I don't like how things are going right now.' ''
Both the Obama and the Romney campaigns say they are not drafting messages specifically for single women, even though single women have strikingly different concerns and voting habits than married women have. ''How many campaigns start out with an ad that shows a happily married candidate, perfect kids, and talk about the marriage tax credit?'' Ms. Lake asked. ''And you wonder why single women don't turn out to vote.''
The economy has damped enthusiasm among even core members of Mr. Obama's base. In 2008, Carolyn Essex, 52, a black single mother in Las Vegas, knocked on doors and held house parties for Mr. Obama.
Not this year. Ms. Essex and her 9-year-old son are a step away from homelessness, living in transitional housing. ''Right now,'' she said, ''what's more important is that I find a job.''
(After the interview, Ms. Essex was offered a job at a casino, but said she would continue to focus on attaining stability rather than the election.)
Democrats say single women are highly motivated by women's issues like threats to abortion rights, access to contraception and equal pay, arguing that what seem like social issues have a direct impact on their bottom line.
But Republicans insist those concerns have been trumped by the poor economy. ''Rome is burning -- our country's burning -- and you're concerned about these issues?'' asked Maureen Karas, southern director for the Nevada Federation of Republican Women. ''Birth control pills are like nine bucks. That's like two lattes.''
Democrats point to several races in which single women were the deciding factor, like the narrow victory of Senator Michael Bennet, a Democrat, in Colorado. More recently, though on a much smaller scale, women voters in a Democratic primary in North Las Vegas helped defeat a white male incumbent state senator, John Lee, in favor of a political newcomer, Patricia Spearman, who was outspent by a factor of 15.
Opponents of Mr. Lee made central issues of his support for restricting abortion rights and access to contraception. Fifty-four percent of the voters were women, and almost a third of them had never voted in a primary before, according to an analysis by Mr. Lee's opponents.
''When you educate people about these issues,'' said Annette Magnus, the public affairs manager for the Nevada Advocates for Planned Parenthood Affiliates, which helped campaign against Mr. Lee, ''they actually do go out and vote.''
Opinion research shows that single women are less responsive to issues that have no immediate bearing on their daily lives, like corporate tax rates or the federal debt.
Tabitha Farr, a 32-year-old divorced mother of two whose income as a waitress has plummeted since the recession, agreed. ''Deficit?'' she said. ''No. I think about, 'Can I pay for my child care this week?' ''
In several interviews, women of various political stripes said they believed that the president could do little to help them personally, or bolster prosperity in general.
''I feel like it doesn't matter how I vote, what I think. They're going to do what they're going to do anyway,'' said Jeannine Loewy, 35, a divorced mother of two and a hairstylist who has lost a quarter of her clients since the recession. ''And we just have to deal with it.''
That feeling may fuel one of the Democrats' great hopes -- that threats to abortion rights, attacks on Planned Parenthood and objections to the health care law's requirement that insurance plans cover birth control pills -- will prove to be more meaningful for single women than jobs plans.
''I don't think a new president will do much to help the economy,'' said Diane Jackson, 61, a former financial planner who is looking for work. ''But I do see Obama at least protecting us from a radical takeover on social issues.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICS (89%); WOMEN (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); MARRIAGE (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%) NEVADA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



239 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Why Investors Flee Equities? Hint: It's Not The Computers

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
Let's stop with the excuses.You've no doubt been reading a lot about a "crisis of confidence" on Wall Street in recent days after software problems at a big trading firm sent the stock market, briefly, into a tizzy.
Everyone is hyperventilating at the errant trades at the Knight Capital Group - suggesting, in the words of Arthur Levitt, that these malfunctions "have scared the hell out of investors." The problems at the firm were immediately lumped together with Facebook's glitch-filled initial public offering, the flash crash of 2010 and the rescinded public offering of BATS Global Markets, among others. 
Apparently - if the experts are to be believed - these computer errors are the reason "investors are fleeing the markets like never before," Dennis Kelleher, president of Better Markets, told The Los Angeles Times. Dozens of articles about the trading blunder included some form of that contention, using statistics showing that $130 billion or more had been withdrawn from mutual funds over the last year or so.
Let me offer a more straightforward explanation of why investors have left the stock market: it has been a losing proposition. An entire generation of investors hasn't made a buck.
"The cult of equity is dying," Bill Gross, the founder of Pimco, wrote in his monthly letter last week.
"Like a once bright green aspen turning to subtle shades of yellow then red in the Colorado fall, investors' impressions of 'stocks for the long run' or any run have mellowed as well," Mr. Gross wrote. His letter came after he had sent a Twitter post that read: "Boomers can't take risk. Gen X and Y believe in Facebook but not its stock. Gen Z has no money."
(Mr. Gross, who manages the largest bond fund in the world, started a stock fund several years ago, too, so he has a vested interest in seeing stocks succeed for his clients.)This is not to say that Knight Capital's software debacle is helping instill confidence in investors. But it's doubtful it would make a Top 10 list of reasons for investors to flee.
So why are so many investors sitting on their hands? The unemployment crisis, the European debt crisis and the looming fiscal-cliff crisis, to name just a few reasons. Economic growth is slowing, not just in the United States but in China, too.
Those are the same reasons that chief executives and boards of American companies are sitting on $2 trillion in cash and not investing in their own businesses. They are scared, rightly or wrongly, about the future. (It should be noted that some of the most skilled investors recommend staying in the game during such times. Warren Buffett famously advised that investors "should try to be fearful when others are greedy and greedy only when others are fearful." But it doesn't seem like that advice is being followed.)
Even the hedge fund titan Louis M. Bacon has been so humbled by the stock market that he returned $2 billion to his investors last week rather than risk losing it.
None of these fundamental issues have anything to do with a computer that ran amok or a trade order mistakenly entered by a fat finger.
Blaming computers is not a new phenomenon. In 1988, months after the 1987 crash, The New York Times explained that small investors shared a "fear of being whip-sawed by program trading."
"I think everybody is concerned about the flight of the small investor - the S.E.C., the exchanges, everyone," Howard L. Kramer, assistant director of the Securities and Exchange Commission's division of market regulation, said in another article, also in 1988.
Here are the numbers today: About $171 billion has flowed out of mutual funds over the last year, according to the Investment Company Institute, which tracks mutual fund data. Where has all that money gone?
Bonds. About $208 billion has flowed into the bond market over the same period, according to numbers from the I.C.I.
The fact that so few long-term investors are in the stock market has only worsened the volatility, since it often seems as if the only people who are trading stocks are the professionals.
Which brings us back to the "crisis of confidence." This does exist among investors, but they are not focused on how computers are making the markets go haywire. Rather, they are concerned about the future of the economy and, yes, trust.
Individuals are worried that it's hard to make the right bet and worried that the market is rigged against them. Much of this is an outgrowth of woes of Wall Street's own making, like insider trading cases or market manipulation scandals. Those situations are partly why individual investors don't believe they stand a chance against the professionals.
Consider this: Of 878 students at 18 high schools across 11 different states surveyed by the Financial Literacy Group, three-quarters of them said they agreed with this statement: "The stock market is rigged mostly to benefit greedy Wall Street bankers."
So for now, it seems, trading firms don't just need to throw out their electronic trading systems or bring in more regulators to oversee their stock executions. They need the country to get a shot in the arm to address its economic problems, and they need the public to have faith in the long term.
Instead of pointing the blame at one incident or another, look at the fundamentals.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill Gross of Pimco said ''the cult of equity is dying.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT EELLS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); SOFTWARE DEFECTS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); GENERATION Z (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); GENERATION X (72%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (72%); BOND FUNDS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); EURO CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (69%); KNIGHT CAPITAL GROUP INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (57%); BATS GLOBAL MARKETS INC (57%)

TICKER: KCG (PAR) (58%); KCG (NYSE) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (89%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



240 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
InternationalVAST POLICE OPERATION
TARGETS MIGRANTS IN GREECE
A vast police operation in Athens aimed at identifying illegal immigrants found that of 6,000 people detained over the weekend, 1,400 did not have proper documentation. A police spokesman called the sweep one of the largest ever by the force. PAGE A4
CHINESE LEADERS GATHER 
At least five senior Communist Party officials have arrived at the beachside resort of Beidaihe, including Xi Jinping, the man expected to be the next leader of China, setting the stage for what some analysts expect to be the climactic negotiations over the coming once-a-decade power transition. PAGE A6
INDIA'S STRAY DOG PROBLEM
No country has as many stray dogs as India, and no country suffers as much from them. Free-roaming dogs number in the tens of millions and bite millions of people annually, including vast numbers of children. An estimated 20,000 people die every year from rabies infections. New Delhi Journal. PAGE A4
National
WHITE HOUSE REJECTS
CRITICISM OF ADVISER
The White House defended David Plouffe, President Obama's senior adviser, for taking $100,000 in speaking fees before joining the government from a subsidiary of a company working with the Iranian government. PAGE A10
PAPER-SHREDDING THERAPY
City-sponsored shredding events, in which people dispose of personal documents in mobile shredding trucks, have become popular around the country as concerns have risen about identity theft. As those concerns have shifted from paper to the Internet, the shredding companies have responded by accepting hard drives and CDs. PAGE A9
New York
ALBANY LEGISLATORS PUSH
FOR STRICTER GUN LAWS
In the wake of mass shootings in Colorado and Wisconsin and an uptick in gun violence in New York City, lawmakers are planning a new push in Albany to win approval of tighter gun laws in New York State. One measure would require background checks for anyone buying ammunition. PAGE A19
HORACE MANN'S REACTION
The board of the Horace Mann School announced a plan for prevention programs in reaction to accusations of past sexual abuse of students by faculty members. The school pledged that all of its employees would undergo a ''comprehensive background check.'' PAGE A18
Business
INVESTORS SEEK OUT
FINANCIAL SAFE HAVENS
With the world in financial turmoil, and Treasury bond yields at record lows, American investors are turning to places like Norway, Sweden, Canada and Australia as safe havens. These countries offer little of the risk, or the outsize returns, that were so alluring to investors before the financial crisis. PAGE B1
FED OFFICIAL URGES ACTION
A senior Federal Reserve official said that the employment data released last week had reinforced his previous view that the Fed must take action to increase economic growth. He said the Fed should once again expand its holdings of mortgage bonds and Treasury securities. PAGE B1
TAKEOVER BID FOR BEST BUY
Best Buy has been hit by declining sales and an ever-fiercer competitive landscape dominated by Wal-Mart Stores and Amazon.com. Now, the troubled retailer's founder is betting that he and a handful of lieutenants can turn around the company's fortunes. PAGE B1
Sports
THIGH-POPPING SUCCESS
LIES IN THE QUADS
In track cycling, everything seemingly emphasizes the sleek and the slim except the thick, bulky and somewhat frightening quadriceps of the competitors. Cyclists rely on quadriceps, in all their massive, veined glory, to power them to success. PAGE B7
SPRINTER'S STOP QUESTIONED
Track and field's world governing body expelled, then later reinstated Taoufik Makhloufi of Algeria after he stopped running in an 800-meter heat. Algerian officials said that he withdrew because his knee was injured, not because he was tanking. After being examined by doctors, Makhloufi prevailed. PAGE B7
Arts
AN UPDATED 'AIDA'
FOR TURBULENT TIMES
The offerings at this year's Glimmerglass Festival in Cooperstown, N.Y., grapple head-on with issues of longstanding religious and sectarian conflict, particularly a new production of Verdi's ''Aida'' set in present-day Egypt. There are moments when the contemporary imagery is stunning and poignant, writes Anthony Tommasini. PAGE C1
SURPRISES AT EVERY TWIRL
Each year a central feature of the two-week Vail International Dance Festival, high in the Rockies, is its two consecutive International Evenings of Dance. This year's presentations were distinguished by catholic taste and brilliant programming, writes Alastair Macaulay. PAGE C1
SKEWERING SEATTLE'S ELITE
Maria Semple's razor-sharp send-up of privileged Seattle, ''Where'd You Go, Bernadette,'' is a novel about a fish-out-of-water mother, her Microsoft-star husband and a back story shrouded in mystery. Review by Janet Maslin. PAGE C1
Science
X-RAY SCANS AT AIRPORTS
LEAVE LINGERING WORRIES
There are 244 full-body ''backscatter'' X-ray scanners in use at 36 airports in the United States, but questions persist about the safety of using them on such a large scale. A recent study reported that radiation from the machines can reach organs through the skin. PAGE D1
Op-Ed
JOE NOCERA PAGE A21
FRANK BRUNI PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMAL CONTROL (90%); DOGS (90%); BONDS (89%); SHOOTINGS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (87%); GUN CONTROL (86%); TREASURY SECURITIES (84%); IDENTITY THEFT (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); TAKEOVERS (71%); PARENT COMPANIES (71%); APPROVALS (71%); RABIES (69%); FIREARMS (68%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (68%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (64%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (60%); BOND MARKETS (60%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (93%); CHINA (93%); GREECE (92%); CANADA (79%); NORWAY (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



241 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Business Fears the Fiscal Cliff

 BODY:
So it turns out that federal spending is important to the economy after all.As Nelson Schwartz reported in The Times on Monday, a number of manufacturers say they are canceling plans for investing and hiring, in part, because they fear that some $100 billion in budget cuts will take effect in 2013. In all, the law currently calls for $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts over 10 years, starting Jan. 1, divided between nondefense programs and defense projects. 
Republican lawmakers demanded the cuts last year as part of their brinkmanship over the debt ceiling, and business lobbies have generally supported slashing the deficit. But now that the cuts are imminent, corporate executives seem to have realized that the last thing the economy needs is a large budget cut across the board.
They're right about that. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the combined impact of the automatic spending cuts plus the scheduled expiration of the Bush-era tax cuts -- the so-called fiscal cliff -- would cause the economy to contract in the first half of 2013. Some business leaders seem to think the solution is for Congress to act as soon as possible to avert the spending cuts and to extend all of the tax cuts. That would avoid an economic downturn next year, but it would also mean no progress toward long-term deficit reduction.
The best approach is to delay the blow of lower federal spending, thus shielding businesses from a sudden drop in support, and, at the same time, temporarily extend the Bush-era tax cuts for most Americans and let them expire for those making more than $250,000 a year, as President Obama has proposed. That would raise revenue and be a credible step toward long-term deficit reduction, without harming the recovery, because high-end tax increases do not cut deeply into consumer spending.
Politically, such a deal can probably be struck only in 2013, after the spending cuts have kicked in and the tax cuts have expired, assuming Mr. Obama wins re-election. Republican lawmakers, confronting the consequences of the spending cuts, would have to come to the conclusion that delaying both defense and nondefense spending cuts would be best for today's economy. As for the tax cuts, letting them all expire could pressure Republicans to renew them for the middle class, while letting them end for the rich.
That is crucial because higher taxes for top earners is necessary for the nation to begin to raise the revenue it needs. And until the rich pay more, there will never be a national consensus for tax increases on middle-income Americans, which will eventually be needed to further curb long-term deficits.
Even business leaders are starting to complain. Now it is up to Democrats to force Republicans to rework the coming spending cuts and tax increases in a way that benefits most Americans and the broader economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX INCREASES (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TAX RELIEF (88%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (85%); LOBBYING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



242 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: If Assad Falls in Syria

 BODY:
President Bashar al-Assad's security forces are continuing to kill Syrians in huge numbers, but the opposition's chances of prevailing look better than they did six months ago. The challenge for the United States and its partners is not just to step up the pressure, but also to prepare the ground for a constructive future for Syria.The opposition scored a psychological victory on Monday when Prime Minister Riyad Farid Hijab defected to Jordan. Opposition leaders said that he brought along at least two ministers and three military officers. Mr. Hijab, a Sunni Muslim, wasn't part of Mr. Assad's inner circle, but he was the most senior civilian official and his defection is another sign of stress on the regime. 
The rebels are challenging the Syrian Army in the cities of Damascus and Aleppo, but the fighting is likely to get worse. The conflict has already intensified splits among the Sunni, Alawite and Christian communities; displaced thousands within Syria; sent thousands of refugees into neighboring countries and threatened to destabilize the region. And there is increasing evidence that Al Qaeda and other jihadists have joined the fight.
The most viable diplomatic solution was a plan by the United Nations and the Arab League that would have eased Mr. Assad out of power and begun a democratic transition. But Russia -- with Iran, Mr. Assad's main protector -- ensured it would fail by arming the regime and refusing to impose sanctions.
The Obama administration and NATO have wisely resisted direct military involvement. That may change if, for example, Mr. Assad tries to use chemical weapons against his people.
For months, the administration has been increasing its involvement with the rebels -- organizing a 130-nation pressure group, working to unify opposition factions, helping them plan a political transition, providing intelligence and medical aid and vetting which groups are extremists and which should get arms.
The administration has also begun to think beyond Mr. Assad's fall by planning how to cope with a new wave of refugees, maintain basic municipal services, restart a devastated economy and prevent the security forces from disintegrating. American officials seem to have learned the lesson of Iraq, where the government collapsed, leaving chaos behind. There is no guarantee Syria's rebels will want the help, but the administration has to be prepared to invest real money in these plans if they do.
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton will have a chance to emphasize support for the rebels when she visits Turkey later this week. The United States also needs to intensify sanctions on Syria and keep urging Russia to cooperate in ending the conflict.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); ARMIES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); PEACE PROCESS (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); AL-QAEDA (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); REFUGEES (74%); DISPLACED PERSONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) SYRIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); JORDAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



243 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Being Sikh in America

BYLINE: AMARDEEP SINGH


HIGHLIGHT: Born in Queens to Sikh immigrants, the author talks about the difficulties of maintaining a Sikh identity while living in the U.S. 

 BODY:
On Sunday, my wife and I were having a quiet brunch with friends at home in Pennsylvania when the phone started ringing. First my parents called from their home in Maryland. Then a cousin called from India. "Have you seen what's on CNN? There's been a shooting at a gurdwara in Wisconsin " I felt a familiar emptiness. I had felt the same way after the morning of September 11, 2001. 
Then, as now, Sikhs in the United States faced a common problem: many Americans presume that all men in turbans are Muslims. Just a few days after 9/11, a man named Balbir Singh Sodhi was shot down in Arizona in just such a case of mistaken religious identity. Other attacks followed in the coming months. Many Sikhs initially reacted with a blend of bewilderment and outrage at the seeming injustice. And yet that response -- "we didn't do anything, we don't deserve this" -- was not adequate, even if understandable. No community "deserves" this type of hostility. Would it be any less tragic if the victims in Wisconsin had been Muslims gathering for Friday prayers?
On Monday, the shooter in Wisconsin was identified as Wade Michael Page, a U.S. Army veteran reportedly associated with white supremacist groups. Surely more details and clarity on the shooter's motives will emerge in the days to come, but at this point it seems reasonable to assume that he targeted Sikhs because they looked like enemies of his own twisted version of the American ideal. 
In the fall of 2001, I had just started a new job as an assistant professor in the English department at Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. In the weeks after the terrorist attacks, I felt intense hostility whenever I was away from the protected space of the college campus. The hostility wasn't simply a matter of small-town xenophobia; that fall, I also heard ugly taunts and insults, some threatening violence, on the streets of Philadelphia and even in New York. I felt spooked, and like many other Sikhs I put a bumper sticker on my car with a U.S. flag that announced me as a "Sikh American." About a year later, everyone started to calm down and I put my feelings from that first year behind me. (And yes, I eventually took the bumper sticker off the car.)
To its credit, the Sikh community realized very quickly that it wouldn't do to simply say, "Don't hate me, I'm not a Muslim." Sikhs got organized shortly after 9/11, forming advocacy organizations, chief among them the Sikh Coalition. These groups were emphatic that they opposed hate crimes directed against any group based on religious hostility. To spread awareness, Sikh groups also distributed educational materials and bought advertisements to try to reduce ignorance about the Sikh turban. 
In light of the Wisconsin shooting, many Sikhs are now suggesting that we renew our educational efforts about Sikhs and Sikhism. These are well-meaning and valuable efforts, but here's the thing: I am not sure that the shooter would have acted any differently even if he had known the difference. 
As I have experienced it, the Sikh turban reflects a form of difference that can provoke some Americans to react quite viscerally. Yes, ignorance plays a part and probably amplifies that reaction. But it may also be that visible marks of religious difference like the Sikh turban are lightning rods for this hostility in ways that don't depend on accurate recognition.
I am not sure why the reaction can be so visceral -- perhaps because wearing a turban is at once so intimately personal and so public? Walking around Philadelphia waving, say, an Iranian flag probably wouldn't provoke quite the same reaction. A flag is abstract -- a turban, as something worn on the body, is much more concrete and it therefore poses a more palpable symbol for angry young men looking for someone to target. Whether or not that target was actually the "right one" was beside the point for the Oak Creek shooter.
I am by no means suggesting Sikhs not wear turbans to avoid hostility. But I also don't think we should fool ourselves that all hostility will be resolved purely by education, nor should we presume that this shooter suffered only from ignorance. As a white supremacist, it seems safe to suppose, what mattered to the shooter was that he hated difference -- and saw, in the Sikh gurdwara at Oak Creek, a target for that hatred.
I am at a loss right now as to how to understand this tragedy, or how I might explain it to my 5-year old son (we haven't told him about it and don't plan to). I was born in Queens, after my parents joined a wave of South Asian doctors who came to the United States after immigration laws were reformed in 1965. They initially planned to return to India but decided that the economic opportunities would be better for them in America.
At times, living in the United States has seemed like an amazing privilege for my family. This year, we were out waving our little American flags with the rest of the neighborhood during the July 4th parade in our suburban Philadelphia town. And yet a senseless event such as this one reminds one how awfully precarious the American dream can be. Perhaps my son will have to learn that lesson, as I did in the weeks after 9/11 more than a decade ago. But I hope, for his sake, that the moment doesn't come too soon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SIKHS & SIKHISM (96%); RELIGION (93%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); SHOOTINGS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); ARMIES (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (50%) Sikhs and Sikhism; Sikh Temple of Wisconsin; Wisconsin

ORGANIZATION: Sikh Temple of Wisconsin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%) WISCONSIN, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (92%); ASIA (58%) Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



244 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Painted Black, Nissan NV200 Taxi Is Poised for London Duty

BYLINE: PHIL PATTON


HIGHLIGHT: The van is based on the same model selected earlier this year as the official taxi vehicle of New York City. 

 BODY:
The Nissan NV200 van, the same model chosen to be New York's Taxi of Tomorrow, was announced on Monday for service in London.
In its new livery, the NV200 seems instantly more dignified and solid than its yellow cousin. Call it a rolling testament to the power of black paint.
Nissan says the van, with sliding doors and seating for five, meets all requirements, however esoteric, laid down by London's transport office. Among these is a 25-foot turning radius that, like so many things British, is grounded in legend and custom, ostensibly deriving from the dimensions of the tight rotary at the entrance to the Savoy Hotel.
Though some advocates for disabled passengers in New York criticized the Nissan for lacking a full-scale wheelchair ramp and complete access, advocacy groups in London have endorsed the new London design, according to a press release from Nissan.
As in New York, Nissan plans to conduct a field test next year of purely electric versions of the taxi.
A significant distinction between the London cab and its American counterpart is the use of a diesel power plant. The New York version uses a 2-liter 4-cylinder gasoline engine, while the London unit, displacing 1.5 liters, is said by Nissan to hold a 50 percent advantage in fuel efficiency over the city's traditional black cabs.
In America, opposition to diesel emissions remains strong. The World Health Organization recently classified diesel fumes as a carcinogen. Nissan has long built diesel engines for the London taxi, and members of the Licensed Taxi Drivers' Association have expressed their enthusiasm for the 2.7-liter diesel unit supplied by Nissan for an earlier version of their traditional black cab, the TX4. Nissan expects the predicted reductions in carbon emissions and improvements in fuel economy to win over the skeptics.
"The NV200 London Taxi's Euro V engine only emits up to 138g/km of CO2, compared with 209g/km from the 'greenest' TX4 model," Nissan said in its release.
The new engine would enable the mayor, Boris Johnson, whose administration has already updated the Routemaster double-decker bus, to present the new taxi as part of his air quality improvement program.
"Improving air quality in London is one of the most important challenges I face as mayor," Mr. Johnson said in the statement issued by Nissan. "Having taken the significant step of introducing the first age limit for taxis in London, I am absolutely delighted that manufacturers are stepping up to the plate and are responding to the challenge I set in my air quality strategy to reduce taxi emissions and improve efficiency." 
"Stepping up to the plate?" Something doesn't seem quite cricket about that line.

        
For a New York Minute, Ford Transit Connect Is a Taxi of Tomorrow
        
The Last Crown Vic Rolls (but Not as a New York Cab)
        
Karsan's Taxi Introduces Itself to Potential Passengers
        
When Redesigning the Taxi, Don't Forget Roof Romance
        
Wheelies: The Circuit Breaker Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); DIESEL FUEL (87%); AIR QUALITY (86%); GREENHOUSE GASES (86%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); SPECIAL NEEDS TRANSPORTATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); POWER PLANTS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (64%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (52%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (51%); CARCINOGENS (50%) E.V.; London; New York City; Nissan; Nissan NV200; taxi; Taxi and Limousine Commission; Taxi of Tomorrow; Automobiles; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Taxicabs and Taxicab Drivers; Nissan Motor Co; London (England); Electric Vehicles; Industry News; New Cars

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (54%) Nissan Motor Co

PERSON: BORIS JOHNSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (73%) London (England)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



245 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: British Bank Fights U.S. Charges of Dealing With Iran

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: As a bank operating on Wall Street, Standard Chartered must play by the rules or suffer the consequences. But is the U.S. pushing others to fight its battles in the sanctions campaign against Iran? Is it working? 

 BODY:
LONDON - Standard Chartered, the British bank accused of covering up billions of dollars of sanctions-busting transactions with Iran, has come out fighting against the allegations.
In the court of public opinion, banks these days are assumed to be guilty until proven innocent, a perception reinforced by a sorry procession of banking executives mumbling excuses for transgressions that fueled the financial crisis and distorted supposedly free markets.
There were no excuses from Standard Chartered, however, on Monday after the New York State Department of Financial Services claimed that the bank's alleged illicit dealings had left the U.S. financial system "vulnerable to terrorists, weapons dealers, drug kingpins and corrupt regimes."
Instead, the bank said it "strongly rejects" the position taken by the state's top banking regulator and denied any dealings linked to terrorists, insisting it had ceased all new business with Iranian customers five years ago.
My colleague Jessica Silver-Greenberg provides a full account of the allegations against Standard Chartered and the bank's response.
But whatever the outcome of investigations of the alleged money-laundering at the bank, the charges against Standard Chartered have reignited another debate that focuses not on banks, but on the extra-territorial reach of U.S. legislation. 
Allister Heath, writing on Tuesday at the London-based City A.M., said there was no defense for wrongdoing by any British bank operating on Wall Street that broke U.S. law. But he warned of the threat of further extending the reach of U.S. law.
"There is a risk otherwise of extreme extra-territoriality and of the U.S. imposing its foreign policy on every single foreign company that has dealings with any U.S. citizen, let alone that has U.S. operations," Mr. Heath wrote. 
He even suspected a hidden motive in the Standard Chartered affair. "It will also fuel fears that the U.S. has it in for the U.K. and that it is now trying to put the City back in its place."
The charges may also prompt a re-examination of the scope and utility of sanctions against Iran.
Like the United States, the European Union has its own strict sanctions against financial dealings with Iran. The measures have been put in place in the absence of wider international consensus within the United Nations Security Council on using sanctions to halt Iran's perceived efforts to pursue a nuclear bomb-making capability.
The sanctions issue is nevertheless a much hotter public issue in the United States than among Europeans, even inserting itself into the 2012 presidential election campaign.
Jennifer Rubin, a conservative American blogger, accused the Obama administration of belatedly rushing though fresh Iran sanctions at the end of last month primarily in response to the success of a visit to Israel by Mitt Romney, the Republican contender.
There is also an active American lobby in favor of pressing foreign companies to cut remaining ties with Iran.
Standard Chartered was itself among the targets of a "name and shame" campaign by United Against Nuclear Iran (U.A.N.I.), a non-profit group headed by Mark Wallace, a former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations.
U.A.N.I., which gave Standard Chartered a clean bill of health in May after it pulled out of Iran, returned to the attack on Monday by saying the penalties the bank now faced in the light of the latest allegations "should serve as notice to all entities and financial institutions that they will be held accountable for their business with such an unscrupulous regime."
The pro-sanctions lobby can certainly argue that the measures against Iran are having an impact. The Iranian currency, the rial, is in free fall as the country braces for a fresh devaluation brought on by the economic restrictions.
But will the economic hardships of the Iranian people encourage the regime to change track on the nuclear issue?
Leon Panetta, the American Secretary of Defense, has insisted sanctions against Iran were working, even if "the results of that may not be obvious at the moment."
Iran regards the U.S.-led sanctions as illegal and the Tehran Times recently accused Washington of "heavy-handed bullying" of other countries that were harming their own interests by joining its sanctions regime.
Innocent or guilty, the last thing Standard Chartered needs right now is sympathy from Tehran.

        
Why Saudi Oil Pledge Could Prove Hollow
        
What Syria Looks Like From Tehran
        
Braying for Diamond - and his $30 Million
        
Banking Culture Blasted in Backlash Against Greed
        
Can Iran Play a Part in Syria Solution?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (83%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (83%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); LOBBYING (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); ARMS TRADE (74%); TERRORISM (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); MONEY LAUNDERING (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (66%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (62%); CONSERVATISM (62%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (62%) banking; Iran; sanctions; standard chartered; Banking and Financial Institutions; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Standard Chartered Bank PLC; Featured; View From Europe

ORGANIZATION: Standard Chartered Bank PLC

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%); MITT ROMNEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



246 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Why Attack American Muslim Women in Government?

BYLINE: SOUAD MEKHENNET


HIGHLIGHT: With some conservative politicians pointing suspicious fingers at American Muslim women involved in government and activism, I talk to some who fear a witch hunt and an erosion of American values. 

 BODY:
Is it fear, a lack of knowledge or their sincere belief that drives some American politicians to question the loyalty of some high-profile Muslim women working for the U.S. government?
For my latest Female Factor column, I spoke with four Muslim women who work for government in the United States about the anguish they are experiencing and what these attacks on them say about America and democracies. Some questions they raised:
Are we heading back to a time where people will be identified - and condemned - based on the views that some of their relatives hold? And how can democracies, where Islamophobia seems to be increasing, argue that they should be role models for tolerance of minorities for others ?
Voters in Europe and the United States seem to be attracted to candidates who speak about Islam as if it is a religion of terror, one of the people I interviewed said. "And with an increasing collapse of economies, we just fear that anti-Muslim sentiments will increase," she said.
But what worries the women I interviewed the most is that, with increasing Islamophobia, democracies, like the one in the U.S., are losing what used to be the principles of their very way of life. 
"Our parents came here because the society did not look at what religion you had but at how hard you worked," one of the women said. She had always been proud to be American because, unlike in some European countries, in the U.S. she was not made to feel different from non-Muslims, until the 9/11 attacks.
But now these American Muslim women are asking themselves if some "democratic" countries might one day relinquish some of their principles and give in to anti-Muslim bigotry and suspicion. 
"What will happen to the freedom of religion, when you have to fear to get attacked just because you are Muslim?" asked one.
Then there is the risk of being blamed at some point for the positions or affiliations of your relatives. There are real echos of McCarthyism in America today. 
The suspicions around Linda Sarsour, a community worker from Brooklyn and one of the high-profile Muslim women being assailed, rose from family members who had been in Israeli jails and were possible supporters of radical groups. Though she had several times denied any connections to radical Islamic groups, some people argue she should be held accountable for her relatives' activities and views.
In Bahrain, which was rightly criticized for human rights violations and abusing anti-government protesters, the new minister of state for information, Sameera Rajab, happens to be the cousin of Nabeel Rajab. Mr. Rajab is an activist and head of a human rights group. He is one of the strongest opponents of the ruling family and right now in jail for comments he made on twitter.
"Would Ms Rajab have gotten the same position in the U.S. as a Muslim, if her family member was against the U.S. government?" one of the women asked herself. Then, she answered, "I don't think so, because she is Muslim."

        
The Tea Party Senators
        
France Passes a Tougher Sexual Harassment Law
        
What Roles Do Nature and Nurture Play in Constructing Boys and Girls?
        
'SlutWalk' and 'Girlcott': Women Fight Sexual Violence in India
        
England Faces Modern Britain - From Race and Soccer to Women Bishops and Gay Rights

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); WOMEN (91%); WOMEN WORKERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); TERRORISM (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); FAMILY (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (64%) Islam; Islamophobia; Tea Party; women and girls; Muslim-Americans; Featured; Page Two

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); BAHRAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



247 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Imagine City Hall After Bloomberg

BYLINE: CLYDE HABERMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The Day: While thinking about the next mayoral election, the indispensable-man theory endures for many New Yorkers. 

 BODY:
 By the time August arrived, many New Yorkers were despairing of their choices for the next mayor. Despite the reservations many had about the incumbent at City Hall, a consensus had formed that, all in all, he'd done a good job. But the bunch that would follow him? Would you trust any of them to run the city?
 "None of the guys out there are qualified to do it," a one-time restaurateur in SoHo said. "Everybody out there is scary." In the West Village, a woman said she was "a little apprehensive." She wished she could vote for the incumbent again but, alas, a term-limits law prevented him from seeking re-election.
 That was in 2001. The mayor was Rudolph W. Giuliani. 
 A lot of New Yorkers had wearied of him and his hockey-enforcer style of governance. But plenty of others, pleased with lower crime rates and cleaner streets, fretted about what would happen after he took his final bows. For them, the indispensable-man theory had kicked in, the notion that all would be lost without the familiar ruler on the ramparts. And this was before 9/11 transformed Mr. Giuliani into a heroic figure, at least for a while. He, too, decided he was indispensable, and sought to cling to office beyond the expiration date.
 Among the many suspect mayoral candidates that year was a businessman named Michael R. Bloomberg, who was of course very rich but seemed to have no other qualifications.
 Somehow, we've survived without Mr. Giuliani at the helm, as a few among us knew we would. Yet the indispensable-man theory endures. It's as if these last 11 Giuliani-free years taught some New Yorkers nothing. They include editorialists and columnists. One hears the same tired question from them as they survey the present field of would-be mayors, only now they ask it in regard to Mr. Bloomberg:
 How will we get along without him?
 The next mayoral election is 15 months away. But it's not so distant that people are unable to begin paying attention to it.
 Talk of a new savior is especially rife in Republican circles, with speculative articles being written about the possibilities for the party's finding someone strong enough to take on the eventual Democratic primary winner. Democrats have become remarkably adept at bombing in New York mayoral elections. They've lost the last five, a streak that once upon a time was as unimaginable as the American basketball team's getting blown out of the Olympics in the early rounds.
 But who might be this latest Republican savior to follow Messrs. Giuliani and Bloomberg?
Raymond W. Kelly, the police commissioner, whose views on everything other than crime are more of a mystery than Mitt Romney's taxes? John Catsimatidis, whose billions might impress New Yorkers a bit more if they thought highly of his Red Apple and Gristedes supermarkets? Tom Allon, a publisher of community newspapers who is not exactly a household name?
 Such is the speculative state of affairs that in recent days State Senator Malcolm A. Smith of Queens has surfaced in the Republican chatter, an interesting turn considering that his brief tenure as Senate majority leader did not invite comparisons to the Age of Pericles. Oh, and did we mention that he's a Democrat?
 There is no question that New Yorkers want strong mayors, to the point that they can be spellbound by self-styled saviors.
 Casting themselves as such worked for Mr. Bloomberg and his henchperson in the City Council, the speaker Christine C. Quinn, when they negated the existing term-limits law to make it possible for them to stay in office an extra four years. That was in 2008, after the economic crisis had hit full force. Their continued leadership was essential, they said, and voters bought that line.
 Indeed, without them in charge, who knows what terrible things might have happened to the city's unemployment rate (an unpalatable 10 percent in June) or to its homeless rolls (18,246 children and 25,279 adults in shelters at the end of last week, among the highest totals in many decades)?
 Lost in the political dialogue are those cautionary words offered long ago by Charles de Gaulle, who was president of France before he became a Paris airport. The graveyards, de Gaulle said, are full of indispensable men.
 New York leaders are not the only ones who have trouble remembering that. Many New York voters do, too.

        
Answers About New York City Politics
        
Bloomberg Staying Out of New Jersey Slugfest
        
New York, New York (and New York)
        
Using the Power of the Purse to Steer Politics
        
After Same-Sex Marriage, Same-Sex Divorce

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CRIME RATES (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (84%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); TERM LIMITS (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%); WRITERS (62%); BASKETBALL (60%) Elections; Mayors; Michael R. Bloomberg; Rudolph W. Giuliani; Bloomberg, Michael R; Giuliani, Rudolph W; New York City; The Day

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); JOHN CATSIMATIDIS (58%); MITT ROMNEY (54%) Bloomberg, Michael R; Giuliani, Rudolph W

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



248 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Minnesota Minefield for a Best Buy Deal

BYLINE: STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF


HIGHLIGHT: Richard Schulze, the founder and owner of 20 percent of Minnesota-based Best Buy, has made a preliminary offer to take the electronics chain private. But the board holds all the cards, thanks to Minnesota law. 

 BODY:
Before Richard Schulze can acquire and turn around Best Buy, he needs to come to terms with the State of Minnesota. 
Mr. Schulze is the founder and owner of 20 percent of Minnesota-based Best Buy. On Monday, he went public with a proposal to acquire Best Buy from $24 to $26 a share in cash. 
Mr. Schulze likely announced his bid to force the Best Buy board into considering a deal, but there's another strategic reason for this announcement. 
 Minnesotans, famous for their niceness, don't seem to like hostile takeovers very much. The state has adopted some of the stricter antitakeover laws in the country. 
Mr. Schulze's letter was clearly aimed at addressing the problem he confronts from one of these statutes, the Minnesota business combination act, which is adopted word-for-word in the company's certificate of incorporation. 
The business combination act requires that a: 
public corporation may not engage in any business combination. . . . with, any interested shareholder of [Best Buy] or any affiliate or associate of the interested shareholder for a period of four years following the interested shareholder's share acquisition date unless the business combination or the acquisition of shares made by the interested shareholder on the interested shareholder's share acquisition date is approved before . . . . prior to the interested shareholder's becoming an interested shareholder on the share acquisition date. . .
An interested shareholder is a shareholder who owns 10 percent or more of the company. The share acquisition date is the first date that the interested shareholder exceeds this amount.
This statute is quite strict. It means that before any person can acquire 10 percent or more of Best Buy, the acquisition must be approved by a committee of disinterested directors. If the approval is not obtained before the threshold is passed, then the acquirer has to wait four years to squeeze out the remaining shareholders. 
Compare this with Delaware's business combination statute, which applies only to shareholders who acquire 15 percent or more of the company and requires a wait of only three years. Even thereafter, the acquirer can still squeeze out the minority shareholders by obtaining a 66.66 percent vote of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the interested stockholder.
Mr. Schulze has held his 20 percent interest long enough so that the four-year period wouldn't apply, but this statute would ordinarily require him to obtain approval to acquire even one more share. The banks will want Mr. Schulze and his partners to gain approval to acquire the company before they will agree to billions in financing, meaning that any acquisition is impossible if this statute applies. 
In truth, this is not such a problem, since Mr. Schulze really can't acquire additional shares of Best Buy without the board's approval anyway because the board can just adopt a poison pill to prevent this. Instead, Mr. Schulze is trying to push the board into a friendly deal and get any necessary approval under Minnesota's antitakeover statutes.
But the real problem is a quirk in the business combination statute. Once Mr. Schulze takes on a partner to bid for Best Buy, the partner will be deemed part of a new group of interested shareholders. This sets off application of the business combination statute and the four-year waiting period. 
The consequence is that Mr. Schulze can't make any arrangements with partners until the board approves. Otherwise, he and his partners will be effectively barred from acquiring Best Buy for four years. And because the statute is broadly worded as to what constitutes a partnership, Mr. Schulze really can't have more than preliminary talks with partners or he risks activating the statute.
But it appears that the Best Buy board is hesitant to allow him to arrange such partnerships.
The Minnesota business combination statute provides Mr. Schulze some help to push the issue. Now that Mr. Schulze has announced his proposal, the law requires the board to form an independent committee of disinterested directors to consider the offer and make a decision within 30 days. By putting forth even this highly conditional proposal, Mr. Schulze has set the clock ticking. 
But again, Minnesota law works against Mr. Shulze. In Minnesota, companies are not required to sell to the highest bidder. Instead, boards can choose to "consider the interests of the corporation's employees, customers, suppliers, and creditors, the economy of the state and nation, community and societal considerations, and the long-term as well as short-term interests of the corporation and its shareholders including the possibility that these interests may be best served by the continued independence of the corporation." 
This legal standard provides the board substantial leeway to not only pick the buyer but to decide not to sell because of a variety of reasons, including perhaps the leverage that Mr. Schulze may put on the corporation and the employee cuts it may bring. 
So what comes next? Well, the board of independent directors has a tough decision. Since the board really holds the cards, it may just say no, but the it may just allow him to speak to his partners without further addressing the offer. To not do so may make the board seem recalcitrant, and it doesn't tie the board to any sale decision anyway. 
Thereafter, Mr. Schulze would have to come through with a firm offer. Right now, his financing is not secure. Instead, Mr. Schulze's financial adviser, Credit Suisse, has issued a "highly confident" letter. 
Such a letter is a relic from the 1980s, when banks refused to commit to risky financing, Michael Milken and Drexel Burnham would step in to say that while a commitment was not forthcoming, the bank was highly confident it could raise the money. But that doesn't mean financing is certain or even that there is a contractual obligation to provide financing. (In Mr. Schulze's defense, he is not likely to have signed a commitment letter anyway at this stage because it would have cost him too much in fees.)
Mr. Schulze will still not only have to arrange financing but persuade a private equity partner to help him buy this struggling company. It's not the easiest feat in the world in this market, and it may be yet another reason why the Best Buy board is hesitant to let him pursue what may be an errant chase. 

        
Jefferies Raises Questions About Schulze's Best Buy Holdings
        
Best Buy Founder Makes Bid for a Takeover

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); COMMON STOCK (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); DIVESTITURES (69%) Best Buy; Boards of Directors; Delaware General Corporation Law; Minnesota; Richard Schulze; Schulze, Richard M; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Best BUY Company Inc; Credit Suisse Group A.G; Best BUY Company Inc|BBY|NYSE; Credit Suisse Group A.G|CS|NYSE; Deal Professor; Legal/Regulatory; Mergers & Acquisitions; Retail/Leisure

ORGANIZATION: Best BUY Company Inc; Credit Suisse Group A.G

TICKER: Best BUY Company Inc; BBY; NYSE; Best BUY Company Inc; BBY; NYSE; Credit Suisse Group A.G; CS; NYSE

PERSON: Schulze, Richard M

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Minnesota

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2012



249 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: What Influences Consumers to Buy or Rent Their Homes

BYLINE: TARA SIEGEL BERNARD


HIGHLIGHT: Eight-five percent of people say that owning makes more sense than renting. Why would they feel that way after the housing crisis? 

 BODY:
Even the deepest housing crisis since the Great Depression wasn't enough to dampen Americans' desire to own their homes.
A recent studyby Fannie Mae came to that conclusion and tried to answer some major questions: What influences consumers' current home ownership status? What would motivate people to buy versus rent in the future? And are we influenced by unconscious biases that lead us to make less than ideal choices, such as buying too much house, or others that might prevent a well-qualified renter from buying at all?
Interactive Graphic: Is It Better to Buy or Rent?
Naturally, Fannie Mae -- the government-owned housing agency -- has a reason for investigating: the answers to these questions have implications for housing policy makers and the industry. And the survey found that home ownership still appealed to the majority of Americans: 85 percent said owning makes more sense than renting over the long term, and 64 percent of those polled said that they would buy a home if they were going to move.
The survey, which analyzed Fannie's monthly housing survey data for all of 2011, looked at three different groups of consumers: renters, homeowners with a mortgage, and those who own their homes outright. (The Fannie Mae National Housing Survey polls 1,000 adults each month across the United States with more than 100 questions about the economy, household finances and owning and renting; this study's full-year data includes information from more than 12,000 people.)
Researchers found that demographics -- including income, age, marital status and employment status -- were the primary drivers behind individuals' current home ownership status, as well as what influenced outright homeowners' future intentions to own or rent. And perhaps not surprisingly (particularly when mortgage underwriting is tighter) homeowners with mortgages were more likely to be middle-aged, married and employed full time with higher incomes, whereas the converse was true for renters. Outright owners tended to be older, more likely to be retired, widowed and past their peak earnings years, the study said.
But the intentions of renters and people with mortgages to buy or rent as their next move were largely driven by their financial and housing attitudes, the study said. The most influential belief was whether they thought "owning or renting makes sense financially over the long term," which influenced all three groups, and especially renters. The perceived ease or difficulty of getting a mortgage influenced the intention of homeowners with mortgages, the study said, but wasn't as big a factor for renters.
Meanwhile, the study results also found that once consumers buy a home, get a mortgage and have a positive experience owning, they wanted to continue to own. But concerns about affordability -- both for the home purchase itself and upkeep -- was a major factor that discouraged renters from taking the plunge.
"For renters and mortgage-owners, aspirations for and belief in home ownership play a major role in decision-making, possibly forming a 'home ownership optimism' in determining whether they expect to own or rent in the future," the study said.
"It is possible that many of these drivers, especially the attitudinal ones, act as automatic or unconscious biases that lead consumers to less fulfilling and less successful housing choices," the researchers said, adding that further research is necessary.
The researchers also found that exposure to default, perceived appreciation or depreciation in home value, and self-reported underwater status had only a minimal effect on predicting whether a consumer intended to buy or rent for their next move.
What influenced your decision to buy or rent? Are you satisfied with your decision? And has the housing crisis altered your views on home ownership?

        
Year-Over-Year Home Values Rise for First Time in Five Years, Zillow Says
        
Rent Increases Suggest Buying Is Becoming a Better Deal
        
New Battle on Providing Real Estate Agent Performance Data
        
New Rules Proposed for Mortgage Servicers
        
Credit Sesame Offers New Mortgage-Comparison Tool

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); STATISTICS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (63%) Buying a Home; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Renting and Leasing (Real Estate); Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae); Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae)|FNMA|OTCBB

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae)

TICKER: Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae); FNMA; OTCBB

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012



250 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Romney's Job Growth Promises

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney has promised to create 12 million jobs in the next presidential term. Is that aim bold, overly optimistic -- or pretty much what some economists already expect? 

 BODY:
Last week, Mitt Romney declaredthat if his new, one-page economic policy plan were implemented, the country would add "12 million new jobs by the end of [his] first term."
Now, usually politicians (BarackObamaincluded) get hammered for overstating how much the economy will improve under their watch. But by at least some forecasts, Mr. Romney's promises may actually be a little underambitious, in that his promised job growth is pretty close to what's already expected.
In its semi-annual long-term economic forecast released in April, Macroeconomic Advisers projected that the economy would add 11.8 million jobs from 2012 to 2016. That means Mr. Romney believes his newly announced policies would add an extra 200,000 jobs on top of what people already expected, or a jobs bonus of about 2 percent. The more jobs the better, of course, but that's not really much to write home about.
Moody's Analytics, another forecasting firm, projects similar job growth:
In an e-mail Monday, Mark Zandi, the chief economist at Moody's Analytics, emphasized that he actually expects the economy to remain on about the same path regardless of who is elected:
The forecast is agnostic with regard to who is elected in November. The key assumption is that whoever wins they will reasonably gracefully address the fiscal cliff, increase the Treasury debt ceiling without major incident, and achieve something close to fiscal sustainability.
My view, is that the economy's fundamentals are much improved, as households deleverage, the financial system re-capitalizes, and American businesses become global competitive. Moreover, the construction cycle is on the verge of turning up significantly, which by itself will create a boat load of jobs, particularly in 2014-15. If policymakers can get it roughly right soon after election, all of this will shine through quickly.
Not everyone is so upbeat.
Jan Hatzius, the chief economist at Goldman Sachs, told me that he has not developed explicit forecasts that go through the end of 2016, but he says he expected an average job growth of just under 150,000 a month from now through the end of 2013.
Given those expectations for the start of the next presidential term, he said that Mr. Romney's promise of job growth averaging 250,000 a month over the next four years "would be quite a good outcome."
Additionally, the Congressional Budget Office's latest long-term economic forecast, released in January, showed that employment would grow by just 10 million from the first quarter of 2013 to the first quarter of 2017, the dates of the next presidential term. (Two asides: The numbers are the same if you use the last quarter of 2012 through the last quarter of 2016. Additionally, note that the C.B.O.'s forecast refers to the number of workers employed, as opposed to the number of payroll jobs in existence, which was the metric in the other forecasts cited.)
That C.B.O. forecast implies that Mr. Romney would be promising an extra 2 million jobs, or a 20 percent bonus from what's already expected. Pretty impressive.
By law, though, the Congressional Budget Office must base its projections on the laws that are on the books rather than on what Congress is expected to do. That means that the office's forecast assumes the "fiscal cliff" -- with its sharp tax increases and deep spending cuts -- materializes at the end of this year. Most economists do not believe Congress will allow this to happen.
Needless to say, the C.B.O.'s jobs numbers would probably look stronger if they likewise assumed Congress does not allow the country to go over the cliff. In that case, Mr. Romney's job growth premium would be at least somewhat less impressive.
So what to make of all these figures?
First, as you can probably tell from both these forecasts and the events of the last decade, there is a huge margin of error when it comes to predicting economic trends for the next week, let alone the next four years. So it's very hard to judge whether a promised gain of 12 million jobs under Mr. Romney's policy overhaul significantly deviates from what would happen without the overhaul.
Perhaps the more important corollary, though, is that there's a huge margin of error in what Mr. Romney is promising, too. And that's true for just about any economic forecast you hear from any politician (or pundit or journalist for that matter).
Politicians throw out lots of different numbers for what the economy will do under the assumption that their exact agenda is passed, which is a pretty unrealistic assumption in the first place. Even if their policies do sail through the sausage factory that is Washington unscathed, there's no telling what effect they'll have when they move out of the world of bullet points and into the actual economy. So take any forecasts you hear from either presidential campaign with a boulder-size grain of salt.

        
Slight Decline in the Jobs Outlook
        
Latest Data Doesn't Move the Political Needle
        
A Downward Trend, and Maybe a Nail-Biter
        
'Soft Patch' on Jobs, With Election on Horizon
        
A Darkening Jobs Picture

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICS (77%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (77%); TRENDS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); DEBT CEILING (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (69%) 2012 election; employment; fiscal policy; forecasting; jobs; Mitt Romney; models; presidential election; Romney, Mitt; Economic Conditions and Trends; Forecasts; Labor and Jobs; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; United States Politics and Government

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (73%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



251 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Buoyed by 'Avengers,' Disney Profit Surges 24 Percent

BYLINE: BROOKS BARNES


HIGHLIGHT: The entertainment company, often viewed as a window into consumer confidence, beat analysts' expectations. 

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES - The success of the film "Marvel's The Avengers" and the "Cars"-related expansion of a theme park powered the Walt Disney Company to a 24 percent increase in quarterly profit, well ahead of expectations, the company reported Tuesday.
Disney, with operations ranging from movies to hotels to baby clothes, is closely watched as a barometer of consumer confidence. Lately, however, that correlation has seemed out of alignment. Why is Disney surging when the frail economy has people keeping a lid on discretionary spending?
The answer may be that consumers simply see Disney's recent offerings (with a few notable exceptions) as attractive ways to spend their money.
Many people grumble that Disney's parks are expensive, but they also seem to see the value. Attendance was strong in the quarter at both Walt Disney World in Orlando, Fla., and at Disney's California Adventure park in Anaheim, Calif., where a lavish "Cars"-themed parcel recently opened as part of a $1.1 billion overhaul. Disney said per capita guest spending at its domestic resorts increased 8 percent. Add in strong bookings for a new cruise ship and a return to normal at Tokyo Disney Resort after last year's earthquake, and operating income at Disney's parks unit rose 21 percent, to $630 million.
Similarly, "The Avengers" has taken in over $1.5 billion at the global box office, in part because that superhero film prompted consumers to pay more - $3 to $5 more per ticket - to see it in 3-D. For the quarter ended June 30, Walt Disney Studios reported operating income of $313 million, an increase from $49 million a year earlier. Disney announced on Tuesday that Joss Whedon, who directed "The Avengers," would return for a sequel and help develop a Marvel-related property for the company's ABC broadcast network.
Fans were also shopping briskly during the quarter at Disney's mall-based retail stores, where "Avengers"-themed merchandise and new locations helped the company's consumer products division report a 35 percent increase in operating income, to $209 million.
Disney's long-suffering Internet division even looked healthier, improving to a loss of $42 million, compared with a loss of $86 million in the same period a year ago, mainly because of increased traction in social games. (Disney told analysts that the coming quarter might be more difficult, however, because of the release of fewer console games.)
Robert A. Iger, Disney's chief executive, called the results "phenomenal" in a statement, adding that the totals were "the largest quarterly earnings in the history of our company." Disney had net income of $1.83 billion, or $1.01 a share, compared with $1.48 billion, or 77 cents a share, in the year-ago quarter. Analysts had been expecting income of 93 cents a share.
Revenue for the quarter, the third in the company's fiscal year, climbed 4 percent, to $11.09 billion, held down because of a timing shift in the recognition of ESPN-related affiliate fees. At Media Networks, the Disney unit that includes ESPN, ABC and cable channels like ABC Family, operating income climbed 2 percent, to $2.13 billion. ESPN did suffer higher production costs tied to a shift in timing for National Basketball Association games and higher rates for N.B.A. and Major League Baseball programming.
In recent years, some analysts have questioned Disney's high level of capital and acquisition spending, citing global economic weakness. But the most recent quarter offered a strong endorsement of the investment strategy set by Mr. Iger.
"The Avengers" was made by Marvel Entertainment, which Disney acquired in 2009 for $4 billion. Cars Land cost about $450 million, but it seems to have turned around California Adventure, a park that languished for a decade because of underinvestment by Mr. Iger's predecessor.

        
At Shareholder Meeting, Disney Commits to Hire 1,000 Veterans
        
In Filings, Disney Rebuffs Criticism of Shareholders Advisory Service
        
Iger Says No Hurry to Replace Regis Philbin
        
Disney's Iger to Step Down in 2015
        
Iger on Steve Jobs: 'He Pushed You'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); FILM (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); RESORTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); RETAILERS (76%); TICKET SALES (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); CRUISES (66%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (63%); EXECUTIVES (62%); COMPUTER GAMES (60%) Robert A. Iger; The Walt Disney Company; Iger, Robert A; Company Reports; Walt Disney Company; The Avengers (Movie); Walt Disney Company|DIS|NYSE

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (95%); WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (84%); WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Walt Disney Company

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (95%) Walt Disney Company; DIS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (95%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (95%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (95%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (95%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (84%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT A IGER (89%) Iger, Robert A

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



252 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: New Romney Ad Attacks Obama on Welfare Waivers

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The Romney campaign released a new attack ad Tuesday alleging that the Obama administration is "gutting" the welfare-to-work program, though as governor Mr. Romney advocated a similar approach. 

 BODY:
Seven years ago, Mitt Romney joined other governors to urge the federal government to grant "increased waiver authority" to states to experiment with implementation of the federal welfare-to-work program.
But as he runs for president, Mr. Romney and his Republican allies are now accusing President Obama of "gutting" the welfare program by saying it will consider waivers to states.
On Tuesday, Mr. Romney elevated that argument to a new level, releasing a new attack ad accusing Mr. Obama of quietly announcing "a plan to gut welfare reform by dropping work requirements." 
"Under Obama's plan, you wouldn't have to work and wouldn't have to train for a job. They just send you your welfare check," the ad says.
Mr. Romney's campaign bases that accusation on concerns expressed by conservatives who say they fear new waivers for states could be used to undermine the federal rules that were overhauled in 1996 to require welfare recipients to work or receive training.
An assessment of Mr. Obama's waiver change by the Heritage Foundation describes it as a "trick to get around work requirements."
"The new welfare dictate issued by the Obama administration clearly guts the law," the Heritage Foundation concluded. "The administration tramples on the actual legislation passed by Congress and seeks to impose its own policy choices - a pattern that has become all too common in this administration."
In a memorandum released Tuesday, Lanhee Chen, Mr. Romney's policy director, writes that Mr. Obama's willingness to grant waivers to states reflects a desire to do away with work requirements that were central to the reforms of the mid-1990s.
"This policy change undermines the very premise of welfare reform," Mr. Chen writes. "It is an insult to Americans on welfare who are looking for an opportunity to build better lives for themselves. And it is a kick in the gut to the millions of hard-working middle-class taxpayers struggling in today's economy."
The president's campaign calls those accusations absurd, noting that the recent requests for waivers came from five states, including two - Utah and Nevada - which are governed by Republicans.
A defense of the president's action on his campaign Web site notes that "states say that their caseworkers spend more time completing paperwork than helping people get work." The waivers are aimed at giving states flexibility to address that problem, Mr. Obama's campaign says.
"Waivers that weaken or undercut welfare reform will not be approved," the campaign writes. "Waivers will not be granted to avoid time limits on when assistance may be provided. The only waivers that will be granted will test approaches that can do a better job at promoting work among families receiving assistance."
The president's campaign notes the letter that Mr. Romney and more than a dozen other governors wrote in 2005, seeking more flexibility.
"By joining some in his party to falsely criticize a policy that empowers states to implement welfare reform, Romney has made it clear that he is far more interested in another political attack against the president than he is in actually finding solutions," Mr. Obama's campaign writes.

        
Obama Administration Defends Change to Welfare-to-Work Program

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%) welfare; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Heritage Foundation; Elections

ORGANIZATION: HERITAGE FOUNDATION (84%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (82%) Heritage Foundation

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (92%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



253 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Americans for Prosperity Begins $25 Million Anti-Obama Ad Campaign

BYLINE: JEREMY W. PETERS


HIGHLIGHT: Americans for Prosperity, the Tea Party organization backed by the Koch brothers, is set to begin a $25 million advertising assault aimed at President Obama, its largest effort to date. 

 BODY:
ORLANDO, Fla. - Americans for Prosperity, the Tea Party organization backed by the Koch brothers, is set to begin a $25 million advertising assault aimed at President Obama, its largest effort to date.
The ad campaign is the latest example of how independent political groups funded by a small number of wealthy donors are shaping the presidential campaign in key swing states. Conservative groups and "super PACs" have been particularly aggressive, pummeling Mr. Obama on the airwaves as Mitt Romney's campaign waits until after the Republican National Convention -- when it will be legally permitted to spend the hundreds of millions of dollars it has raised in recent months -- to ramp up its advertising efforts.
American for Prosperity said that the first of several ads would begin appearing on Wednesday in 11 battleground states, including here in Florida. The campaign will last for three weeks - extending through Labor Day weekend - and includes Colorado, Iowa, Minnesota, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Wisconsin.
The first ad, titled "President Obama: A One-Term Proposition," hits the president over the rising national debt - an issue that conservative political groups like Americans for Prosperity and American Crossroads, which is run with the help of Karl Rove, believe is particularly powerful with swing voters in this election.
The commercial focuses on an excerpt from an interview Mr. Obama gave to NBC News at the beginning of his term in which he pledged to cut the debt. It was during that interview that he uttered the phrase that his rivals now regularly use against him: "I will be held accountable."
The Obama administration has faulted the Republicans as failing to reach a budget deal to help close the deficit, saying the party's opposition to raising revenues through higher taxes and by closing loopholes is the main reason more progress has not been made on this front. Democrats also note that when President Obama came into office, he inherited a growing budget deficit from President Bush.
The ad takes a relatively straightforward approach, avoiding hyperbole or over-the-top negativity. An image of the national debt clock appears on screen for much of the ad, ticking ever higher. It ends with Mr. Obama's words, "If I don't have this done in three years, then there's going to be a one-term proposition."
The ad goes a step further than Americans for Prosperity's previous knocks against the president. Those ads focused on specific policies of the Obama administration like energy, an important distinction under campaign finance rules. This new ad campaign will take aim directly at the president, forgoing the issue ad approach but perhaps opening the group up to greater scrutiny.
The group is a tax-exempt organization whose ads must be primarily issues-focused, although the efforts of such groups have faced increasing scrutiny by advocacy organizations who accuse them of treading into overtly political activities. 
This campaign is the first time the group has expressly advocated for Mr. Obama's defeat in an ad. "We don't take this lightly," said Tim Phillips, president of Americans for Prosperity. "We've always stayed away from express advocacy. But given the president's disastrous record, we felt this was necessary."
Subsequent ads in this campaign will feature the personal stories of Americans who have been hit hard by the economic collapse, Mr. Phillips added.

        
Walker Receives Prank Call From Koch Impersonator
        
Ad Watch: Obama Campaign Seeks to Recast Romney as Tax Raiser
        
Obama Speaks Directly to Camera in New Ad
        
After Killings at Theater, Campaigns Suspend Their Ads in Colorado
        
New Romney Video Features Singing Obama

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (87%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (70%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); TAX LAW (62%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (55%) americans for prosperity; Charles Koch; David Koch; Political Advertising; National Debt (US); Presidential Election of 2012; Americans for Prosperity; Ad Watch

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: Americans for Prosperity

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); KARL ROVE (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



254 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Iran Inquiry Is Abrupt Reversal for Standard Chartered

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Standard Chartered, which has thrived so far during Europe's debt crisis, faces costly fines in an investigation of its financial dealings with Iran. 

 BODY:
6:07 p.m. | Updated 
LONDON - Long a golden child among global banks, the British bank Standard Chartered now wears a somewhat tarnished crown.
The bank's investors were rattled by accusations that it had schemed with the Iranian government to hide $250 billion in money transfers over nearly a decade. On Tuesday, shares of Standard Chartered fell as much as 25 percent - their sharpest one-day decline in more than two decades - before recovering to end London trading down 16 percent. 
The accusations upset a widely held view of Standard Chartered as a banking success story, thanks to its large operations in emerging markets in Asia and elsewhere. 
 Unlike other European financial institutions hit by the Continent's debt crisis, Standard Chartered, a London-based bank with roots that date to 1853, continued to report rising profits. Last week, the bank said its net profit for the first half of the year rose 11.3 percent, to $2.86 billion. Around 90 percent of the profit came from developing economies.
Central to Standard Chartered's business is its ability to facilitate trade between emerging economies and developed countries by clearing transactions in New York City. That ability came under threat on Monday when New York State's top banking regulator, the Department of Financial Services, said it had grounds to revoke the bank's license in the state. The bank must appear before the state's banking superintendent on Aug. 15 to explain why that should not happen.
Standard Chartered's New York office, which has been licensed since 1976, primarily operates a dollar-clearing business, moving roughly $190 billion a day. It also does corporate lending, trade finance, foreign exchange trading and wire transfer services, among other business. 
The regulator has accused the bank of masking more than 60,000 transactions for Iranian banks and corporations, pocketing millions of dollars in fees.
Senior management at the bank used the New York branch "as a front for prohibited dealings with Iran - dealings that indisputably helped sustain a global threat to peace and stability," the regulator said.
The accusations cast a shadow over Peter Sands, the bank's chief executive, who was the company's financial director from 2002 to 2006. Mr. Sands had been mentioned as a potential future head of the rival British bank Barclays.
Standard Chartered has gone on the defensive, rejecting the New York regulator's portrayal of the facts. The bank said that 99.9 percent of the transactions related to Iran complied with regulations.
The bank's "review of its Iranian payments also did not identify a single payment on behalf of any party that was designated at the time by the U.S. government as a terrorist entity or organization," it said in a statement.
Penalties connected to the money laundering case may cost Standard Chartered around $1.5 billion, according to Cormac Leech, a banking analyst with Liberum Capital in London.
Mr. Leech said the firm also could lose an additional $1 billion from a cutback in business operations connected to Iran, as well as $3 billion in market value if some of the bank's senior executives, including Mr. Sands, are forced to resign.
However, analysts said on Tuesday that loss of the bank's ability to operate in the United States was unlikely because authorities had focused their attention on monetary fines.
Still, the damage to Standard Chartered's reputation and the continuing investigations into the bank's activities with Libya, Myanmar and Sudan may weigh on earnings in the short term, according to Chintan Joshi, a banking analyst with Nomura in London.
The money laundering accusations come at a broadly difficult time for British banks.
Barclays agreed to a $450 million settlement with American and British officials in June after some of its traders and senior executives were found to have altered the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, for financial gain.
HSBC apologized last month for not cracking down soon enough on money laundering activities in the United States. David Bagley, the head of compliance for HSBC since 2002, resigned last month because of the scandal.
Analysts said Standard Chartered's emphasis on emerging markets would help to limit the long-term effects of the allegations.
Last week, the bank said it planned to open more branches in countries with fast-growing economies, like China and India, as it exploits a decline in its competitors' trading activity. Standard Chartered also reported double-digit growth in its wholesale and consumer banking divisions during the first six months of the year.
Before the money laundering accusations were made public, shares of the bank outperformed other financial institutions. Over the last 12 months, Standard Chartered's stock rose 10.4 percent, compared with a 12.8 percent drop in the Stoxx Europe 600 Banks index.

        
Citi's Pandit Finds More Love (for Banks) Abroad
        
Bankers Put Focus on 'Real Economy'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (78%); WIRE TRANSFERS (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MONEY LAUNDERING (61%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (50%) New York State Department of Financial Services; Peter Sands; Standard Chartered; Money Laundering; Department of Financial Services (NYS); Standard Chartered Bank PLC; Iran; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

ORGANIZATION: Department of Financial Services (NYS); Standard Chartered Bank PLC

PERSON: PETER SANDS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); ASIA (79%) Iran

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2012



255 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: In $440 Million Trading Error, Upside of Wall St. Failures

BYLINE: STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF


HIGHLIGHT: The Knight Capital debacle follows a long list of Wall Street failures, but in this capitalist system, weak players are discarded so stronger players can survive. 

 BODY:
The near implosion of the Knight Capital Group on an accidental $440 million trading loss may make many feel that Wall Street firms are on automatic self-destruct with the timer set to go off fairly soon.
The truth may instead be that the finance industry not only has fewer missteps than the rest of corporate America, but that sometimes failure is a good thing.
The wunderkinds at Knight Capital certainly did seem to blow up the joint. The market maker's trading program ran amok over the course of 45 minutes last Wednesday morning, leading to $440 million in losses. At best, this was an unintentional programming malfunction, but whatever the cause, it was a stupendous error that necessitated a rescue of the firm on Monday by a group of investors.
And the Knight Capital debacle follows a long list of Wall Street failures. In the last few years, Lehman Brothers, Bear Stearns and MF Global have destroyed themselves. Before that, Drexel Burnham Lambert filed for bankruptcy in 1990, Barings in 1995, Long-Term Capital Management in 1998, Refco in 2005 and Amaranth Advisors in 2006. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, the savings and loan scandal resulted in a spate of bank liquidations. In the 1970s, there was the implosion of the Wall Street financial institution Goodbody & Company, and in the decade before, the failure of Ira Haupt & Company.
While you may look at horror when you see this record, Wall Street is actually better than average in the failure department these days.
Look at corporate landmarks like Eastman Kodak and American Airlines, which are now in bankruptcy. Last year, 86 publicly traded companies went bankrupt, according to bankruptcydata.com, with an average filing size of $1.2 billion. Only 4.7 percent of these companies were in finance or banking. Since 2000, 1,768 public companies have filed for bankruptcy, but only about 6 percent have been financial and banking companies.
Putting this in perspective, about 15 percent of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is made up of financial companies. Financial and banking companies appear to have a lower rate of failure than the rest of corporate America.
Even so, this doesn't mean that failure is bad. Failure is a necessary component of the creative destruction that the Austrian economist Joseph Schumpeter wrote about.
Schumpeter's theories have been extrapolated by free-market advocates into an explanation of how dynamic, capitalistic economies renew themselves through failure.
Normally, Americans take this failure as the price to pay for a successful capitalist system. The nation does not seem terribly upset about the fall of Kodak, or before it, Polaroid. These companies failed to adapt and change, and if you buy into creative destruction, they were eclipsed by swifter, faster companies like Shutterfly and Instagram.
Obviously, these events are terrible for the employees and communities involved, but you don't see this bring new cries for regulation to prevent Kodak from going under.
The question is whether creative destruction is different on Wall Street, and if so, can we even stop it.
Creative destruction certainly hasn't gone away. In recent years, we've seen the creation of boutique investment banks like Moelis & Company and Evercore. Hedge funds have gradually captured significant trading volume from the investment banks. Knight Capital itself was a symbol of the rise of the market makers, which compete with the exchanges for trading business.
These newer entrants counteract what has been the huge consolidation in the investment banking industry over the last 40 years. Investment banks swallowed each other only to be subsequently acquired by big commercial bank holding companies. Lehman Brothers, for example, was an agglomeration of a number of storied banks like Kuhn Loeb, E. F. Hutton and Shearson/American Express. Lehman's remnants are now part of Barclays and Nomura.
In other words, Wall Street is continuously evolving. In such a place, failure, as it does everywhere in corporate America, must occur. This is the way weak players are discarded so stronger players can survive and provide better and more stable services.
In this system, the dumb must also go. In the case of Knight Capital, regulators appeared to agree, declining to make any exceptions for the firm.
The difference is that finance is about risk, and when financial companies collapse, it can happen quickly, with extensive harm to others. When a bookstore chain goes bankrupt, people are inconvenienced and there are losses, but the losses are mostly containable.
In finance, however, the collapse of a single firm can jeopardize the system, and as with Knight Capital's teetering on the brink last week, it can happen very quickly. We're all understandably on edge about that because of the financial crisis.
The chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Mary L. Schapiro, said before the rescue that Knight's trading debacle was "unacceptable." There is also public hand-wringing by commentators that we need to go after computerized trading.
It may well be that we need more regulation of computer trading, but we also have to realize that failure will happen with financial firms, and that this is part of the weeding out. It's not just acceptable, but desirable.
Firms that can't manage their risk should be replaced by firms that can. If we instead regulate these firms so they take no risk, finance will dry up. The existence of a financial system is a trade-off for the benefits that finance can provide. And yes, there are benefits, like credit and financing for a $15 trillion economy.
The trick is to strike the right balance. That is actually what the much-criticized Dodd-Frank Act does - allowing firms to take risk but tempering that risk-taking with regulatory oversight. Dodd-Frank also creates a new insolvency system for banks that pose systemic risk to manage the inevitable failure.
But Dodd-Frank's insolvency net would not have activated for Knight because it wasn't systemically important. Instead, the normal system worked to minimize the impact of Knight's losses and absorb it. In other words, the near failure of Knight was a success for Wall Street, showing that it can manage the inevitable collapse.
All told, it may be that new rules are needed in light of Knight, but it should also be recognized that we can't just regulate failure away without eliminating risk, too. And we can't have a financial system without both.
The Deal Professor column on the DealBook page on Wednesday, about the near collapse of the Knight Capital Group after a trading debacle, paraphrased incorrectly from a comment by the chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Mary L. Schapiro. She said that the trading malfunction at Knight that led to $440 million in losses was unacceptable. She did not say that a failure of the firm would be unacceptable.

        
A New Wall Street Photo Meme: Bankers Carrying Boxes
        
Economist: Blame Government for the Crisis

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%) Amaranth Advisors; Barings; Bear Stearns; Drexel Burnham Lambert; Lehman Brothers; Long-Term Capital Management; MF Global; Refco; Banking and Financial Institutions; Bankruptcies; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Knight Capital Group Inc; Knight Capital Group Inc|KCG|NYSE; Deal Professor; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: KNIGHT CAPITAL GROUP INC (74%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (54%); SHUTTERFLY INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Knight Capital Group Inc

TICKER: KCG (PAR) (74%); KCG (NYSE) (74%); SFLY (NASDAQ) (50%) Knight Capital Group Inc; KCG; NYSE

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (74%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (74%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (74%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS812921 PHOTOFINISHING LABORATORIES (EXCEPT ONE-HOUR) (50%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); SIC7384 PHOTOFINISHING LABORATORIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2012



256 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: Heavy Burden on Athletes Takes Joy Away From China's Olympic Success

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS; Patrick Zuo and Jacob Fromer contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- When Liu Xiang, China's track and field superstar, crashed to the ground at the London Olympic Games on Tuesday after stumbling over the first hurdle in his 110-meter men's hurdles heat, an announcer on the state broadcaster openly wept and subway riders thronging platform television screens gasped in horror.But instead of the scorn and anger that met Mr. Liu four years ago when a similar injury to his Achilles' tendon forced him from the Olympic stadium in Beijing just before the race began, the overwhelming majority of those using the nation's most popular microblog site reacted with magnanimity and grace.
''I believe, I steadfastly believe that Liu Xiang is our hero,'' wrote one user on Sina Weibo. ''He was, he is, and he always will be.'' 
Within an hour of Mr. Liu's dramatic tumble, millions had posted messages, most of them supportive and laudatory. If there were voices of disgust, they were directed at the Chinese government, with its rigid Soviet-style sports system and a single-minded fixation on winning gold medals.
''With this oppressive national sports system, he only had one choice -- to win respect and hurt himself,'' one fan wrote. Another writer called the tumble ''an entire generation's tragedy.''
By any measure, this should be a season of unvarnished celebration for China. It has pulled slightly ahead of the United States in the battle for medals, and the Games have produced a new national hero in Sun Yang, the first Chinese man to win an Olympic gold in swimming.
But in recent days, a tide of self-doubt and introspection about the human costs of China's Olympic prowess has arisen amid worries that the nation's draconian sports system is sometimes producing damaged goods. Floundering athletes can even be cast aside after their careers are over -- a point driven home last year when a former gold medal gymnast was found begging on the streets of Beijing. According to the state media, 240,000 retired athletes are grappling with injuries, poverty and unemployment.
Sometimes the victors inadvertently reveal the sacrifices they were forced to endure during their years of training. Last week, shortly after winning her third Olympic gold medal, the Chinese diver Wu Minxia was told that her grandparents had died years earlier and that her mother had been diagnosed with cancer. Ms. Wu's father explained that the family preferred to lie to his daughter all those years rather than risk harming her Olympic prospects.
''We accepted a long time ago that she doesn't belong to us,'' the father, Wu Yuming, told a Shanghai newspaper. ''I don't even dare think about things like enjoying family happiness.''
Like many Chinese athletes, Ms. Wu had been plucked from her family as an adolescent and sent to live at a state-financed sports academy, where training is grueling. Many athletes do not see their families for years. Last week, after Lin Qingfeng claimed a gold medal in men's weight lifting, his father told reporters that he did not recognize his 23-year-old son, whom he had not seen for six and a half years, until he heard his name mentioned on television. ''It's been a long time,'' Mr. Lin's mother said, ''since he's had a meal at home.''
Yan Qiang, a veteran sportswriter, defended China's emphasis on winning medals, saying they have helped to unify the nation. ''We still need gold medals to boost social morale,'' he said in an interview. ''The people need it. And the athletes are willing to gamble their youth for a brighter tomorrow.''
The obsession with Olympic glory is inextricably tied to the country's recent history. In the first half of the 20th century, Chinese intellectuals called their nation ''the sick man of Asia,'' lamenting its failure to produce Olympic-worthy athletes. Shortly after founding the People's Republic of China, Mao Zedong sent a delegation of 40 men and women to the 1952 Summer Games in Helsinki, Finland; all but one arrived too late to compete.
In the decades that followed, China boycotted the Games to protest the participation of Taiwan, the breakaway island China still considers a province. It was not until the 1980 Winter Games in Lake Placid, N.Y., that Beijing returned to the Olympic fold.
In 1984, it won its first cache of gold medals during the Summer Games in Los Angeles. Still, in the years that followed, Chinese athletes struggled to make their mark beyond sports like pistol shooting, table tennis and badminton.
The Communist Party set out to change that in 2002, when it began Project 119, a program that uses prodigious state resources and relentless training to groom potential gold medalists in sports like swimming, gymnastics and track and field.
Dong-Jhy Hwang, a historian at the Graduate Institute of Physical Education at National Taiwan Sport University, noted that for many years China's competitive fires were constrained by Mao, who proclaimed that during international sports events, friendship mattered more than competition.
The shift was perhaps best personified by the outburst last week of Wu Jingbiao, who sobbed uncontrollably to a Chinese camera crew and apologized for ''shaming the motherland'' after winning a silver medal in a men's weight lifting event. A female weight lifter, 17-year-old Zhou Jun, was branded a ''national disgrace'' by a provincial newspaper after she finished in last place. (The newspaper later apologized after a firestorm of indignation raged across the Internet.)
Such episodes have persuaded a growing number of sports journalists, athletes and other Chinese that there has to be another way. ''We should treat all medalists as equal,'' said Tan Jianxiang, a sports professor at South China Normal University. ''Whatever the color, a medal is a tremendous honor.''
David Yang, a writer at Sports Illustrated China, complained that most young Chinese are singularly focused on academics and are given little opportunity to take part in sports at school. He urged the government to abandon its separate top-down factory approach and embrace a universal system of physical activity that would allow most young people to experience the joys and health benefits of athletics.
''By reforming the system,'' he said, ''we can unleash the potential of 1.3 billion Chinese to win gold medals for the state while doing something for their physical well-being.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); SPORTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); TRACK & FIELD (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); WRITERS (69%); CANCER (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); HUNAN, CHINA (88%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



257 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: In Columbus, Ohio, an Arts Belt Is Thriving

BYLINE: By JAMIE DUFFY

 BODY:
COLUMBUS, Ohio -- The transformation of the Short North -- a 14-block artsy strip here -- from scruffy to chic began in the 1980s. And the scrappy neighborhood, which connects downtown Columbus to the sprawling campus of Ohio State University, has defied the recent economic downturn by continuing that evolution with a string of new developments.Developers just broke ground on the city's first full-service boutique hotel, the Joseph, at the south end of the Short North. The hotel is part of a $59 million multi-building project. Several residential developments are also under way and city officials have committed public funds to consider ways to improve the infrastructure in the area.
Supporters of the Short North describe it as a place where bohemians, lower-income city dwellers and better-off suburban residents come to mix and to find an eclectic groove that can be found nowhere else in Ohio. ''It is now, frankly, the premier arts district in the nation,'' said Mayor Michael B. Coleman of Columbus. 
But it wasn't always so. In the 1980s, the Short North, so named by the Columbus police for dispatch calls that fell short of being in the northern part of the city, was the ''kind of place where you locked your door and hit the gas pedal,'' said John Angelo, executive director of the Short North Alliance, a group of business and property owners.
Filled with great red brick commercial stock and side streets lined with grand old houses, the area eventually started to draw artists and gay people. Historic preservation commissions were formed to protect Victorian Village to the west of High Street, the principal road, and Italian Village to the east side.
The Joseph, the boutique hotel, will bring a different aesthetic to the Short North. Designed by the Miami-based architectural firm Arquitectonica, the 11-story modernist high-rise will feature 135 rooms, an in-house restaurant and spa services. The Joseph, a Le Meridien hotel, will also serve as a place to show pieces from the world-class modern art collection of the Columbus-based developer Ron Pizzuti, 72.
The Pizzuti Companies is developing the hotel as part of its million project on the two sides of High Street.
Across the street, the company plans the Offices at the Joseph, a 55,000-square-foot, six-story cubist-inspired office building, along with a 313-space five-story parking lot and an adjacent art gallery in a vacant century-old limestone building that will house more of the Pizzuti collection.
Named after Mr. Pizzuti's father, Joseph, an immigrant from Calabria, Italy, the entire project will be managed by his son, Joel Pizzuti, 40, and it is one of a half-dozen real estate developments in the works in the Short North, City officials last year approved a $500,000 engineering study to review future improvements, including buried utility lines, better pedestrian-level street lighting and sidewalk bump-outs for alfresco dining.
The seeds for the Short North's transformation were planted in the late 1970s, when pioneers like Sanborn Wood, a banker turned developer, started rehabbing homes and businesses, dodging the seedier side of life. Today, Mr. Wood, 74, has turned over the Wood Companies to his son, Mark, who is overseeing a four-story apartment building projecting over the strip's popular Northstar Caf.
The Short North's renaissance began in earnest in 1986 with the opening of the now renowned Rigsby's Kitchen in one of Mr. Wood's first acquisitions on High Street. The restaurant drew followers of the chef Kent Rigsby from throughout Central Ohio. Around the same time, art galleries started to appear. The Gallery Hop on the first Saturday of every month began 27 years ago and now attracts 10,000 to 20,000 people each month. The perennial and defiantly countercultural DooDah Parade on July 4 also was born in the late 1980s.
''The Short North,'' said Mr. Angelo of the Short North Alliance, ''gives Columbus swagger.''
Losing that quirky, artistic edge would be bad for business, so design is closely monitored by historic preservation commissions and the alliance. Even with a proposal for a premier art gallery, the Pizzutis spent four years getting approval for their contemporary project.
Following the cues of the more traditional red brick design is the Hubbard on High, a $27 million, mixed-use project jointly developed by two local development companies, Elford and Wagenbrenner. The Hubbard will have 72 apartments above 17,000 square feet of retail space, a 322-space parking garage and a designated outdoor event space with a bar and fountain.
WesBanco, a regional bank out of Wheeling, W.Va., is financing most of the project while the garage will be built with tax incremental funds, said Jeff Meacham, a partner with Elford Development.
Farther north on High Street, Elford has also teamed up with a building owner, Michael James, on the Fireproof Project, another mixed-use project with 58 apartments, 14,500 square feet of ground floor retail space and 87 parking spaces. The 100-year-old existing red brick building had been the Fireproof Company's headquarters for storing documents, Mr. Meacham said.
The only condominium development among the recent projects, the Jackson on High, offers a fitness center and a year-round rooftop pool for the owners of the 44 units, designed with cool, modern interiors, floor-to-ceiling glass windows and upscale kitchens.
Mr. Coleman said the creation of a special improvement district 12 years ago, a joint venture of the City Council and the neighborhood, bolstered development and has provided the city with a template for four other similar districts. Assessments for 80 commercial property owners and nearly 600 condo owners bring in $380,000 annually to the Short North.
These funds helped pay for the purchase and installation of 17 lighted arches across High Street, modern recreations of arches erected in 1888 to commemorate the centennial of the Northwest Territory as well as a gathering of Civil War veterans. The city has invested about $16 million in the Short North since 1982 when it was declared the first Neighborhood Commercial Revitalization District, more than half of that since the special improvement district's creation, said William Webster, the city's deputy director for jobs and economic development.
''The arches that are down there,'' said Mr. Meacham, ''really help unify that whole stretch of High Street.''
Developers point to a new Kroger grocery store that opened a year ago at the north end of High Street as a sign of the area's growth. The 60,000-square-foot marketplace-style store, which hosts wine tastings, was built right up to the sidewalk, replacing a 30-year-old model that had been set back behind a sea of parking.
''That was an amenity that was really missing,'' said Ricky Day, a neighborhood developer who appeared on the scene in the early 1990s and helped canvass the area to promote the special improvement district.
These days, he talks about the vibrant entrepreneurial creativity that seems to characterize the new businesses moving in. Next to Kroger's, he has a project with seven loft-style apartments with retail space downstairs.
''I've got people who are moving in with an on-premises brewing place, a boutique vodka distiller distributing on the Internet, a great little restaurant going in, and someone making mead and they're making it into a real business,'' said Mr. Day.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Joseph, a boutique hotel planned for Columbus, Ohio, is shown in an architect's rendering.
 A gallery housing some of the Pizzuti collection is planned for this space, a century-old limestone building in the Short North. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PIZZUTI/ARQUITECTONICA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); SUBURBS (77%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); MAYORS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); ART COLLECTING (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%); HISTORY (63%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%)

COMPANY: PIZZUTI COS (63%); MERIDIEN HOTEL (52%)

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (63%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (63%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (96%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



258 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: The Silver Lining in the Drought

BYLINE: By WILLIAM G. MOSELEY. 
William G. Moseley, a professor of geography at Macalester College, is the author of the forthcoming book ''An Introduction to Human-Environment Geography: Local Dynamics and Global Processes.''

 BODY:
St. PaulFROM where I sit on the north end of America's grain belt, I can almost hear the corn popping to the south of me. The drought threatens to drive up global corn prices beyond their level in 2007-8, when food demonstrations broke out around the world. But such crises often lead to change -- and transformation is what is needed to make our food system less vulnerable.
We have become dangerously focused on corn in the Midwest (and soybeans, with which it is cultivated in rotation). This limited diversity of crops restricts our diets, degrades our soils and increases our vulnerability to droughts. Farmers in the central plains used to grow a greater diversity of food and forage crops, including oats, hay, alfalfa and sorghum. But they gradually opted to grow more and more corn thanks to federal agricultural subsidies and expanding markets for corn in animal feed, corn syrup and ethanol. 
The virtue of corn is that it is one of the most productive crops on the planet, a characteristic that has been greatly amplified by years of research and development. Over time, this cheap and plentiful commodity found more uses and worked its way into more countries.
Cheap corn enabled the proliferation of high fructose corn syrup, an ingredient that is almost impossible to avoid in the American diet today. Farmers also produced less fodder for their own animals as they increasingly purchased relatively inexpensive corn-based feeds. When the cheap price of corn alone could not open up new opportunities, government policies and quotas encouraged the development of corn-based ethanol production and markets, to the point where 40 percent of the corn crop is now devoted to this use.
America's corn surpluses also drove global market prices so low that many countries found it cheaper to import grain rather than grow their own.
Corn's weakness is that it is highly susceptible to drought. As an open pollinator, corn has a critical seven-day window (which varies across the Corn Belt depending on planting time) when it really needs sufficient rainfall in order to successfully cross-fertilize with other corn plants. Given this summer's drought, the worst since the 1950s, it is not surprising that the corn crop has taken a beating. Most estimates suggest that only about a quarter of the crop is in good condition.
The problem is not so much the drought but our over-reliance on this single crop. As droughts are predicted to become more frequent with global climate change, we must rethink our increasingly vulnerable agri-food system. As such, the failing corn crop may not be such a bad thing if it prompts a push for change.
The No. 1 culprit behind our overreliance on corn is the federal farm subsidy program. While subsidies are not categorically bad, they become a problem if they leave farmers with little choice but to focus on a few crops. The proposed farm bill now before Congress would make some progress by ending direct payments to farmers for certain commodities (most notably corn) in favor of expanded crop insurance. Even with that critical change, a floor price (below which farmers receive payments from the government) and a more robust crop insurance program for certain commodities will still mean that farmers narrowly concentrate on corn and soybeans in the Midwest.
While this system clearly favors those interests that benefit from an oversupply of cheap corn (fertilizer and pesticide providers, feedlots and food and ethanol producers), it is not good for taxpayers, our food system or the environment.
The better approach would be to offer somewhat lower floor-price supports to a much broader range of crops and to incentivize mixed crop and livestock farms by offering direct payments linked to fodder production that is used on the farm. We also need a crop insurance program that is sensitive to climate change. Insurance should be for the occasional hazard, not one that is occurring with increasing regularity. For example, as Minnesota's climate becomes more like that of Kansas (as some climate change models predict), insurance schemes should encourage more drought-tolerant planting strategies.
The relentless promotion of corn-based ethanol through state quotas and federal subsidies must also be relaxed. The fact that the energy content of a gallon of corn-based ethanol is only slightly more than the energy required to produce it has always made the environmental argument for these programs dubious. Using switch grass or sugar cane to produce ethanol makes more environmental sense and would reduce the inevitable tension between energy and food needs for corn.
Internationally, we need a rebalancing of the food system from a few megaproducers and lots of importers to a more decentralized mix. Most countries face a problem of double exposure: volatility in global food markets and meteorological variability affecting domestic production. Good risk management means encouraging both domestic production and trade to manage exposure to inevitable variation.
Such changes needn't be bad for America's agricultural economy and our farmers. We might produce less corn, and perhaps not experience the same booms when production is strong and prices are high, but we would also not encounter the same devastating lows when drought strikes or prices collapse. A more diverse cropping landscape would mean viable farms, healthier diets and a steadier food system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL PRICES (91%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CORN FARMING (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); DROUGHT (89%); AGRICULTURE (78%); BIOFUELS (78%); LIVESTOCK FEED (78%); ANIMAL FOODS (77%); CLIMATOLOGY (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); ALCOHOLS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (75%); HAY FARMING (75%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (72%); ETHANOL (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



259 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Growth of Consumer Credit Slowed in June

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Consumer credit posted its weakest growth in eight months in June as Americans reduced their credit card debt, a potentially negative sign for an economy that has struggled to create jobs.Consumer credit grew by $6.46 billion in June, the Federal Reserve said on Tuesday. That was well below the $11 billion increase Wall Street economists had forecast in a Reuters survey. 
The Fed also said consumer credit climbed slightly less during May than originally estimated.
Consumer credit has been expanding since late 2010 as the United States rebounded from the 2007-9 recession, and on Monday, the Fed said a number of banks had eased loan standards on auto and credit card loans over the last three months.
In June, however, the overall expansion of consumer credit was the smallest since October 2011.
The data follows a report on Friday that showed employers hired the most workers in five months in July, but that a trend of weak hiring has been unable to reduce the unemployment rate, which rose to 8.3 percent last month.
In June, revolving credit, which includes credit cards, shrank by $3.7 billion.
Consumer credit data can be tricky to interpret because cutting back on debt is not always a sign of pessimism. People may use their credit cards less because they are earning more money.
Nonrevolving credit increased by $10.15 billion in June from a month earlier. Part of that increase appeared to be driven by student loans made by the government, which grew 29.9 percent from June 2011, slightly less than the 12-month growth posted in May.
Student debt has soared since the recession, driving worries that these borrowers might get over their heads and could some day struggle to pay their debts. Still, year-over-year growth in student borrowing has been cooling and is no longer nearly as fast as in 2009.
Consumer credit flows -- a relatively new data series that the Fed says is more responsive to economic trends -- also cooled in June. The flow of consumer credit fell to an annual rate of $77.5 billion in June. In May, that rate was $200.4 billion, the Fed said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER CREDIT (92%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); TRENDS (89%); RECESSION (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (74%); STATISTICS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



260 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Average Is Over, Part II

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
A big mismatch exists today between how U.S. C.E.O.'s look at the world and how many American politicians and parents look at the world -- and it may be preventing us from taking our education challenge as seriously as we must.For many politicians, ''outsourcing'' is a four-letter word because it involves jobs leaving ''here'' and going ''there.'' But for many C.E.O.'s, outsourcing is over. In today's seamlessly connected world, there is no ''out'' and no ''in'' anymore. There is only the ''good,'' ''better'' and ''best'' places to get work done, and if they don't tap into the best, most cost-efficient venue wherever that is, their competition will. 
For politicians, it's all about ''made in America,'' but, for C.E.O.'s, it is increasingly about ''made in the world'' -- a world where more and more products are now imagined everywhere, designed everywhere, manufactured everywhere in global supply chains and sold everywhere. American politicians are still citizens of our states and cities, while C.E.O.'s are increasingly citizens of the world, with mixed loyalties. For politicians, all their customers are here; for C.E.O.'s, 90 percent of their new customers are abroad. The credo of the politician today is: ''Why are you not hiring more people here?'' The credo of the C.E.O. today is: ''You only hire someone -- anywhere -- if you absolutely have to,'' if a smarter machine, robot or computer program is not available.
Yes, this is a simplification, but the trend is accurate. The trend is that for more and more jobs, average is over. Thanks to the merger of, and advances in, globalization and the information technology revolution, every boss now has cheaper, easier access to more above-average software, automation, robotics, cheap labor and cheap genius than ever before. So just doing a job in an average way will not return an average lifestyle any longer. Yes, I know, that's what they said about the Japanese ''threat'' in the 1980s. But Japan, alas, challenged just two American industries -- cars and consumer electronics -- and just one American town, Detroit. Globalization and the Internet/telecom/computing revolution together challenge every town, worker and job. There is no good job today that does not require more and better education to get it, hold it or advance in it.
Which is why it is disturbing when more studies show that American K-12 schools continue to lag behind other major industrialized countries on the international education tests. Like politicians, too many parents think if their kid's school is doing better than the one next door, they're fine.
Well, a dose of reality is on the way thanks to Andreas Schleicher and his team at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which coordinates the Program for International Student Assessment, known as the PISA test. Every three years, the O.E.C.D. has been giving the PISA test to a sample of 15-year-olds, now in 70 countries, to evaluate reading, math and science skills. The U.S. does not stand out. It's just average, but many parents are sure their kid is above average. With help from several foundations in the U.S., Schleicher has just finished a pilot study of 100 American schools to enable principals, teachers and parents to see not just how America stacks up against China, but how their own school stacks up against similar schools in the best-educated countries, like Finland and Singapore.
''The entry ticket to the middle class today is a postsecondary education of some kind,'' but too many kids are not coming out of K-12 prepared for that, and too many parents don't get it, says Jon Schnur, the chairman of America Achieves, which is partnering with the O.E.C.D. on this project as part of an effort to help every American understand the connection between educational attainment at their school -- for all age groups -- and what will be required to perform the jobs of the future.
''Imagine, in a few years, you could sign onto a Web site and see this is how my school compares with a similar school anywhere in the world,'' says Schleicher. ''And then you take this information to your local superintendent and ask: 'Why are we not doing as well as schools in China or Finland?' ''
Schleicher's team is assessing all their test results -- and socioeconomic profiles of each school -- to make sure they have a proper data set for making global comparisons. They hope to have the comparison platform available early next year.
Says Schleicher: ''If parents do not know, they will not demand, as consumers, a high quality of educational service. They will just say the school my kids are going to is as good as the school I went to.'' If this comparison platform can be built at this micro scale, he says, it could ''lead to empowerment at the really decisive level'' of parents, principals and teachers demanding something better.
''This is not about threatening schools,'' he adds. It is about giving each of them ''the levers to effect change'' and a window into the pace of change that is possible when every stakeholder in a school has the data and can say: Look at those who have made dramatic improvements around the world. Why can't we?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); OUTSOURCING (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (71%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (67%); ROBOTICS (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (66%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (74%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



261 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: P.G.A. CHAMPIONSHIP; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Getting Ready for the Home Crowd in South Carolina

BYLINE: By ADAM SCHUPAK

 BODY:
The golf course architect Bobby Weed has built courses around the world, but none is as near and dear to his heart as the driving range he built in his hometown of Irmo, South Carolina.It was 1971 and Weed, a high school student, talked his father into letting him convert some bean fields the family owned into Weed Hill Driving Range, where a bucket of balls cost 75 cents and Grandma called the shots until he got home from school.
''I remember getting off the bus and running up the hill and I'd go in there and ask, 'Grandma, how's everything going?' 'Oh, Bobby,' she'd say, 'these people have been out there tearing up your grass,''' Weed recalled.
''She would hand wash every ball,'' he added. ''She'd treat them like they were eggs in a basket.'' 
As Weed can attest, South Carolina loves its golf, and with 351 courses dotting the Palmetto State, the sport has made it a popular tourist destination.
It is not unusual for South Carolina to hold tournaments. The Heritage on Hilton Head Island has been a fixture on the P.G.A. Tour calendar since 1969. The Ocean Course at Kiawah Island Golf Resort, which is 20 miles, or 32 kilometers, southwest of Charleston, has held its share of premier events, including the Ryder Cup, World Cup, and Senior P.G.A. Championship. But South Carolina had never held a golf major championship.
That will change this weekend when the Ocean Course stages the 94th P.G.A. Championship.
''It's the biggest sporting event in the history of South Carolina,'' said Weed, who plans to be in attendance.
With apologies to Richard Petty and Dale Earnhardt, the P.G.A. is bigger than any of the Nascar races run at Darlington Raceway. How big? The P.G.A. Championship is estimated to generate a total overall economic impact of $193 million for the state of South Carolina, according to a study conducted by the College of Charleston Business School. Officials expect 210,000 spectators to attend the final major of the year, many of whom will be rooting for one of the South Carolina native sons in the field to carry home the Wanamaker Trophy.
Look no further than Dustin Johnson, once a regular known to dig up some of the sod at Weed Hill. The six-time tour winner began hanging out as a young boy at Mid Carolina Club, where his father was the head professional. In the seventh grade, Johnson made the Irmo High School varsity golf team and earned all-state honors. He matriculated to Coastal Carolina University, near Myrtle Beach, where he was a three-time Big South Conference Player of the Year.
After enduring a number of close calls at majors, Johnson would like nothing more than to record his first major title in his home state.
He held a three-stroke lead at the 2010 U.S. Open at Pebble Beach after 54 holes before shooting a final-round 82. Later that summer, Johnson rebounded with a strong showing at the P.G.A. Championship. He appeared to be headed for a three-man playoff with Martin Kaymer and Bubba Watson until he incurred a two-stroke penalty on the final hole for grounding his club in a poorly defined bunker at Whistling Straits. Thanks to Johnson's mishap, millions now know that grounding does not refer only to electricity and teenagers.
The good news is he will not have to worry about a similar occurrence. The P.G.A. of America announced a local rule on July 25 that during the P.G.A. Championship sandy areas would not be designated as bunkers.
''I think it's good,'' Johnson said. ''Especially at the place we're at, where there's so much sand everywhere.''
Johnson has not let these setbacks slow him down. He also notched a runner-up finish at the 2011 British Open Championship.
But following off-season knee surgery, Johnson, 28, has not factored in the majors this year. He withdrew from the Masters because of a lower back injury and did not swing a club for six weeks. A victory at the FedEx St. Jude Classic in June suggested he had made a full recovery. But then he missed the cut at the U.S. Open and finished tied for ninth at the British Open.
With no shortage of talented twenty-something golfers, Johnson may be the best of the bunch, and the Ocean Course, which measures over 7,600 yards, is suited for his powerful game.
Johnson will not be the only homegrown talent receiving plenty of vocal support. Bill Haas grew up in Greenville and still makes his home in South Carolina. The family history there dates from the 1977 Heritage Classic, where his parents met.
''I used to go to the tournament for family vacation,'' Haas said. ''I'll never miss that one.''
Nor will he miss the opportunity to play in front of family and friends at the P.G.A. Having never played the Ocean Course, Haas will have a little local knowledge from watching his father, Jay, compete there at the 2007 Senior P.G.A. Championship.
''I remember thinking it was hard,'' Haas said. ''There isn't much room for error.''
Haas showed his mettle last year when he won the Tour Championship and the season-long FedEx Cup, and earned a captain's pick to the U.S. Presidents Cup team. Then he got off to a hot start this season, notching his fourth tour victory in February at the Northern Trust Open in a playoff. To those who know him best, this came as no surprise. Haas, 30, is physically gifted, a classic ball striker with an ever-improving short game.
''I consider Bill to be just a notch below Fred Couples in terms of natural ability,'' said Bill Harmon, who caddied for Jay for years and helps Bill (who is named for him) with his swing.
Harmon recognized his ability the first time he saw Haas hit at a driving range at a very young age. By 17, he was beating his dad, a nine-time title winner on the tour.
''I held him off for as long as I could,'' Jay Haas said.
Haas has not forgotten that first victory over his father in golf. It was New Year's Day in 1999 at The Cliffs at Keowee Vineyards Golf Club in Sunset, South Carolina. On the 17th tee, Jay informed Bill that he was beating the old man.
''I think he tried to put some pressure on me,'' Haas said.
Haas's game has cooled off during the past few months (he has not finished better than tied for 19 in his past 12 starts), but his confidence remains unfazed. He is hoping to improve on his ordinary credentials in the majors -- his best result is a tie for 12th at the 2011 P.G.A. -- and to become the first son of a modern tour pro to capture a major.
''It's going to be extra special to play a major at home,'' Haas said. ''I just hope I can be in contention on Sunday.''
So do another quartet of South Carolina sons in the field: Jonathan Byrd; Tommy Gainey; Lucas Glover, the 2009 U.S. Open champion; and the P.G.A. club pro Kelly Mitchum, who will have the distinction of hitting the championship's opening tee shot on Thursday. William McGirt, the last man into the field, is a North Carolina native but a South Carolinian by adoption.
No matter whether the local favorites win or lose, the state of South Carolina can be proud of their major achievement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); AUTO RACING (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); RESORTS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); TOURNAMENTS (71%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (66%); NASCAR RACING (62%); TOURISM (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (79%); MYRTLE BEACH, SC, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



262 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: Buoyed by Hope for Euro, Shares Climb for 3rd Day

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The stock market rose for a third consecutive day on Tuesday, pushing the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index above 1,400 and the Nasdaq composite index above 3,000, their highest closes since early May.Analysts said investors remained hopeful that the European Central Bank would act soon to ease the euro zone's debt crisis. 
''If the E.C.B. expands its balance sheet, it will keep pushing these bond yields lower, which can help these countries finance their debt, giving markets a bit of reprieve,'' said Joseph Tanious, global market strategist at J. P. Morgan Funds. ''It's likely we won't get anything official for a few weeks, and until then investors are likely to be skittish.''
On the economic front, consumer credit posted its weakest growth in eight months in June as Americans reduced their credit card debt, a potentially negative sign for an economy that has struggled to create jobs. Consumer credit grew by $6.46 billion in June, the Federal Reserve said on Tuesday. That was well below the $11 billion increase Wall Street economists had forecast in a Reuters survey. But revolving credit, which includes credit cards, shrank by $3.7 billion.
The report appeared to have little impact on stocks. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 51.09 points, or 0.39 percent, to close at 13,168.60.
The S.&P. 500 picked up 7.12 points, or 0.51 percent, closing at 1,401.35. The Nasdaq gained 25.95 points, or 0.87 percent, closing at 3,015.86.
Despite worries about the economies of Europe and the United States, investors have pushed the S.& P. 500 up more than 11 percent so far this year.
Tuesday's advance was led by stocks in cyclical sectors like energy, materials and consumer discretionary, while defensive sectors like telecoms and utilities edged lower.
Energy stocks rose 1.3 percent, helped by Chesapeake Energy, which jumped after it said it would sell some assets and spend less on new properties.
The stock surged 9.4 percent to $19.37 and was one of the top percentage gainers in the S.& P. 500.
Banking shares rose 0.5 percent, lifted by Morgan Stanley, which was up 2.6 percent at $14.50.
''Despite what seems like a weekly scandal of some sort, the banks have posted incredibly large profits. The Fed has made it very easy for them to take on very little risk and make very large profits,'' said Randy Frederick, managing director of trading and derivatives for Charles Schwab.
Fossil, the watch and fashion accessory maker, soared 32 percent to $91.77 after it forecast growth exceeding Wall Street's expectations in Asia and Europe.
With 82 percent of S.& P. companies having reported quarterly results, 68 percent have beaten profit expectations, according to Thomson Reuters data.
Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson scrapped further studies of an experimental drug for Alzheimer's disease after the drug failed in a second trial. Pfizer fell 2.1 percent to $23.74 and J.& J. edged 0.8 percent lower to $68.29.
In the bond market, the price of the Treasury's 10-year note fell 19/32, to 101 3/32, while its yield rose to 1.63 percent from 1.57 percent late Monday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); EURO CRISIS (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); JOB CREATION (68%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (72%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (58%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



263 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Fraud Cases Often Spare Individuals

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Pharmaceutical companies, military contractors, banks and other corporations are on track to pay as much as $8 billion this year to resolve charges of defrauding the government, analysts say -- a record sum and more than twice the amount assessed last year by the Justice Department.The surge in penalties is because of a number of factors, including the resolution of longstanding actions against drug makers and military contractors, as well as lawsuits brought against mortgage lenders after the financial crisis. But it also reflects a renewed emphasis on corporate fraud, as the Justice Department devotes more resources to the issue and demands higher penalties from companies.
''We are putting more resources into these cases and better using the resources we have,'' said Tony West, the acting associate attorney general.
The ballooning settlements are for civil charges of fraud against the government, criminal charges often related to the same conduct and, in the case of health care companies, recovery of money for states for Medicaid fraud. 
But while the collections are a boon to the government and taxpayers, they are resurrecting questions about the relative lack of charges against executives at the companies that are getting the stiffest penalties.
''A lot of people on the street, they're wondering how a company can commit serious violations of securities laws and yet no individuals seem to be involved and no individual responsibility was assessed,'' Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island and chairman of a subcommittee that oversees securities regulation, said at a recent hearing.
President Obama, lawmakers and government watchdog groups have called for holding more individuals responsible. The Justice Department has collected $8.6 billion over the last three years, more than in any similar period in history, but relatively few prosecutions of individuals have come from the biggest settlements.
The most recent cases involve wrongdoing at some of the largest and most prominent companies. Last month, for example, GlaxoSmithKline said it would pay $3 billion to settle criminal and civil accusations of drug marketing and pricing fraud. In April, the military contractor ATK Launch Systems agreed to a $37 million settlement for selling ''dangerous and defective'' flares to the military.
In November, Merck settled charges of drug marketing and safety fraud for $950 million. A month earlier, Oracle agreed to pay $199.5 million after being accused of overbilling the government for software.
The difficulties of prosecuting executives were highlighted last week in New York, where a federal jury acquitted a Citigroup manager who had been involved in selling an exotic financial security involving residential mortgages. The manager, Brian H. Stoker, was charged with falsely describing Citigroup's role in selecting the assets in the portfolio and failing to disclose that Citigroup was betting against the investment.
The jury cleared Mr. Stoker in part because the bank had given investors fine-print materials that apparently warned them of the investment's risks. In a rare move, though, the jury sent a note to the Securities and Exchange Commission after reaching its decision, urging the agency not to give up. ''This verdict should not deter the S.E.C. from investigating the financial industry, to review current regulations and modify existing regulations as necessary,'' the jury wrote.
Lawyers say the government is more likely to go after companies because of their deep pockets. Civil cases against businesses can often produce substantial financial awards without the risk inherent in a trial. Civil charges also have a lower burden of proof than criminal charges and can reap triple damages. By one estimate, the government recoups $15 for every $1 spent on a civil case against a company.
But a top government enforcement official gave another reason, saying it was often too difficult and expensive to find evidence that clearly linked individual actions to corporate wrongdoing. Senior executives in particular are often insulated from day-to-day decisions, the official said, and have learned to steer clear of e-mails or other evidence that might prove that they knew the company was breaking the law. The official spoke on the condition of anonymity because more companies and executives were expected to be taken to court.
The Justice Department said its prosecutors assessed how strong the evidence was and the likelihood of a successful trial in deciding whether to charge individuals. Even if a company has settled a case, it said, an investigation of individual conduct can continue and might eventually result in charges.
''To the extent you do not see many individuals being held accountable, that's not because of a lack of will on the part of the Department of Justice,'' said Mr. West, the acting associate attorney general. ''There is a lot of behavior that makes us angry but which is not necessarily illegal. If the evidence is there, we won't hesitate to bring those cases.''
Dozens of individuals have been charged in financial cases. The S.E.C. says it has charged 55 chief executives and other senior officers with violating securities law in relation to the financial crisis. The commission has collected $2.2 billion in penalties, disgorgement and other monetary relief from cases related to the crisis.
In particular, cases of fraud against the government, brought under the False Claims Act, have been rising in recent years. The trend began after a realignment of enforcement resources three years ago, Mr. West said, and the increase in settlements has resulted in even more whistle-blower accusations being reported to the department.
Critics remain, however, arguing that the practice of settling fraud cases with companies while not charging any employees might be giving executives an incentive to push the limits of the law. ''If you are an executive, you know that the chances of getting caught are infinitely small, and the chances of getting caught and prosecuted are even smaller,'' said Dennis M. Kelleher, president of Better Markets, which advocates financial regulatory reform.
It is difficult to determine the exact dollar amount of settlements, in part because measurement methods differ. The Justice Department said that in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, 2011, it settled $3 billion in civil whistle-blower cases.
The department has already surpassed that number for the current fiscal year, but it said it did not keep running tallies of its penalties. These figures do not include a $25 billion settlement with banks over fraudulent foreclosure practices that was announced in February.
Patrick Burns, a spokesman for Taxpayers Against Fraud, an advocacy group for whistle-blowers, said that civil fraud cases, related criminal settlements and recoveries for states exceeded $4 billion last year, and that he believed the number would more than double this year.
In a recent report to clients, the law firm Gibson Dunn & Crutcher calculated that civil cases under the False Claims Act alone brought in more than $4.1 billion in the first six months of 2012, with criminal settlements and payments to states adding $2.7 billion.
''The government seems very proud of the amount of money they are bringing in,'' said D. Grayson Yeargin, a partner at Nixon Peabody in Washington who often represents companies in False Claims Act cases. ''And they may be ramping it up even more.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Jack Reed said individuals should be investigated.
Tony West of the Justice Department defended its tactics. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES)
 Dennis Kelleher, a regulatory reform advocate, said the rarity of criminal charges may encourage executives to push legal limits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); LITIGATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); SECURITIES LAW (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); MEDICAID (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); DRUG POLICY (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); MEDICARE FRAUD (72%); VERDICTS (71%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (71%); ACQUITTAL (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%); HEALTH CARE (53%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (85%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%); GSK (NYSE) (58%); GSK (LSE) (58%); BIOC (EGX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%)

PERSON: JACK REED (57%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



264 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: In Oregon, Truffles Are No Match for Wet Noses

BYLINE: By NICK CZAP

 BODY:
REDLAND, Ore.THE forest air was cool and the light translucently green, sifted through the Douglas-fir canopy above and refracted by plumes of sword ferns that sprang from the forest floor. There was a muffled galumphing, a blur of golden fur, and then another, as Sasha and Ashleigh, two golden retrievers, bounded by off-leash in a kind of dog nirvana, followed closely by their owners, Kim Hickey and Erik Campen.
Recent graduates of NW Truffle Dogs, a school in Oregon City, Ore., the four were fast becoming adroit hunters of Oregon truffles, native fungi that are among the Pacific Northwest's most prized delicacies. The dogs and their owners are also pioneers of a sort, foragers at the forefront of a movement that seeks to improve the reputation of Oregon truffles, and their value in the market, by changing the way they are harvested. 
As Sasha and Ashleigh raced along, noses to the ground, in these woods, about 20 miles south of Portland, Ms. Hickey watched intently. But something in the dogs' postures told her they were following the scent of an animal, the footfalls of a squirrel or a chipmunk.
''They're crittering,'' Ms. Hickey said.
Oregon is home to four known culinary truffles: Leucangium carthusianum, the Oregon black truffle; Tuber oregonense, the Oregon winter white; Tuber gibbosum, the Oregon spring white; and Kalapuya brunnea, the relatively rare Oregon brown truffle.
Harvesting the fungi, which grow beneath the forest's mulch layer or several inches of soil, is labor intensive, a fact reflected in a retail price of about $400 a pound. Still, that is considerably less than the going rate for truffles from places like Alba, Italy, and Prigord, France, which this year commanded $4,000 and $1,600 a pound, respectively.
While European truffles have been harvested on a significant scale since the 19th century, Oregon's truffle harvest is a relatively recent phenomenon. The industry had only just begun to germinate in 1977 when James Beard gave it a boost, declaring at a mushroom symposium that Oregon white truffles were as good as their Italian counterparts.
But the harvests in Europe and Oregon differ in another, significant respect. European foragers use dogs or pigs trained to sniff out ripe truffles, ensuring a crop of uniformly high quality; Italian law mandates the use of dogs.
Most commercial foragers in Oregon harvest the fungi by raking, a method that gathers both mature and immature truffles. The problem is amplified when foragers try to beat competitors by raking for truffles progressively earlier in the growing season.
Charles Lefevre -- whose company, New World Truffieres, in Eugene, Ore., specializes in truffle cultivation -- said he thought that the resulting crop neither consistently conveyed the full culinary potential of Oregon truffles, nor commanded the prices that it could.
To help fix that, in 2006 Mr. Lefevre, who holds a Ph.D. in forest mycology, and his wife, Leslie Scott, founded the Oregon Truffle Festival, an annual event that seeks to improve the reputation of Oregon truffles by promoting the use of truffle dogs.
In 2009, Mr. Lefevre was among the authors of a white paper saying that industry oversight to ensure the use of dogs, combined with cultivation efforts and careful management of the truffle habitat, could raise the value of Oregon's crop (worth $300,000 to harvesters at the time) a hundredfold by 2030, and benefit the region's economy through increased sales, exports and culinary tourism.
Elizabeth Kalik, a former trainer of search-and-rescue dogs in Oregon City, read an article in the dog enthusiast magazine Bark in which Mr. Lefevre described the need for truffle dogs. Intrigued by the prospect of a new outlet for her canine expertise, she tracked him down and promptly trained her dogs, a Newfoundland and two Beaucerons, to home in on the scent of truffles.
She and a former search-and-rescue colleague, Kelly Slocum, founded NW Truffle Dogs in 2010. To date, the school has trained 46 dogs -- including a papillon and a pit bull -- as well as their owners, who must learn to detect the changes in a dog's behavior and posture as it closes in on its quarry. Truffles are a food, after all, and some dogs will eagerly gobble them up if not watched carefully.
Oregon black truffles exude an aroma reminiscent of pineapple and dark chocolate, while the white and brown varieties evoke a mlange of spices, sulfur and ripe cheese. For dogs, whose noses are extraordinarily sensitive, tracking these aromas to their source is relatively straightforward.
''Scent training is one of the easiest things you can do with a dog, because of the natural proclivity,'' Ms. Kalik said. But before any instruction, she and Ms. Slocum evaluate each dog's suitability for truffling, which requires a good degree of fitness, an ability to think independently and focus on a task for hours, and a tolerance for occasionally cold, damp conditions.
''You can train any breed,'' said Ms. Kalik, but breeds like Labrador and golden retrievers, which make good pets and good working dogs, are ''a happy medium.''
To date, all of the school's graduates, including Ms. Hickey and Mr. Campen, have been amateur foragers. Ms. Kalik and Ms. Slocum encourage their students to spread the word by joining their local mycological society and taking their dogs on group foraging trips, where they can show their abilities.
While Ms. Hickey and Mr. Campen have yet to join such a club, they are happily finding uses for the fruits, or fungi, of their labor. Ms. Hickey's current favorite is truffled potato gratin.
During the foray through the woods, after zigzagging through the sword ferns for nearly an hour, Sasha came to an abrupt halt, sniffed the air, and began to backtrack, her zigs and zags becoming smaller and more precise. Moments later, the dog put her snout to the ground, her tail wagging in a slow, peculiar way that whispered ''truffle.''
Mr. Campen scampered over, knelt beside her and began scratching at the soil with a soup spoon. With a whoop, he held aloft an Oregon black truffle the size of a table tennis ball -- the first of several. It was earthy, fruity and, owing to the nose that found it, unquestionably, aromatically and exquisitely ripe.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TRAINED SNIFFER: Sasha, foreground, found an Oregon black truffle for her owners, Erik Campen and Kim Hickey. Below, truffles at a market in Portland. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICK CZAP FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (91%); MUSHROOM PRODUCTION (89%); MAMMALS (89%); MUSHROOMS (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUGENE, OR, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (73%) OREGON, USA (96%); WEST USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); ITALY (91%); FRANCE (77%); EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



265 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Egypt's Sinai Problem

 BODY:
President Mohamed Morsi of Egypt took office less than two months ago and has been struggling to steer his country, its economy and its politics on a post-Hosni Mubarak course. Now another steep new challenge is on the Islamist leader's list, after a border attack in the Sinai Peninsula killed 16 Egyptian soldiers and turned longstanding security concerns into a full-blown crisis.The attack will test Mr. Morsi's ability to establish control over the lawless Sinai, and it is also a test of his approach toward Israel. Whatever divides the two countries -- and there is plenty -- they are tightly bound at the Sinai border. There will never be true stability if Egypt cannot find ways to work with Israel on security issues and to continue honoring their 1979 peace treaty. 
The Sinai was largely demilitarized after the treaty. Mr. Mubarak cooperated with Israel on security but neglected the desert region, and many residents feel disenfranchised. Since Mr. Mubarak was toppled in 2011, the Sinai has experienced a growing lawlessness as Bedouin criminals, Palestinian militants from neighboring Gaza and other extremists operated at will. Weapons are plentiful and state institutions few.
According to witnesses and officials, masked gunmen stormed a border post on Sunday night and killed the soldiers as they prepared to break their Ramadan fast. The gunmen then barreled into Israel in a stolen truck and armored vehicle; one vehicle exploded at the border and the other was struck by Israel's Air Force.
The attackers have not been definitively identified. Mr. Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood Party, which has often voiced hostility toward Israel but was not speaking for the president, used its Web site to suggest that Israeli intelligence could be to blame. Israel's ambassador to the United States used Twitter to finger Iran but his government, and many others, see the work of Al Qaeda-inspired militants with ties to Palestinians in Gaza. Egypt's military, which still holds many levers of power, called the attackers ''infidels.'' Mr. Morsi also ignored the anti-Israel line. He said, ''There's no room to appease this treachery, this aggression and this criminality,'' and he promised that security forces would extend ''full control'' over the Sinai.
There are some early positive signs. According to The Times, an Israeli general and an Egyptian general met near the border to discuss an investigation into the incident. Israel handed over to Egypt the armored car and the bodies of those killed. Egypt closed the border crossing with Gaza and began sealing off smuggling tunnels.
To substantially beef up military assets in the region, the government may have to modify its treaty with Israel. Meanwhile, Mr. Morsi has been confronted with the anger of Egyptians who consider him and the Brotherhood sympathetic to the soldiers' killers, in part because he has made overtures to Gaza's Hamas leaders. Protesters forced Mr. Morsi to drop plans to attend funerals for the soldiers on Tuesday.
It is too soon to say whether the Egyptian government and the military, still focused on a difficult democratic transition, will make the volatile Sinai a priority. It is in the national interest, something they are still struggling to understand.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); AL-QAEDA (77%); TERRORISM (77%); SMUGGLING (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); AIR FORCES (71%); RAMADAN (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); DESERTS (53%)

PERSON: MOHAMMED MORSI (90%); HOSNI MUBARAK (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (99%); ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



266 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: In $440 Million Trading Error, Upside of Wall St. Failures

BYLINE: By STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF. 
Steven M. Davidoff is a professor of law and finance at Ohio State University. His columns can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook. Follow @StevenDavidoff on Twitter.

 BODY:
The near implosion of the Knight Capital Group on an accidental $440 million trading loss may make many feel that Wall Street firms are on automatic self-destruct with the timer set to go off fairly soon.The truth may instead be that the finance industry not only has fewer missteps than the rest of corporate America, but that sometimes failure is a good thing.
The wunderkinds at Knight Capital certainly did seem to blow up the joint. The market maker's trading program ran amok over the course of 45 minutes last Wednesday morning, leading to $440 million in losses. At best, this was an unintentional programming malfunction, but whatever the cause, it was a stupendous error that necessitated a rescue of the firm on Monday by a group of investors. 
And the Knight Capital debacle follows a long list of Wall Street failures. In the last few years, Lehman Brothers, Bear Stearns and MF Global have destroyed themselves. Before that, Drexel Burnham Lambert filed for bankruptcy in 1990, Barings in 1995, Long-Term Capital Management in 1998, Refco in 2005 and Amaranth Advisors in 2006. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, the savings and loan scandal resulted in a spate of bank liquidations. In the 1970s, there was the implosion of the Wall Street financial institution Goodbody & Company, and in the decade before, the failure of Ira Haupt & Company.
While you may look at horror when you see this record, Wall Street is actually better than average in the failure department these days.
Look at corporate landmarks like Eastman Kodak and American Airlines, which are now in bankruptcy. Last year, 86 publicly traded companies went bankrupt, according to bankruptcydata.com, with an average filing size of $1.2 billion. Only 4.7 percent of these companies were in finance or banking. Since 2000, 1,768 public companies have filed for bankruptcy, but only about 6 percent have been financial and banking companies.
Putting this in perspective, about 15 percent of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is made up of financial companies. Financial and banking companies appear to have a lower rate of failure than the rest of corporate America.
Even so, this doesn't mean that failure is bad. Failure is a necessary component of the creative destruction that the Austrian economist Joseph Schumpeter wrote about.
Schumpeter's theories have been extrapolated by free-market advocates into an explanation of how dynamic, capitalistic economies renew themselves through failure.
Normally, Americans take this failure as the price to pay for a successful capitalist system. The nation does not seem terribly upset about the fall of Kodak, or before it, Polaroid. These companies failed to adapt and change, and if you buy into creative destruction, they were eclipsed by swifter, faster companies like Shutterfly and Instagram.
Obviously, these events are terrible for the employees and communities involved, but you don't see this bring new cries for regulation to prevent Kodak from going under.
The question is whether creative destruction is different on Wall Street, and if so, can we even stop it.
Creative destruction certainly hasn't gone away. In recent years, we've seen the creation of boutique investment banks like Moelis & Company and Evercore. Hedge funds have gradually captured significant trading volume from the investment banks. Knight Capital itself was a symbol of the rise of the market makers, which compete with the exchanges for trading business.
These newer entrants counteract what has been the huge consolidation in the investment banking industry over the last 40 years. Investment banks swallowed each other only to be subsequently acquired by big commercial bank holding companies. Lehman Brothers, for example, was an agglomeration of a number of storied banks like Kuhn Loeb, E. F. Hutton and Shearson/American Express. Lehman's remnants are now part of Barclays and Nomura.
In other words, Wall Street is continuously evolving. In such a place, failure, as it does everywhere in corporate America, must occur. This is the way weak players are discarded so stronger players can survive and provide better and more stable services.
In this system, the dumb must also go. In the case of Knight Capital, regulators appeared to agree, declining to make any exceptions for the firm.
The difference is that finance is about risk, and when financial companies collapse, it can happen quickly, with extensive harm to others. When a bookstore chain goes bankrupt, people are inconvenienced and there are losses, but the losses are mostly containable.
In finance, however, the collapse of a single firm can jeopardize the system, and as with Knight Capital's teetering on the brink last week, it can happen very quickly. We're all understandably on edge about that because of the financial crisis.
The chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Mary L. Schapiro, said before the rescue that Knight's trading debacle was "unacceptable." There is also public hand-wringing by commentators that we need to go after computerized trading.
It may well be that we need more regulation of computer trading, but we also have to realize that failure will happen with financial firms, and that this is part of the weeding out. It's not just acceptable, but desirable.
Firms that can't manage their risk should be replaced by firms that can. If we instead regulate these firms so they take no risk, finance will dry up. The existence of a financial system is a trade-off for the benefits that finance can provide. And yes, there are benefits, like credit and financing for a $15 trillion economy.
The trick is to strike the right balance. That is actually what the much-criticized Dodd-Frank Act does - allowing firms to take risk but tempering that risk-taking with regulatory oversight. Dodd-Frank also creates a new insolvency system for banks that pose systemic risk to manage the inevitable failure.
But Dodd-Frank's insolvency net would not have activated for Knight because it wasn't systemically important. Instead, the normal system worked to minimize the impact of Knight's losses and absorb it. In other words, the near failure of Knight was a success for Wall Street, showing that it can manage the inevitable collapse.
All told, it may be that new rules are needed in light of Knight, but it should also be recognized that we can't just regulate failure away without eliminating risk, too. And we can't have a financial system without both.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); SAVINGS & LOANS (66%)

COMPANY: KNIGHT CAPITAL GROUP INC (74%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (54%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%); SHUTTERFLY INC (50%)

TICKER: KCG (PAR) (74%); KCG (NYSE) (74%); SFLY (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (74%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (74%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS812921 PHOTOFINISHING LABORATORIES (EXCEPT ONE-HOUR) (50%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); SIC7384 PHOTOFINISHING LABORATORIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



267 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA DECODER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Buoyed by 'Avengers,' Disney Profit Surges 24 Percent

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES - The success of the film "Marvel's The Avengers" and the "Cars"-related expansion of a theme park powered the Walt Disney Companyto a 24 percent increase in quarterly profit, well ahead of expectations, the company reported Tuesday.Disney, with operations ranging from movies to hotels to baby clothes, is closely watched as a barometer of consumer confidence. Lately, however, that correlation has seemed out of alignment. Why is Disney surging when the frail economy has people keeping a lid on discretionary spending?
The answer may be that consumers simply see Disney's recent offerings (with a few notable exceptions) as attractive ways to spend their money. 
Many people grumble that Disney's parks are expensive, but they also seem to see the value. Attendance was strong in the quarter at both Walt Disney Worldin Orlando, Fla., and at Disney's California Adventure park in Anaheim, Calif., where a lavish "Cars"-themed parcel recently opened as part of a $1.1 billion overhaul. Disney said per capita guest spending at its domestic resorts increased 8 percent. Add in strong bookings for a new cruise ship and a return to normal at Tokyo Disney Resort after last year's earthquake, and operating income at Disney's parks unit rose 21 percent, to $630 million.
Similarly, "The Avengers" has taken in over $1.5 billion at the global box office, in part because that superhero film prompted consumers to pay more - $3 to $5 more per ticket - to see it in 3-D. For the quarter ended June 30, Walt Disney Studios reported operating income of $313 million, an increase from $49 million a year earlier. Disney announced on Tuesday that Joss Whedon, who directed "The Avengers," would return for a sequel and help develop a Marvel-related property for the company's ABC broadcast network.
Fans were also shopping briskly during the quarter at Disney's mall-based retail stores, where "Avengers"-themed merchandise and new locations helped the company's consumer products division report a 35 percent increase in operating income, to $209 million.
Disney's long-suffering Internet division even looked healthier, improving to a loss of $42 million, compared with a loss of $86 million in the same period a year ago, mainly because of increased traction in social games. (Disney told analysts that the coming quarter might be more difficult, however, because of the release of fewer console games.)
Robert A. Iger, Disney's chief executive, called the results "phenomenal" in a statement, adding that the totals were "the largest quarterly earnings in the history of our company." Disney had net income of $1.83 billion, or $1.01 a share, compared with $1.48 billion, or 77 cents a share, in the year-ago quarter. Analysts had been expecting income of 93 cents a share.
Revenue for the quarter, the third in the company's fiscal year, climbed 4 percent, to $11.09 billion, held down because of a timing shift in the recognition of ESPN-related affiliate fees. At Media Networks, the Disney unit that includes ESPN, ABC and cable channels like ABC Family, operating income climbed 2 percent, to $2.13 billion. ESPN did suffer higher production costs tied to a shift in timing for National Basketball Associationgames and higher rates for N.B.A. and Major League Baseball programming.
In recent years, some analysts have questioned Disney's high level of capital and acquisition spending, citing global economic weakness. But the most recent quarter offered a strong endorsement of the investment strategy set by Mr. Iger.
"The Avengers" was made by Marvel Entertainment, which Disney acquired in 2009 for $4 billion. Cars Land cost about $450 million, but it seems to have turned around California Adventure, a park that languished for a decade because of underinvestment by Mr. Iger's predecessor.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lightning McQueen at California Adventure park in June. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); FILM (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); RESORTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); RETAILERS (76%); TICKET SALES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); CRUISES (66%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (63%); EXECUTIVES (62%); COMPUTER GAMES (60%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (91%); WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (84%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (91%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (91%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (91%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (84%)

PERSON: ROBERT A IGER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2012



268 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Gains Business and Influence as It Offers Aid and Loans in Africa

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Taylor Barnes contributed reporting.

 BODY:
RIO DE JANEIRO -- In Mozambique, Brazil's government is opening a plant making antiretroviral drugs to fight the AIDS epidemic. Brazil is lending $150 million to Kenya to build roads and ease congestion in the capital, Nairobi. And in Angola, a rising oil power, a new security agreement seeks to expand the training of Angolan military personnel in Brazil.
Brazil, which has more people of African descent than any other country outside of Africa itself, is assertively raising its profile again on the continent, building on historical ties from the time of the Portuguese empire.
The array of aid projects and loans recently extended to African countries points both to Brazil's ambitions of projecting greater influence in the developing world and to the expanding business allure of Africa, where some economies are rapidly growing even as parts of the continent still grapple with wars and famine. The charm offensive is paying off in surging trade flows between Brazil and Africa, growing to $27.6 billion in 2011 from $4.3 billion in 2002. 
''There's the growing sense that Africa is Brazil's frontier,'' said Jerry Dvila, a historian at the University of Illinois who has written extensively about Brazil's inroads across the South Atlantic Ocean. ''Brazil is in the privileged position of finally reaching the institutional capacity to do this.''
Brazil's forays into Africa are similar to the ambitions of other rising powers, like Turkey, which has established its sway in the Arab world, and India's promotion of its culture across Asia.
The prominence given to Africa also reflects Brazil's shift from aid recipient to provider. Big development challenges persist in Brazil, including woeful public schools and a sharp economic slowdown this year. But Brazil is a major agricultural exporter that recently surpassed Britain as the world's sixth-largest economy, and it now boasts more embassies in Africa than Britain does -- a notable change from when Brazil relied on foreign aid in the 1960s, largely from the United States, to alleviate hunger in the country's impoverished northeast.
Africa now accounts for about 55 percent of the disbursements by the Brazilian Cooperation Agency, which oversees aid projects abroad, according to Marco Farani, the agency's director. Altogether, including educational exchanges and an expanding loan portfolio, Brazil's foreign aid exceeds $1 billion, he said. Big portions of Brazilian aid also go to countries in Latin America, and there is a smaller focus on East Timor, the former Portuguese colony in Southeast Asia.
''We still have a smaller foreign aid profile than other some countries, but we're learning how to do cooperation,'' Mr. Farani said.
Brazil still trails other nations, notably China and the United States, which have far more expansive aid programs and trade in Africa. Elsewhere in Latin America, Venezuela and Cuba have offered different ways of enhancing African ties. Venezuela organized a 2009 summit meeting of African and South American leaders, in which President Hugo Chvez tightened an alliance with Libya's leader at the time, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.
During the cold war, Cuban troops supported Communist governments in Africa. In Angola, this mission included the seemingly paradoxical task of protecting a Chevron oil complex at the same time the United States was supporting an insurgency against Angola's leaders. More recently, Cuba has sent thousands of doctors to Africa.
But while the Cuban and Venezuelan efforts have largely prioritized developing-world solidarity with some African nations, Brazil's growing foothold in Africa is more complex, involving ambitions to forge Brazil into a diplomatic and economic powerhouse.
After a surge of openings of diplomatic missions over the past decade, Brazil now has 36 embassies across Africa, and hopes to open its 37th in Malawi this year. Brazil is already using this presence to bolster its actions on the world stage, sending jets to fly delegations from Sierra Leone, Liberia and Cape Verde to the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, which was held here in June.
Other projects are intended to lure Africans to study in Brazil. A new university began offering classes last year for students from Portuguese-speaking countries, including Angola, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, and So Tom and Principe.
Since Brazil does not need to import large amounts of oil or food, its plans in Africa differ somewhat from other countries seeking greater influence there. Outreach projects tie largely into efforts to increase opportunities for Brazilian companies, which sometimes work with Brazil's government in offering aid.
Some of Brazil's biggest inroads, predictably, are in Portuguese-speaking countries like Angola, where the Brazilian construction company Odebrecht ranks among the largest employers, and Mozambique, where the mining giant Vale has begun a $6 billion coal expansion project.
But Brazilian companies are also scouring other parts of Africa for opportunities, putting down stakes in Guinea and Nigeria. A leading Brazilian investment bank, BTG Pactual, started a $1 billion fund in May focused on investing in Africa. New links are also emerging, including Brazilian farming ventures in Sudan; a flight from Addis Ababa, Ethiopia's capital, to So Paulo; and a fiber optic cable connecting northeast Brazil to West Africa.
Some of Brazil's forays in Africa have come with complications, including criticism of warming ties with leaders connected to human rights abuses, like Equatorial Guinea's president, Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo. A freedom-of-information measure has enabled journalists to delve into African arms deals by Brazilian companies, including the sale of cluster bombs to Zimbabwe.
African students studying in Brazil have filed numerous complaints describing slurs and aggression, complicating the myth of ''racial democracy'' that once prevailed here, in which scholars contended that Brazil had largely escaped the discrimination common in other societies.
In one episode here in Rio, Eleutrio Nhantumbo, a Mozambican police officer with a scholarship to study public security at a Brazilian university, said he was stopped by police officers on one occasion. They ordered him to raise his shirt upon exiting a store on the suspicion that he had stolen something.
When he questioned why they had singled him out, he said the officers responded with a racial slur and warned him of addressing them without respect; hearing his accent in Portuguese, they queried him about his origins. ''The police asked, 'Where's Mozambique?' '' said Mr. Nhantumbo, 33. ''They didn't know that there existed a country with this name.''
Brazil, closely linked for centuries to Africa through shipping routes and the slave trade, is thought to have imported 10 times as many slaves as the United States did before slavery was abolished here in 1888. For a stretch in the 19th century, Brazil was the seat of the Portuguese empire, making the capital then, Rio de Janeiro, a nerve center for trade with Africa.
Those ties withered until civilian leaders sought to establish relations with newly independent governments in Africa in the early 1960s. That process cooled after Brazil's military rulers seized power in a 1964 coup supported by the United States.
Then economic necessity and a quest to build autonomy from the United States laid the foundations in the 1970s for today's diplomatic buildup in Africa. Seeking to offset spending on oil imports, including cargoes from Nigeria, military rulers set about opening new markets in Africa for Brazilian companies. They found some success, notably in newly independent Angola.
Brazil's former president, Luiz Incio Lula da Silva, built on those inroads in trips to Africa from 2003 to 2010, referring to the ''historic debt'' Brazil had to Africa in its formation as nation.
PHOTO: In Luanda, Angola, construction workers for the Brazilian company Odebrecht, which is among Angola's largest employers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ISSOUF SANOGO/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A7)

CORRECTION-DATE: September 5, 2012 

 CORRECTION:
An article on Aug. 8 about Brazil's successful effort to raise its profile in Africa through an array of aid projects and loans described imprecisely the location of Angola, which has reached a new security agreement to train its military personnel in Brazil. Angola is on the west coast of southern Africa; it is not a West African nation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (85%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ANTIVIRALS (78%); AIDS & HIV (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (76%); FAMINE (76%); HISTORY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); EPIDEMICS (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); ARMED FORCES (56%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (74%); NAIROBI, KENYA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (78%) BRAZIL (99%); AFRICA (99%); ANGOLA (94%); KENYA (94%); MOZAMBIQUE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); PORTUGAL (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2012



269 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Romney Presses Obama On Work in Welfare Law

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL; Michael D. Shear contributed reporting from New York, and Peter Baker from Washington.

 BODY:
ELK GROVE VILLAGE, Ill. -- Mitt Romney accused President Obama on Tuesday of gutting one of the signature bipartisan accomplishments of the recent political era: the overhaul of welfare policy.Mr. Romney, taking up criticism that has gripped conservatives for the last few weeks, attacked a directive by the Obama administration that Republicans say does an end run around the welfare law, signed by President Bill Clinton in 1996, that is widely credited with reducing government dependency.
''I hope you understand,'' Mr. Romney said while campaigning here, ''President Obama in this last few days has tried to reverse that accomplishment by taking the work requirement out of welfare.'' 
''If I'm president,'' he added, ''I'll put work back in welfare.''
The attack drew an all-out denial from the White House and the Obama campaign, which accused Mr. Romney of warping the issue and, not least, of hypocrisy because, as Massachusetts governor, he urged similar flexibility in the federal law.
The fierce exchange reflected the intense competition for working- and middle-class voters, and recalls the vitriolic debates of the 1990s, which centered on fairness, government dependency and irresponsibility. And in seizing on welfare, a theme that aides said Mr. Romney would continue to amplify in the coming days, he invoked Mr. Clinton, who worked with Republicans to pass welfare reform, as a bipartisan figure -- an implicit contrast with Mr. Obama, whom Republicans portray as a staunch big government liberal.
In a memo released Tuesday, Mr. Romney's policy director, Lanhee Chen, said the administration had delivered ''a kick in the gut to the millions of hard-working middle-class taxpayers struggling in today's economy.''
The speech was part of a coordinated assault with the Republican National Committee, which sounded the theme in a television ad on Tuesday. ''Under Obama's plan, you wouldn't have to work and wouldn't have to train for a job,'' the ad's narrator says. ''They just send you your welfare check.''
That claim seemed a stretch even by the standards of 30-second political ads. Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, which issued the welfare initiative in a memo on July 12, wrote later in the month that to qualify a state must ''move at least 20 percent more people from welfare to work compared to the state's past performance.''
The federal welfare program created in 1996, known as Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, limits how long families can receive benefits and requires recipients to work or prepare for work. Instead of a federal entitlement, the money is distributed by states, whose feet are held to the fire by Washington in order to receive the financing.
The change led to sharply reduced welfare rolls.
In allowing states to seek waivers from features of the work requirements, the administration said it was responding to their requests to streamline bureaucracy.
''Many states report that their caseworkers are spending more time complying with federal-documentation requirements than helping parents find jobs,'' George Sheldon, an acting assistant secretary at the Department of Health and Human Services, wrote in a blog post explaining the ruling.
But conservative critics, including Speaker John A. Boehner and the Heritage Foundation, pounced on the new rules, which they said would lead to redefining ''work'' to include activities like hula dancing and attending weight-loss programs.
Of five states that initially requested or considered waivers, two have Republican governors, Utah and Nevada, the administration said.
Mary-Sarah Kinner, a spokeswoman for Gov. Brian Sandoval of Nevada, said the governor had sought discussions with the federal government about waivers for Nevada's welfare program. In a letter to the federal government, the head of the state's office of health and human services department said that he was ''very interested in working with your staff to explore program waivers.''
But Ms. Kinner, using the language of Mr. Romney's attacks, said in a statement that Mr. Sandoval would never seek a ''request to weaken work requirements.''
On the stump here, Mr. Romney referred to his experience as Massachusetts governor, saying he fought ''time and time again'' against the Democratic Legislature that sought to weaken work requirements for welfare recipients.
But Mr. Romney was also one of 29 Republican governors who urged the federal government in 2005 to allow waivers granting more flexibility for their state welfare programs.
Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, assailed Mr. Romney for supporting, as governor of Massachusetts, changes in the law that would have weakened it. ''Hypocrisy knows no bounds,'' Mr. Carney said.
Asked about the charge of hypocrisy, Mr. Romney told Fox News that he was ''all in favor for flexibility for states.''
''My focus is on increasing work requirements, not eliminating them,'' he added, ''and what the president is doing is saying that we are going to take out the requirement for work. It is a big mistake.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney, in a campaign appearance on Tuesday, accused the president of gutting the bipartisan overhaul of welfare policy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (68%); FAMILY SERVICES (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (62%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); BILL CLINTON (88%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



270 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Washington's Myopic View of Egypt

BYLINE: By BARAK BARFI

 BODY:
CAIRO -- With Egypt caught between a military reluctant to cede the reins of power and a recently elected Islamist president eager to take hold of them, a steady stream of senior American officials has landed in Cairo to nudge the two sides toward compromise. But by focusing on the struggle between ruling elites and their commitment to the peace treaty with Israel, Washington is neglecting Egypt's larger problems -- those that incited an apathetic population to overthrow a president in office for three decades.Following the revolution last year that toppled Hosni Mubarak, the generals that replaced him forged an alliance with the Islamist Muslim Brotherhood he repressed. The military sought to avoid the large-scale protests that paralyzed Egypt during the revolution.
The Brotherhood, the most organized of the country's political movements, wanted to ensure speedy elections. To this end, the organization opposed demonstrations the military could use as pretexts to postpone balloting. 
Following its impressive victory in parliamentary and presidential elections, the Brotherhood no longer needs the generals. Today the two are locked in a power struggle as the military seeks to shield its budgetary prerogatives and commercial fiefdoms from newly elected leaders eager to assert their authority. The military has never been encumbered by civilian oversight. And it runs hundreds of companies that churn out everything from vehicles to olive oil that rely on generous state subsidies a fiscally strapped government may seek to revoke.
In recent weeks, Washington has waded into the budding conflict. Last month, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton arrived in Cairo declaring that ''the United States supports the full transition to civilian rule.'' Last week, Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta came bearing the same message, announcing that America is ''committed to helping a sovereign Egypt complete the transformation to full civilian rule.''
Lost in Washington's myopic focus on democratic transition is an understanding of the socioeconomic problems that brought Egyptians into the streets last year and how to help the country address them. For American politicians watching the revolution on television, the protests looked like pro-democracy demonstrations. But in Cairo's Tahrir square, the reality was much different.
During the 18-day uprising Egyptians shared with me a litany of grievances ranging from a lack of affordable housing to poor health services. What united the disparate groups was exasperation with a Mubarak regime that had long lost touch with its citizenry, and instead enriched its political supporters.
Today, Egyptians are focused on purifying an ossified political system that prevents social mobility and is rife with corruption. Everything from securing a job to obtaining a driver's license requires a bribe. Security reform is a priority for a people tyrannized by intelligence officials and police officers who spearheaded indiscriminate and unsystematic crackdowns. And in a country where a bloated, inefficient bureaucracy exists largely to absorb new college graduates with no other employment prospects, government services are poor to nonexistent.
Though Egyptians expected a post-Mubarak government to address these concerns, the military's record is mixed at best. It was only too eager to acquiesce to demands to put the former president's cronies on trial, given that these men were the generals' primary adversaries. But the military council shielded its own business colleagues from prosecution.
A handover of power to the country's new civilian rulers will not resolve the country's dilemmas. In fact, it may only exacerbate them. The Brotherhood will certainly focus on reforming beleaguered institutions. But it will also seek to restructure the judiciary, which views itself as Egypt's last defense against the Islamist onslaught that has inundated society.
As part of this campaign, the Supreme Court invalidated the recent parliamentary elections that brought the Brotherhood to power. To blunt the magistrates' influence, the Islamists are bent on purging Mubarak-appointed judges who acquiesced to the state's crackdown against them. Though the judiciary did at times facilitate the regime's agenda, it also proved itself a vocal opponent, agitating for a clearer separation of powers.
As the military and the Brotherhood jockey for power, they are ignoring the reforms Egyptians demand. By focusing on the struggle between these two factions, Washington is facilitating this convenient omission. Instead of fixating on the transition of power, the United States should urge Egypt's new rulers to better heed its disgruntled population.
Moreover, Washington's constant queries about Cairo's position concerning the peace treaty with Israel are self-defeating. If Egypt's economic situation deteriorates, and the new government cannot meet the needs of its citizens, populist politicians will arise claiming they can. In the tinderbox that is Egypt, they will surely exploit a subject as sensitive as the Camp David accords to attract frustrated voters.
Egypt's elected leaders are bound to stumble as they assume control after 60 years of authoritarian rule. Washington should be able to help them avoid the pitfalls. But if the United States continues to neglect Egypt's structural problems, the country's new leaders risk falling into the same traps as their predecessors.
Barak Barfi is a research fellow at the New America Foundation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); CORRUPTION (69%); BRIBERY (66%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (51%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); LEON E PANETTA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (91%) EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



271 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Polls Underline Stubborn Splits In 3 Key States

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and ALLISON KOPICKI; Marina Stefan and Marjorie Connelly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
For all of the Democratic attacks painting Mitt Romney as an out-of-touch elitist who will help the rich at the expense of the middle class, he is maintaining the traditional -- and sizable -- Republican advantage among a politically vital constituency, white working-class voters in the states most likely to decide the presidential election.And despite Republican efforts to use the weak economy to drive a wedge between President Obama and women on Election Day, the president is holding on to their crucial support in most battleground states.
Those findings, contained in the latest batch of Quinnipiac University/New York Times/CBS News swing state polls, highlight the stubborn divisions of this year's presidential race among two of the most important voting groups in the most hotly contested states.
But they also help explain the intense efforts of the two campaigns to alter the balance in both groups, which together will go a long way toward determining the outcome. 
Mr. Obama's goal is to keep Mr. Romney from running up huge margins among white working-class voters -- defined as those without college degrees and with household incomes of $30,000 to $100,000 -- who could give him the edge.
New results from surveys over the past week in Colorado, Virginia and Wisconsin, combined with surveys last week in Florida, Ohio and Pennsylvania, show that Mr. Romney so far appears to be holding his own with that group, but running no stronger than Senator John McCain did four years ago.
Similarly, Mr. Romney is trying to peel off as many female voters as possible from Mr. Obama's electoral coalition, hoping to offset the president's advantages among single and nonwhite women by appealing to married and white women with a message about economic security and pocketbook issues.
But while the poll suggests that Mr. Romney is making inroads among women in Colorado, where he is also showing strength against Mr. Obama by several other measures, support for Mr. Obama among women has otherwise held up in the battleground states. As a result, Mr. Obama has so far been able to stave off bigger losses in the most hotly contested states, in particular among independents, who are divided in Colorado and Wisconsin and supporting Mr. Romney in Virginia, and white men, who are supporting Mr. Romney by double digits over the president in all three states.
Far more than national polls, which can track the mood of the electorate only as a whole, the results in the state-by-state polls provide a detailed snapshot of the race where it matters most, in geography and demography. They also help explain why both the Obama and Romney campaigns are focusing so much of their time and money on messages intended to resonate with such specific groups in such specific places.
The latest polls underscore just how tight the race continues to be, with the candidates running closely in Virginia and Colorado and Mr. Obama leading in Wisconsin, though not by his double-digit margin of victory in 2008. Mr. Obama won all three states in 2008.
Mr. Obama is struggling because of the economy and facing new challenges in Colorado, where his support among white men has fallen considerably from where it was in exit polls there in 2008.
But Mr. Romney is also struggling to connect with middle-class voters. And about half of voters in each of the three states said presidential candidates should release several years of tax returns. (Mr. Romney has so far declined to release more than two years of returns amid calls by Democrats and even Republicans for more.)
Combined with the surveys last week in Florida, Ohio and Pennsylvania, the new state polls paint a portrait of an electorate that has largely made up its mind but sees both candidates as having vulnerabilities -- giving each side opportunities to exploit.
In all three states, more voters said that Mr. Obama's policies would hurt their personal finances if he were elected to a second term than said they would help.
Mr. Romney is running ads in Virginia and Colorado featuring the owner of a metal fabricating business who asserts Mr. Obama is undermining him; the campaign has named his coming bus tour ''The Romney Plan for a Stronger Middle Class.''
Intent on holding support among women, Mr. Obama is showing commercials calling Mr. Romney both ''out of touch'' on women's health and a threat to abortion rights; on Monday, Mr. Obama called Mr. Romney ''Romney Hood,'' saying his tax plans would take from the middle class to give to the rich.
Still, in Wisconsin, Mr. Romney led Mr. Obama by 14 percentage points among white voters who did not graduate from college and have household incomes of $30,000 to $100,000; he led by 15 percentage points among these voters in Colorado and by 31 percentage points in Virginia.
But more voters over all in the three states said Mr. Obama cares about their needs and problems than said the same about Mr. Romney.
''Romney seems to be in touch only with the ultra-wealthy,'' said Deb Bracken, of Broomfield, Colo., a registered nurse who identified herself in a follow-up interview as an independent voter. ''And at least Obama has a clue about women's issues.''
Mr. Obama led among women by 8 points in Colorado, by 14 points in Virginia and by 23 points in Wisconsin. But nearly 4 in 10 voters in each state said the national economy was getting worse.
''There are a lot of things that Obama did that I don't agree with, like the bailouts,'' said Kelly Blankenship, 27, a logger from Dublin, Va., who said he was an independent voter. ''My job is another reason I don't care for him. The timber company I work for lost a lot of jobs because of the green initiative.''
Even as Mr. Obama lagged among men like Mr. Blankenship in Virginia, the Quinnipiac/Times/CBS News poll found a four-point edge for him in the state. That was within the poll's margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points on each candidate.
Mr. Romney holds a five-point advantage in Colorado, also within the poll's margin of sampling error. Mr. Obama's lead in Wisconsin of 6 percentage points was statistically significant, though he won the state by roughly 14 percentage points in 2008.
In all three states -- as well as in Pennsylvania and Ohio in last week's Quinnipiac/Times/CBS News polls -- women said Mr. Obama would do a better job than Mr. Romney would on health care. White working-class voters in all six states surveyed in the last two sets of polls said they believed Mr. Romney would do a better job on the economy.
''Romney has experience in running a big business, and the country is definitely a big business,'' said Scott Coble of Denver, a machine operator in a steel supply company and an independent.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The candidates
The economy
 Gun control laws (Based on telephone interviews conducted July 31-Aug. 6 with 1,463 likely voters in Colorado, 1,412 likely voters in Virginia, and 1,428 likely voters in Wisconsin. Those with no opinion are not shown.) (A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



272 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: The Folly Of Attacking Outsourcing

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER. 
E-mail: eporter@nytimes.com; Twitter: @portereduardo

 BODY:
The middle class, I'm sure you've heard, is under threat by cheap foreign labor. We must be having an election soon. President Obama's assault on Mitt Romney for sending jobs overseas draws from a playbook used repeatedly by politicians of the right and left over the last two decades.In 1992, Ross Perot ran for president on the strength of the ''giant sucking sound'' of jobs going to Mexico. Four years later, Pat Buchanan tried to gain the Republican nomination by promising to repeal the North American Free Trade Agreement and withdraw from the World Trade Organization. In 2004, John Kerry accused George W. Bush of providing tax breaks to outsourcers.
What's most revealing about the political assault on outsourcing is that while the critique of foreign commerce has moved decisively from the fringes into the political mainstream, our political leaders have yet to turn their rhetorical skepticism into policy.
Americans' fear of foreign trade has grown sharply in the last 20 years, in tandem with a rising tide of globalization that has exposed American workers to overwhelming competition from laborers in developing countries. 
In 1994, the year Nafta went into effect, trade amounted to 22 percent of the nation's gross domestic product. By the eve of the financial crisis in 2008, it amounted to 31 percent. Over this period, the share of Americans who believed trade was a threat to the economy rose to 52 percent from 38 percent. Still, though our political leaders may feel workers' pain, they have stopped short of following voters' preferred prescriptions.
Last year, the White House pushed through free trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama despite the fact that only 38 percent of Americans supported the deals and 41 percent opposed them. Most Americans fear China's rise as an exporting powerhouse. Many think Congress should slap tariffs on Chinese imports to compensate for its manipulation of the exchange rate. But the Obama administration, like the Bush administration before it, has repeatedly refused to do so.
A disconnect between campaign rhetoric and policy is hardly surprising. The most committed critics of the nation's trade policies will argue that President Obama, like his predecessors, has been co-opted by pro-trade corporate interests. But the political contradictions wrought by globalization ring of more than politics as usual. More likely, our political leaders haven't figured out what to do about this relentless economic force that is reshaping the American economy and society.
This is boxing the political class into a somewhat sterile debate. Political leaders promising that globalization can be slowed, stopped or even reversed by raising barriers against imports or penalizing companies that send jobs overseas are offering false comfort. They are also distracting voters from a necessary debate about how to make the relentless tide work for the American middle class even as it brings impoverished nations like India and China into the modern economy.
The political debate about globalization tends to get stuck between a couple of propositions: on the one hand, globalization tends to reduce prices of goods and services and bolster economic growth, helping companies become more efficient. On the other, it hurts the workers who are brought into direct competition with cheaper labor overseas. Yet the debate often ignores an essential fact: regardless of who wins and who loses from the process, it is pretty much irreversible.
Businesses are too far along in the process of globalizing their supply chains, building international production lines that draw ideas, components and resources from wherever they are best, most abundant or cheapest in the world. In 2006, intracompany trade accounted for nearly 33 percent of the nation's imports and more than 27 percent of its exports. Raising a wall against a given import would short-circuit production lines around the world, including in the United States.
What's more, most growth over the next decade will happen in big developing countries beyond the nation's borders. Using barriers and penalties to bar imports and discourage outsourcing -- which would surely draw retaliation from other countries -- would unhitch the nation from the world's main economic engines.
But the fact that globalization is here to stay doesn't mean that nothing can be done for workers, who have come to fear the process of global integration as a zero-sum game, which ends with their jobs moving somewhere where labor is cheaper. Some of the prescriptions are straightforward. Ambivalence toward globalization is not unique to the United States. But Americans tend to be more fearful of the impact of trade than, say, Europeans.
One reason is that American workers are particularly ill equipped to cope with the dislocations caused by foreign competition. An American worker who loses her job to trade or technology will find herself in a much worse spot than if she was, say, German or French. For starters, she will lose her health insurance. And her unemployment benefits will be considerably less generous.
The United States also does a poor job of educating workers to take advantage of globalization's opportunities. We were once the most educated nation in the world -- the first to provide universal high school education and the first to provide widespread access to college. But college graduation rates have stagnated and are now at the same rate they were a generation ago, while a host of other countries have barreled ahead. The lag leaves American workers particularly exposed to foreign competition for lower-skilled jobs -- which has been weighing down their wages for more than a decade.
Coping with globalization isn't going to get easier, as companies in developing countries continue to rise up the technological ladder to produce more advanced goods in direct competition with workers in the United States.
Multinational companies' freedom to move their money across borders, to wherever the return is highest, raises new issues. Corporations can relocate to escape taxes and regulation, setting up shop where the rules are easiest. Investment in machines and high-technology plants abroad erodes the productivity edge that American workers hold over workers in China or Brazil.
The challenges call for a more sophisticated debate about trade. American policy makers might consider global taxation treaties, to reduce the scope for tax competition. They could engage foreign countries in a debate on global standards -- overcoming mistrust of American protectionism to develop rules protecting workers from abuse by footloose corporations seeking the cheapest labor. And they could think about the kind of safety net needed to protect workers from the dislocations that the relentless onslaught of globalization is sure to bring.
The Obama administration has made some progress along these lines. The Obama health care law is the single most important contribution to the nation's social safety net since the administration of Lyndon B. Johnson, ensuring that workers who lose their jobs in the future do not also lose their health insurance. But President Obama has yet to move beyond blunt criticism of outsourcing to sketch out a strategy to embrace the inevitable march of globalization.
He could still criticize Mitt Romney. But the most useful critique of Mr. Romney's stance is not that he favors outsourcing but that the rest of his economic platform -- which proposes cuts in government spending on education, unemployment insurance and other social programs to pay for tax cuts for high-income Americans -- would undercut the nation's ability to cope in the globalized economy he appears to champion.
Hewing to the standard anti-outsourcing playbook may gain a few votes in November. But American workers need more. They need a set of policies that gives them a stake in the fruits of the more prosperous global economy that globalization can bring.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Embracing Trade: The integration of the United States into the global economy has exposed American workers to increased foreign competition. (Source: World Bank) (B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); POLITICS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); IMPORT CONTROLS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (66%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); EXCHANGE RATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); PANAMA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



273 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: Obama Is an Avid Reader, and Critic, of the News

BYLINE: By AMY CHOZICK

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A few months after President Obama's $787 billion economic stimulus package passed, he began to notice news reports, but not about the jobs the bill might create or how much of the country's infrastructure it would repair. Instead, the articles focused on traffic jams.''Traffic Set to Slow as Stimulus Gears Up,'' as the headline on a 2009 article in USA Today read.
Jared Bernstein, an economist in the administration at the time, said the articles exemplified the White House's problems with news media coverage. ''The feeling was, 'man, we can't catch a break,' '' he said.
While former President George W. Bush and his aides liked to say they ignored the Fourth Estate, Mr. Obama is an avid consumer of political news and commentary. But in his informal role as news media critic in chief, he developed a detailed critique of modern news coverage that he regularly expresses to those around him. 
The news media have played a crucial role in Mr. Obama's career, helping to make him a national star not long after he had been an anonymous state legislator. As president, however, he has come to believe the news media have had a role in frustrating his ambitions to change the terms of the country's political discussion. He particularly believes that Democrats do not receive enough credit for their willingness to accept cuts in Medicare and Social Security, while Republicans oppose almost any tax increase to reduce the deficit.
Privately and publicly, Mr. Obama has articulated what he sees as two overarching problems: coverage that focuses on political winners and losers rather than substance; and a ''false balance,'' in which two opposing sides are given equal weight regardless of the facts.
Mr. Obama's assessments overlap with common critiques from academics and journalism pundits, but when coming from a sitting president the appraisal is hardly objective, the experts say.
''I think we've learned through history to beware of presidents playing press critic,'' said Tom Rosenstiel, director of the Project for Excellence in Journalism. ''They're not press critics -- they're people trying to advance a political agenda.''
A writer before he was a politician, Mr. Obama is a voracious consumer of news, reading newspapers and magazines on his iPad and in print and dipping into blogs and Twitter. He regularly gives aides detailed descriptions of articles that he liked, and he can be thin-skinned about those that he does not.
He typically begins his day upstairs in the White House reading the major newspapers, including his hometown Chicago Tribune and Chicago Sun-Times, mostly on his iPad through apps rather than their Web sites. He also skims articles that aides e-mail to him, with the subject line stating the publication and the headline (like ''WSJ: Moody's Downgrades Banks'').
During the day, Mr. Obama reads newspapers on his iPad and print copies of magazines like The Economist and The New Yorker. On most Air Force One flights, he catches up on the news on his iPad.
In news conferences and staff meetings, he will mention an article (like Jonathan Chait's New York Magazine feature last year on the evergreen nature of liberal disillusionment) when it suits his argument. By all accounts, Mr. Obama prefers his news in longer articles. He almost never watches television news.
But Mr. Obama has used new media to his advantage. He has hosted Twitter ''town hall'' sessions at the White House, a Google ''hangout'' and a discussion via LinkedIn. In May, Mr. Obama announced with 30 minutes advance notice that he would answer questions on Twitter, a move that rattled the White House press corps. ''Today's #WHChat was announced hours ago,'' deputy press secretary Josh Earnest wrote on Twitter. ''POTUS answering q's was last-minute surprise.''
In dealing directly with the news media, Mr. Obama prefers small sit-downs with columnists, including The Wall Street Journal's Peggy Noonan, The Washington Post's E. J. Dionne and Ruth Marcus, and The New York Times's David Brooks, among others, and beat reporters specializing in economics or foreign policy, to political reporters whose coverage he often considers frivolous, said a White House official not authorized to discuss the president's media preferences for attribution. ''After you run a two-year presidential campaign, you're ready to sit down and have a long conversation about China,'' one longtime Obama aide said.
In addition to well-known columnists, Mr. Obama also holds summit meetings with niche online outlets that did not have access, or did not exist, during previous administrations, including personal finance Web sites like The Consumerist and Fool.com, and African-American Web sites like Jack & Jill Politics, The Root and theGrio.
That approach can frustrate White House reporters whose job is to cover the president's day-to-day activities. It has also hurt the White House's messaging efforts, said Christopher Ruddy, chief executive of Newsmax, a conservative magazine and Web site. Presidents Ronald Reagan, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush all better ''understood that the campaign didn't end and that public perception was vitally important to governing,'' Mr. Ruddy said.
Mr. Obama has said the lack of an effective narrative has been one of his administration's biggest missteps. ''The mistake of my first term -- couple of years -- was thinking that this job was just about getting the policy right,'' Mr. Obama said in an interview last month with CBS's Charlie Rose. ''But the nature of this office is also to tell a story to the American people.''
While Mr. Obama frequently criticizes the heated speech of cable news, he sees what he views as deeper problems in news outlets that strive for objectivity. In private meetings with columnists, he has talked about the concept of ''false balance'' -- that reporters should not give equal weight to both sides of an argument when one side is factually incorrect. He frequently cites the coverage of health care and the stimulus package as examples, according to aides familiar with the meetings.
Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, was previously Time magazine's Washington bureau chief. He said the president thought that some journalists were more comfortable blaming both parties, regardless of the facts. ''To be saying 'they're both equally wrong' or 'they're both equally bad,' '' Mr. Carney said, ''then you look high-minded.''
The term ''false balance,'' which has been embraced by many Democrats, emerged in academic papers in the 1990s to describe global-warming coverage.
''I believe this type of 'accuracy' and 'balance' are a huge thing afflicting contemporary media,'' said Josh Marshall, editor and publisher of the left-leaning Web site Talking Points Memo.
Conservative pundits see things differently. ''Obama is used to the press cheerleading for him so any time a story gets reported straight he's likely to think it represents a false equivalency,'' said John H. Hinderaker, a Minneapolis lawyer behind Power Line, a conservative political Web site.
Many journalism experts, for their part, agree that the news media sometimes struggle to distinguish fact from claim, even if Mr. Obama's version of the critique always paints his administration in a good light.
''I think sometimes we in the media -- particularly under the crunch of deadlines -- don't have time to work through all the issues of discerning what is fact,'' said Paul E. Steiger, chief executive of ProPublica, the nonprofit investigative news organization, and a former Wall Street Journal managing editor, ''and so we say 'he said, she said.' ''
Mr. Obama has, on occasion, acknowledged that he is not exactly an unbiased news media critic. ''You will cover every word that we say, and we will complain vociferously about the unflattering words that you write,'' Mr. Obama said at an Associated Press luncheon in April. ''Unless, of course, you're writing about the other guy -- in which case, good job.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama on the White House grounds with an iPad, which he uses often for news. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); LITERARY CRITICISM (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); NEWS REPORTING (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); WRITERS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (58%)

COMPANY: CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JARED BERNSTEIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



274 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Inquiry Into Iran Deals Is an Abrupt Reversal At Standard Chartered

BYLINE: By MARK SCOTT

 BODY:
6:07 p.m. | Updated LONDON - Long a golden child among global banks, the British bank Standard Chartered now wears a somewhat tarnished crown.
The bank's investors were rattled by accusations that it had schemed with the Iranian government to hide $250 billion in money transfers over nearly a decade. On Tuesday, shares of Standard Chartered fell as much as 25 percent - their sharpest one-day decline in more than two decades - before recovering to end London trading down 16 percent.
The accusations upset a widely held view of Standard Chartered as a banking success story, thanks to its large operations in emerging markets in Asia and elsewhere. 
Unlike other European financial institutions hit by the Continent's debt crisis, Standard Chartered, a London-based bank with roots that date to 1853, continued to report rising profits. Last week, the bank said its net profit for the first half of the year rose 11.3 percent, to $2.86 billion. Around 90 percent of the profit came from developing economies.
Central to Standard Chartered's business is its ability to facilitate trade between emerging economies and developed countries by clearing transactions in New York City. That ability came under threat on Monday when New York State's top banking regulator, the Department of Financial Services, said it had grounds to revoke the bank's license in the state. The bank must appear before the state's banking superintendent on Aug. 15 to explain why that should not happen.
Standard Chartered's New York office, which has been licensed since 1976, primarily operates a dollar-clearing business, moving roughly $190 billion a day. It also does corporate lending, trade finance, foreign exchange trading and wire transfer services, among other business.
The regulator has accused the bank of masking more than 60,000 transactions for Iranian banks and corporations, pocketing millions of dollars in fees.
Senior management at the bank used the New York branch "as a front for prohibited dealings with Iran - dealings that indisputably helped sustain a global threat to peace and stability," the regulator said.
The accusations cast a shadow over Peter Sands, the bank's chief executive, who was the company's financial director from 2002 to 2006. Mr. Sands had been mentioned as a potential future head of the rival British bank Barclays.
Standard Chartered has gone on the defensive, rejecting the New York regulator's portrayal of the facts. The bank said that 99.9 percent of the transactions related to Iran complied with regulations.
The bank's "review of its Iranian payments also did not identify a single payment on behalf of any party that was designated at the time by the U.S. government as a terrorist entity or organization," it said in a statement.
Penalties connected to the money laundering case may cost Standard Chartered around $1.5 billion, according to Cormac Leech, a banking analyst with Liberum Capital in London.
Mr. Leech said the firm also could lose an additional $1 billion from a cutback in business operations connected to Iran, as well as $3 billion in market value if some of the bank's senior executives, including Mr. Sands, are forced to resign.
However, analysts said on Tuesday that loss of the bank's ability to operate in the United States was unlikely because authorities had focused their attention on monetary fines.
Still, the damage to Standard Chartered's reputation and the continuing investigations into the bank's activities with Libya, Myanmar and Sudan may weigh on earnings in the short term, according to Chintan Joshi, a banking analyst with Nomura in London.
The money laundering accusations come at a broadly difficult time for British banks.
Barclays agreed to a $450 million settlement with American and British officials in June after some of its traders and senior executives were found to have altered the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, for financial gain.
HSBC apologized last month for not cracking down soon enough on money laundering activities in the United States. David Bagley, the head of compliance for HSBC since 2002, resigned last month because of the scandal.
Analysts said Standard Chartered's emphasis on emerging markets would help to limit the long-term effects of the allegations.
Last week, the bank said it planned to open more branches in countries with fast-growing economies, like China and India, as it exploits a decline in its competitors' trading activity. Standard Chartered also reported double-digit growth in its wholesale and consumer banking divisions during the first six months of the year.
Before the money laundering accusations were made public, shares of the bank outperformed other financial institutions. Over the last 12 months, Standard Chartered's stock rose 10.4 percent, compared with a 12.8 percent drop in the Stoxx Europe 600 Banks index.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Peter Sands, the chief of Standard Chartered.
 Standard Chartered's offices in London. The bank has been accused of helping the Iranian government conceal billions of dollars. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SIMON DAWSON/BLOOMBERG NEWS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); WIRE TRANSFERS (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); DEBT CRISIS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MONEY LAUNDERING (60%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (50%)

PERSON: PETER SANDS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



275 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
InternationalECHOES OF SYRIA'S WAR
IN THE GOLAN HEIGHTS
As fighting rages in Syria between the government forces and rebels, the conflict is playing out on a smaller scale in Syrian Druse villages on the Israeli-held portion of the Golan Heights across the old cease-fire line. Buqata Journal. PAGE A6
NEW PARK ALONG THE SEINE 
A dream project of the mayor of Paris to reduce car traffic along the banks of the Seine is moving forward, and some work has already begun to make room for more bars, cafes and walkways. The city intends to create a riverside park of about 11 acres. PAGE A4
National
BREACH AT NUCLEAR FACILITY
RAISES SECURITY CONCERNS
A security breach by three pacifists at one of the nation's most sensitive nuclear weapons facilities has prompted the Department of Energy to reappraise security measures and private experts to criticize the agency's safeguarding of nuclear stockpiles. PAGE A8
OBAMA'S OLYMPIC FEVER
Unlike the candidate who once ran an Olympics, President Obama has been using the Games as an instrument of his campaign. It is carefully considered politics given that Mr. Obama is consistently accused of somehow not being American enough. PAGE A9
New York
EVEN AS BROOKLYN CHANGES,
FACTORY WORK REAPPEARS
In a promising twist for the city's survival as a place where things are made, Brooklyn is increasingly retaining some of the remaining industrial spaces for small-scale, small-batch manufacturing, driven by a surge of entrepreneurs. PAGE A13
A BRONX LIBRARY REBORN
The stacks of the Huntington Free Library and Reading Room in the Bronx, which once overflowed with prized American Indian manuscripts, books and artwork, is trying to reinvent itself as a community library. PAGE A16
Business
PROPOSED 75% TAX RATE
CHILLS WEALTHY IN FRANCE
A chill is wafting over France's business class as President Franois Hollande presses a manifesto to ''pay extra tax to get the country back on its feet again.'' He is vowing to impose a 75 percent tax on the portion of anyone's income above a million euros a year. PAGE B1
DISNEY PROFIT SURGES
The Walt Disney Company, often viewed as a window into consumer confidence, beat expectations with a 24 percent increase in quarterly profit, powered by the success of the film ''Marvel's The Avengers'' and the ''Cars''-related expansion of a theme park. PAGE B3
Sports
TWO BROTHERS WIN MEDALS
IN MEN'S TRIATHLON
Alistair Brownlee won the men's triathlon and his brother Jonathan finished third, giving Britain its first medals in the event. The Brownlees spoke with pride about being on the medals podium, but also with visible relief. PAGE B15
KENYA'S JAVELIN THROWER
Kenya has sent 44 track and field athletes to the London Games. Forty-three are runners and the other is Julius Yego, a javelin thrower, who says that just making it to the London Games is ''a glorious thing.'' PAGE B18
Arts
REVIVING THOMAS BROWNE,
A FORGOTTEN NOVELIST
The Renaissance scholars and married couple Stephen Greenblatt and Ramie Targoff are trying to renew the reputation of Thomas Browne, a 17th-century physician and novelist whose name once kept company with Shakespeare, Chaucer and other architects of the English language. PAGE C1
HEADY AIR OF CREATIVITY
The scope of the Vail International Dance Festival is remarkable by any standard, writes Alastair Macaulay. One program featured world premieres by Brian Brooks, Matthew Neenan, Doug Varone and Christopher Wheeldon. PAGE C1
Obituaries
MARK O'DONNELL, 58
He won a Tony Award in 2003 as co-author of the book for the rollicking Broadway musical ''Hairspray'' and was nominated for another in 2008 for ''Cry-Baby.'' He also won a Guggenheim fellowship and a George S. Kaufman Award. PAGE B10
Dining
CHINESE BEAR PAWS
TICKLE THE FRENCH
An exhibition in Paris about the culture of cooking and eating in China showcases a Shang dynasty recipe for bear paw. The preparation called for it to go rancid for one or two years before cooking it. Bear paws are still a ritual dish for the Chinese and are common on the black market. PAGE D1
SIPPING ON A SUNSET
Aperol, a slightly bitter, go-down-easy Italian aperitif, has found its way into bartenders' flutes and highball glasses from Los Angeles to London. The popularity of the century-old mixer stems in part from Aperol's versatility and uncommon hue. PAGE D1
TRUFFLE-HUNTING DOGS
Most commercial foragers in Oregon harvest truffles by raking, but a school in Oregon City trains dogs to become adroit hunters of the native fungi, which are among the Pacific Northwest's most prized delicacies. PAGE D5
EMPIRE STRETCHES ITS DOUGH
The pizza at Nicoletta, Michael White's restaurant in the East Village, is not quite deep dish, although the crust is as strong as epoxy, and Mr. White piles it up with an abundance of toppings that would buckle an ordinary pie. Review by Pete Wells. PAGE D4
Op-Ed
MAUREEN DOWD PAGE A15
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN PAGE A15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); RUNNING (88%); SPORTS (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); LIBRARIES (86%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MAYORS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (74%); POWER PLANTS (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); TRACK & FIELD (72%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (72%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (71%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (71%); NATIVE AMERICANS (66%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); COMPANY PROFITS (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (54%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (81%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (81%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (81%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (81%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (81%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (85%); FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) SYRIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (92%); KENYA (92%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



276 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: Indigestion for 'les Riches'

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN

 BODY:
PARIS -- The call to Vincent Grandil's Paris law firm began like many others that have rolled in recently. On the line was the well-paid chief executive of one of France's most profitable companies, and he was feeling nervous.President Franois Hollandeis vowing to impose a 75 percent tax on the portion of anyone's income above a million euros ($1.24 million) a year. ''Should I be preparing to leave the country?'' the executive asked Mr. Grandil.
The lawyer's counsel: Wait and see. For now, at least.
''We're getting a lot of calls from high earners who are asking whether they should get out of France,'' said Mr. Grandil, a partner at Altexis, which specializes in tax matters for corporations and the wealthy. ''Even young, dynamic people pulling in 200,000 euros are wondering whether to remain in a country where making money is not considered a good thing.'' 
A chill is wafting over France's business class as Mr. Hollande, the country's first Socialist president since Franois Mitterrand in the 1980s, presses a manifesto of patriotism to ''pay extra tax to get the country back on its feet again.'' The 75 percent tax proposal, which Parliament plans to take up in September, is ostensibly aimed at bolstering French finances as Europe's long-running debt crisisintensifies.
But because there are relatively few people in France whose income would incur such a tax -- an estimated 7,000 to 30,000 in a country of 65 million -- the gains might contribute but a small fraction of the 33 billion euros in new revenue the government wants to raise next year to help balance the budget.
The French finance ministry did not respond to requests for an estimate of the revenue the tax might raise. Though the amount would be low, some analysts note that a tax hit on the rich would provide political cover for painful cuts Mr. Hollande may need to make next year in social and welfare programs that are likely to be far less popular with the rank and file.
In that regard, the tax could have enormous symbolic value as a blow for egalit, coming from a new president who has proclaimed, ''I don't like the rich.''
''French people have an uncomfortable relationship with money,'' Mr. Grandil said. ''Here, someone who is a self-made man, creating jobs and ending up as a millionaire, is viewed with suspicion. This is big cultural difference between France and the United States.''
Many companies are studying contingency plans to move high-paid executives outside of France, according to consultants, lawyers, accountants and real estate agents -- who are highly protective of their clients and decline to identify them by name. They say some executives and wealthy people have already packed up for destinations like Britain, Belgium, Switzerland and the United States, taking their taxable income with them.
They also know of companies -- start-ups and multinationals alike -- that are delaying plans to invest in France or to move employees or new hires here.
Whether many wealthy residents will actually leave and companies will change their plans, of course, remains to be seen. Some of the criticism could be political posturing, aimed at trying to dissuade the government from going through with the planned tax increase.
But some wealthy people left after Mr. Mitterrand raised taxes in the 1980s. And more recently, the former Victoria's Secret model Laetetia Casta, the restaurateur Alain Ducasse and the singer Johnny Hallyday caused a stir by moving to countries just across the border to escape the French treasury's heavy hand.
There is no question Mr. Hollande is under fiscal pressure. He has pledged to reduce France's budget deficit, currently 4.5 percent of the nation's gross domestic product, to 3 percent by next year, to meet euro zone rules.
The matter of how best to hit that target, though, is as much a political question as a fiscal one. Mr. Hollande was elected in May on a wave of resentment against ''les riches'' -- company executives, bankers, sports stars and celebrities whose paychecks tend to be seen as scandalous in a country where the growing divide between rich and poor touches a cultural nerve whose roots predate Robespierre.
Half the nation's households earn less than 19,000 euros a year; only about 10 percent of households earn more than 60,000 euros annually, according to the French statistics agency, Insee.
There is currently no plan to change the tax rates for most people, which is 14 percent for the poorest and 30 percent for the next rung. For higher earners -- people with incomes above 70,830 euros a year -- the tax rate will soon rise to 44 percent, up from 41, in a change that was already set before Mr. Hollande's election.
A tax accountant in Paris with many wealthy clients, Steve Horton, has calculated that a two-parent, two-child household with taxable annual income of a bit more than 2.22 million euros ($2.75 million) now has after-tax take-home pay of about 1.1 million euros ($1.35 million) under France's current tax system.
That household would end up with 780,000 euros, or $966,000, if the Hollande tax took effect, Mr. Horton says. (The same family, with comparable income in Manhattan, would take home $1.55 million, the dollar equivalent of 1.25 million euros, after paying federal, state and city income taxes, he calculated.)
Taxes are high in France for a reason: they pay for one of Europe's most generous social welfare systems and a large government. As Mr. Hollande has described it, the tax plan is about ''justice,'' and ''sending out a signal, a message of social cohesion.''
That struck a chord with voters angry about the wealth divide. And it is supported by some economists, including Thomas Piketty, a professor at the Paris School of Economics, who has conducted studies indicating that high earners will not work less hard if taxed more. But some say France could send out the wrong signal.
''People have an acceptable amount of taxes they are willing to pay,'' said Mr. Horton, the accountant, ''and if it goes above that, they will move somewhere that's more reasonable.''
''The thing French politicians don't seem to understand or care about is that when you tax away two-thirds of someone's earnings to appeal to voters, productive people who can enrich businesses and the economy won't come -- or they will just leave,'' said Diane Segalen, a corporate headhunter.
She said she had been close to sealing a deal for a seasoned executive in London to join one of France's biggest companies earlier this year, when Mr. Hollande made his 75 percent vow.
''When the guy heard that, he said, 'I'm not coming,' and withdrew from the process,'' said Mrs. Segalen, the head of the Segalen et Associs, a consulting firm.
For Mrs. Segalen, the proposal is the latest red flag in a country that has long labored under the image of being a difficult place to do business. France has a 33 percent corporate tax rate -- the euro zone's second-highest, after Malta's 35 percent. That contrasts with the 12.5 percent rate in Ireland, which has deliberately kept a lid on corporate taxes as a lure to businesses.
''It is a ridiculous proposal, but it's great for us,'' said Jean Dekerchove, the manager of Immobilir Le Lion, a high-end real estate agency based in Brussels. Calls to his office have picked up in recent months, he said, as wealthy French citizens look to invest or simply move across the border amid worries about the latest tax.
''It's a huge loss for France because people and businesses come to Belgium and bring their wealth with them,'' Mr. Dekerchove said. ''But we're thrilled because they create jobs, they buy houses and spend money -- and it's our economy that profits.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (B1)
Vincent Grandil, a tax lawyer in Paris, said many of his wealthy clients were asking him if they should bother to remain in France. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS HUMERY FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE)
Some rich citizens have already left. In recent years, the actress and model Laetitia Casta, the chef Alain Ducasse and the singer and actor Johnny Hallyday all moved away to avoid high taxes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JULIEN M. HEKIMIAN/GETTY IMAGES
ERIC GAILLARD/REUTERS
YURI KADOBNOV/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) (B2) CHARTS: Big Range of Top Margins: The top individual income tax rate varies widely among countries. If France raises its top rate to 75 percent, it will surpass Sweden, which has long had the top rate. (Source: KPMG) (B1)
 Wealthy French May Pay More: President Franois Hollande has proposed a 75 percent tax on income over 1 million euros. Under current tax laws, two hypothetical couples with two children each and comparable annual incomes, as expressed in euros, would have more take-home pay in New York City than in France. Under the Hollande proposal, the French couple's take-home pay would be considerably lower. (Source: Steve Horton, Horton Tax Services) (B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); EURO (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAX LAW (78%); LAWYERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) FRANCE (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWEDEN (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2012



277 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Fifth Down)

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; football

LENGTH: 2923 words

HEADLINE: Buffalo Bills, 2012 N.F.L. Season Preview

BYLINE: ANDY BENOIT


HIGHLIGHT: This will be a telling year for the Bills. We'll find out if they can win with a crafty scheme but limited quarterback. 

 BODY:
Over the years, many analysts - including yours truly - have succumbed to the temptation of overthinking the Buffalo Bills.
We've all wanted to solve the mystery of why this once-proud franchise has failed to reach the postseason each of the past 12 years. Our sleuthing has generally morphed us into armchair economists. We've broken down the impact of playing in a small market. We've tried to extrapolate deep meaning from the Bills' annual Toronto venture. We've even gone meteorological, attributing some of this team's perils to the supposedly dreadful weather in Buffalo.
It's foolish to make something that's easy hard. The Bills aren't a mystery.
They've missed the postseason 12 straight years because they've lacked talent. Nothing more. They seemed to survive their "small market" just fine when they were reaching Super Bowls in the 1990s. Some say that the market and the weather haven't made Buffalo a "natural landing spot" for free agents, but if there were such a thing as natural landing spots, then wouldn't Seattle, Green Bay, Minnesota, Cleveland, Cincinnati, Pittsburgh and Oakland all have problems? And wouldn't teams from the supposedly desirable cities like Phoenix, San Diego, Miami, New Orleans, Atlanta and Dallas be cleaning up continually in free agency Miami Heat style?
The Bills haven't won because they haven't gathered enough talent. We can have a discussion about who is to blame for this (the owner Ralph Wilson? Management? Coaching staff?). But what good does backtracking over the past decade do for painting a picture of the 2012 Bills? This team is entering its third year under the leadership of General Manager Buddy Nix and Coach Chan Gailey. Though these two did not ignite the organization into a contender overnight, they have done a stellar job in getting things on the right track. Nix has drafted relatively well and, this past off-season, he roped in the biggest defensive free agent on the market, defensive end Mario Williams. (It's amazing how much more desirable a city and its weather can be when there's $50 million guaranteed involved.)
OFFENSE
Last season, quarterback Ryan Fitzpatrick, playing in a spread offense that Chan Gailey and the coordinator Curtis Modkins tailored for him, posted 14 touchdowns and a passer rating of 97.8 in leading the Bills to a 5-2 start. Wanting to get the 29-year-old Fitzpatrick locked up before his value climbed even further, the Bills signed him to a seven-year, $62 million contract extension ($24 million guaranteed). What followed, of course, was a 1-8 faceplant.
Most likely, Fitzpatrick did not get content after his big deal - he just got figured out and exposed. Call it the Tommy Maddox syndrome. Often, mid-level quarterbacks who find themselves in the right scheme will flourish early on. Teams will study them more closely and eventually solve the scheme. No coach in the history of football has ever concocted a scheme that befuddled an entire league for years and years.
Fitzpatrick simply does not appear to have the talent to be an elite quarterback. His arm strength is just O.K. His accuracy runs hot and cold. Because he mixes these traits with a gunslinger's mentality, he can be somewhat prone to mistakes. The Bills are hoping that extensive off-season work with the new quarterbacks coach David Lee will smooth some of Fitzpatrick's flaws. (Being from Harvard and spending the bulk of his early career as a fringe backup, Fitzpatrick had never had anyone diligently work on his mechanics before.) Perhaps it can help, but at the pro level, players generally are what they are (case in point: the newly signed backup Vince Young has reportedly struggled to learn Buffalo's offense and will most likely fail to supplant Tyler Thigpen).
A coach can only work with the players he has. Give Gailey credit for recognizing what Fitzpatrick truly is and adapting his offense accordingly. Gailey could have built a conservative system that minimized his quarterback's impact, but he realized that Fitzpatrick's limitations do not extend to the mental side of the game. Unlike most so-so-armed passers, Fitzpatrick reads the field fairly well. Because he tends to play fast when his pocket quivers, he is better reading things before the snap than after the snap. So, Gailey built a horizontal spread offense. A horizontal spread often involves quick-strike decisions off three- and five-step drops, which means the quarterback can often determine where the ball goes before the snap.
This type of quick-strike system can help mitigate the effect of defenses figuring out how to exploit Fitzpatrick's limitations. But Fitzpatrick isn't the only limited player. A big reason Buffalo got figured out last season was their wide receiving group wasn't very good. It still isn't.
No. 1 receiver Stevie Johnson can play, but even he has distinct shortcomings (he was drafted in the seventh round for a reason). Johnson is not particularly fast and he offers only "deceptive quickness." That's at least better than "no quickness," especially since it comes from fine-tuned mechanics and feints (i.e. attributes that can be learned and augmented). Still, Johnson is a top receiving option who does not command constant double teams, which is tough on a passing game.
The Bills tried to upgrade at receiver by pursuing Robert Meachem in free agency, but he ultimately signed with San Diego (hey, maybe the weather does impact some free agents after all ., maybe a proven offensive system like Norv Turner's and a cannon-armed quarterback like Philip Rivers are good lures). The pursuit of Meachem may have rubbed Donald Jones the wrong way, but more important than Jones getting over hurt feelings is his bouncing back from the severe ankle injury he suffered last November.
Third-round rookie T.J. Graham figures to challenge for Jones's starting spot. At 5-11 and 180, it's easy to view Graham as a slot contender. However, the Bills like to align bigger bodies inside, which is why guys like third-year pro Marcus Easley (6-3, 216), journeyman Derek Hagan (6-2, 217), sinewy David Nelson (6-5, 210) and special teamer Ruvell Martin (6-4, 220) are on the roster. The Bills are committed to having big guys inside; when 5-11 running back C.J. Spiller lined up at wide receiver last season, he was usually kept outside, even though that was a much tougher transition than playing the slot.
Of course, part of the reason Buffalo kept Spiller wide was they love to throw him bubble screens. With all of the above receivers lacking acceleration and quickness, Spiller's explosive burst and agility can be like a gulp of ice water to this otherwise dehydrated passing attack. He still has a lot to learn about playing wide receiver, though, and he may get fewer reps at that spot given the improvements he showed in pressing the hole and letting inside blocks develop as a ballcarrier last year.
Then again, the Bills can keep Spiller wide as long as Fred Jackson is healthy. Though Buffalo started to shrivel before Jackson's season-ending fractured fibula last November, there's no arguing that the Pro Bowl caliber veteran is a key to this offense. Not only is he a proficient inside and outside runner, but he's also adept as a pass blocker and dangerous in the short passing game. It's rare to see a team give a three-year contract to a 31-year-old running back, but at $10.75 million, the Bills got an absolute steal.
Though not regarded as fast, Jackson brings value because he handles the ball well out of a single-back set. Spiller does, too. This gives Buffalo's spread offense a running dimension, which is vital considering the mediocrity of the wide receivers. The Bills could get even more dimension to their spreads by making Brad Smith a full-time slot weapon, but for whatever reason, they seem bent on grooming him into a Wildcat specialist.
Another reason the Bills go with the spread is they have an offensive line that is rich in agility but poor in power. Joe D'Alessandris does a great job coaching this unit. Injuries have been a problem, players have been new to their positions, and sheer ability has been scarce in some spots. Yet the Bills' front five was phenomenal at times last season in recognizing complicated pass protection assignments and playing as a unit. But going back to the idea that talent ultimately counts, it must be noted that this line also floundered in a few games.
Buddy Nix identified left tackle as a problem area this past offseason (that wasn't hard to spot). To fix it, he gambled by spending a second-round pick on Georgia's Cordy Glenn. The 6-6, 343-pounder has obvious upside, but he spent the vast majority of his collegiate career at guard. The plan is to keep agile '09 second-rounder Andy Levitre at the top guard spot. And the Bills would rather fill the right guard position with Kraig Urbik. Unless Glenn self-destructs, he'll be groomed for the long haul at left tackle. The hope is he can supplant last year's heavy-footed fourth-round pick, Chris Hairston, right away.
If Urbik struggles as he did in Pittsburgh, the serviceable run-blocker Chad Rinehart could find himself back with the first unit. Rinehart doesn't have great natural ability - which may be why the Bills used a sixth round pick on Mark Asper - but he survived well enough as run-blocker when Urbik had to fill in at center after Eric Wood tore an A.C.L. last November. The hope is that Wood can fully recover from a serious injury for the second time in his four-year career (you may recall the horrific compound leg fracture he suffered in 2009). The question is, Can Wood recoup the mobility that makes him so critical in this space-oriented blocking scheme?
Rounding out the offensive line is the unsung overachieving right tackle Erik Pears, who must guard his job from Zebrie Sanders, a versatile fifth-round rookie who showed a good football IQ and natural talent at Florida State. Sanders dropped in the draft because of alarming bouts of inconsistency. Because he played the left and right side in college, he could serve as a utility tackle (though Hairston has the early lead for that role). The Bills aren't big on employing six-man lines, though, and would probably be more inclined to use the 270-pound tight ends Scott Chandler and Lee Smith for blocking reinforcements.
DEFENSE
Fifty million dollars guaranteed was too much to spend on Mario Williams, especially given that the seventh-year pro has battled injuries for much of the past two years. But it's easy to see why the Bills splurged. An impotent pass rush was by far the leading reason this defense ranked 30th in scoring and 26th in yards allowed last season. The Bills spent a lot of time in their dime package, where then-coordinator George Edwards ostensibly preferred to get pressure from a natural four-man rush rather than blitz.
Edwards was let go after the season. Linebackers coach Dave Wannstedt - you may remember him from when he sat on the proverbial hot seat as the head coach in Chicago and Miami - was promoted to coordinator and immediately declared the Bills a 4-3 defense. They've changed to a 4-3 defense several times in recent years .usually shortly before or shortly after changing to a 3-4. The hope is that the schematic vacillation will cease under Wannstedt.
Mario Williams's arrival should help foster schematic stability. Though he himself transitioned to a quasi outside linebacker in Houston's 3-4 last year, he is as natural a 4-3 end as there ever was. Not only is he capable of turning the corner on passing downs, but he's also a staunch playside anchor against the run. In recent years, poor run defense in the trenches has often been the propelling force behind Buffalo's schematic flip-flopping.
Williams isn't the only free agent end coming aboard. The Bills spent $8 million guaranteed in a four-year, $19.5 million deal to get Mark Anderson. He's a speed-rushing specialist coming off a 10-sack campaign with the Patriots (his first double-digit sack season since his '06 rookie year with the Bears). There will probably be plenty of optimism about Anderson's ability to play the run, but anyone with access to 2007-10 film knows better. The Bills have a serviceable veteran in Chris Kelsay who can play on running downs. They can also experiment with 2010 third-round defensive tackle Alex Carrington or Spencer Johnson, a fairly nimble veteran who is experienced at operating in traffic.
Whatever the Bills do with Anderson, the focus must be on maximizing his pass-rushing prowess. They don't have much in the way of other resources outside, as Shawne Merriman is a shell of his former self and third-year linebacker Arthur Moats, who has at times been used as a pass-rushing specialist, is still a work in progress.
The remodeled defensive end position makes it easy to overlook this front four's encouraging prospects inside. For the most part, last year's No. 3 overall pick, Marcell Dareus, has lived up to the hype. Dareus can create congestion as a nose tackle or get penetration as a three-technique. He has uncommon body control and fluidity for a man of his size and should only get better with experience. That's frightening for opponents, considering that the veteran next to him, Kyle Williams, offers a similarly diverse tableau of skills. Williams, who was medically cleared in June from his 2011 season-ending foot injury, doesn't have Dareus's raw talent, but he compensates with tenacity and wisdom. It will be tough for Dwan Edwards or massive third-year pro Torell Troup to snag a lot of snaps from this duo.
The worst part about Buffalo's poor pass rush was that it nullified what turned out to be a pretty decent secondary. It was a secondary that wasn't good enough to regularly play man coverage across the board, however. The hope is this will change with veteran cornerback Drayton Florence being replaced by first-round rookie Stephon Gilmore. The speedy South Carolina Gamecock will start immediately; many scouts believe he's already refined in two areas in which most rookie corners struggle: zone coverage and run defense.
Gilmore is more comfortable in off-coverage, so he may not play a lot of press technique. Rangy free safety Jairus Byrd will be more inclined to cheat to his side, as the other starting corner, 2011 second-round pick Aaron Williams, comfortable playing press. The Bills showed a lot of faith in Williams down the stretch last season, even letting him defend Santonio Holmes with no help.
Williams can play the slot, but that figures to be a better long-term home for playmaking veteran Terrence McGee. Injuries are a concern with the 31-year-old McGee, though. He missed 10 games last season, seven the year before and five the year before that.
Depth at corner isn't supposed to be an issue given that the Bills spent a first-round pick on Leodis McKelvin in 2008. However, McKelvin's tendency for giving up big plays landed him on the pine last year, playing behind the vulnerable seventh-rounder Justin Rogers. The Bills would presumably love for this year's fourth-round pick, Ron Brooks, to beat out both McKelvin and Rogers.
Linebacker is the soft spot on this defense, which is why it wouldn't be surprising to see Wannstedt copy predecessor George Edwards and play dime instead of nickel on passing downs. That would bring safety Bryan Scott on the field and take one of the linebackers off. Scott, who years ago lost some confidence after suffering a concussion, has regained a hold of his career as a specialty passing-down linebacker. He can't rest on his laurels, though, because 2011 fourth-round pick Da'Norris Searcy got some valuable experience filling in for injured veteran George Wilson last November. Wilson, by the way, is one of the more underrated players in the game. He's not fast, but he's heady in the box and has a knack for getting around the ball.
As for the men making up this iffy linebacking unit: veteran Nick Barnett doesn't quite play as fast as he used to, but he's still serviceable on the strong side. He'll be challenged by Arthur Moats, especially in the nickel package. Weakside man Kirk Morrison figures to struggle simply because, well, he has struggled for years now. Don't' be surprised if rookies Nigel Bradham or Tank Carder push him out. In the middle, second-year pro Kelvin Sheppard has a feel for attacking downhill, but a lack of flexibility in space may force him to the bench on third down.
SPECIAL TEAMS
The Bills have long had one of football's surest veteran kicking duos in Rian Lindell and punter Brian Moorman. There are rumblings that Moorman could be challenged by undrafted rookie Shawn Powell, which seems odd considering the two-time Pro Bowler averaged a career-high 48.2 yards per boot last season. But raw numbers aren't everything with punting. In the return game, it's weapons galore, as Justin Rogers, Brad Smith, C.J. Spiller, Leodis McKelvin and Terrence McGee have all been big playmakers.
BOTTOM LINE
This will be a telling year for the Bills. We'll find out if they can truly win with a crafty scheme but limited quarterback. The defense should improve now that the front four has teeth, but a lot of young players will once again be adjusting to a new scheme.
Prediction: 2nd A.F.C. East
Follow @Andy_Benoit
e-mail andy.benoit@nfltouchdown.com

        
Mario Williams to the Bills? Fans Worry, Then Rejoice
        
For a Bills Fan, All Hope Is Lost
        
As the Patriots Reel, the Jets Look as if They're for Real
        
On Any Given Sunday, a 20-Point Lead Might Not Be Enough
        
For Bills Fans, Now More Than a Glimmer of Hope

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); ATHLETES (84%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (69%) Buffalo Bills; Football

ORGANIZATION: BUFFALO BILLS (94%); MIAMI HEAT (54%) Buffalo Bills

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (70%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



278 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
NPR: Great wine needs bugs: Italian scientists document the role of wasps and hornets in the fermentation of grapes. -- Eric Asimov 
Food52: This cooking site takes on Serious Eats in an ambitious, awe-inspiring, possibly ill-advised Cherpumple-Off, in which each side makes three pies, bakes them into cakes, stacks the cakes, ices and serves. A play-by-play, with photos. -- Emily Weinstein
: Fifty-three high-profile chefs highlight the "101 Best Places to Eat" around the world. Eric Ripert chooses Chef's Table at Brooklyn Fare, Alain Ducasse picks Franny's in Brooklyn and Guy Savoy in Paris; Gabrielle Hamilton chooses Daniel and Kafana; Daniel Humm picks Parm -- and David Bouley selects La Bigarrade in Paris. -- Glenn Collins 
The New York Post: The mojito has lost its mojo among bartenders, who revile the cocktail as labor-intensive, well past its prime, and all too sure to be ordered en masse by insecure drinkers. -- Patrick Farrell
The Jewish Daily Forward: Hummus: a taste test. -- Jeff Gordinier 
: The journalist Annia Ciezadlo on "the holy trinity of Beirut street food: the farran, or baker; the lahham, or butcher; and the fawwal, or maker of foul, which is stewed chickpeas and fava beans." The magazine published this piece last week to coincide with the British publication of "House of Stone" by Anthony Shadid, the Lebanese-American New York Times reporter who died while reporting from Syria in February. -- Julia Moskin 
: Restaurants, fear not the corkage! Evan Dawson talks sense on bringing your own bottle. -- Eric Asimov
The Atlantic: Trader Joe's: Affordable, environmentally conscious friend of the consumer or elitist exploiter of labor? Well, according to this piece, both. -- Patrick Farrell 
: Then there was Julia Child's 1992 monthlong tour of Italy. Those motorcycle jaunts in the countryside. The sauces she didn't much like. And uninhibited eating, and uninvited kitchen inspections. Most Italian chefs didn't know who she was, so the 6-foot-2-inch interloper angered many of them when she invaded their kitchens and tasted their sauce with her fingers. From the new Bob Spitz book, "The Remarkable Life of Julia Child." -- Glenn Collins
: Apparently, the message received from Chick-fil-A's stand on gay marriage: chain restaurants should be political, not less. Papa John's CEO has come out against the Obama health care plan, saying it will make pizza more expensive. -- Julia Moskin 
The Wall Street Journal: Despite recent reports that H & H Bagels is close to reopening in Lower Manhattan, a battle still rages over rights to the name. -- Patrick Farrell
U.S. News and World Report: Higher commodity-food prices are already trickling down to restaurants from the great drought, but restaurateurs are reluctant to raise prices in the down economy and are squeezing beverage, food and production costs to make up the difference. -- Glenn Collins 
The Huffington Post: Those other wines of Germany: Mary Orlin tours the wines of Franken, immediately identifiable by the distinctively bulbous bocksbeutel, or bottle. -- Eric Asimov 
Time Out New York: Sweet corn tumbles out of the greenmarkets and onto menus -- as in the corn ice cream pie at Momofuku Ssm Bar, the sweetbreads at Empelln Cocina, and more. -- Patrick Farrell 
Chicago Reader: Corn smut: It's probably not what's for dessert. -- Jeff Gordinier

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); WRITERS (71%); JOURNALISM (71%); MARRIAGE (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%)

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (60%); TRADER JOE'S CO (53%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); SYRIA (79%); LEBANON (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



279 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: Olympic Bankruptcies for Ordinary Families

BYLINE: HELAINE OLEN


HIGHLIGHT: The families of two extraordinary Olympic athletes are struggling with very ordinary financial woes. 

 BODY:
"I'm not even embarrassed."
With that forthright acknowledgement of her financially precarious state when asked by reporters about her recent bankruptcy filing, Natalie Hawkins, the mother of the Olympic gold medal winner Gabby Douglas, might have done as much for people suffering from the economic tsunami of the last several years as her daughter has accomplished for the sport of gymnastics.
Ms. Hawkins, who said she filed for bankruptcy to protect her ownership of her Virginia home, is not the only parent of a star Olympian in severe financial straits. The mother and father of the swimmer Ryan Lochte are also in arrears. They ceased paying the mortgage on their Florida home in 2011, and are now being sued by the banking company that holds their loan.
While a few personal finance reporters have rushed in to point out that training a child for the Olympics is quite expensive, those expenditures are unlikely to be the cause of either family's money woes. Ms. Hawkins's bankruptcy filing revealed the single mother was raising her family of four children on about $30,000 annually, most of which came from Social Security medical disability benefits and child support payments from her soon-to-be ex-husband. You probably don't need me to tell you that this amount of money is not going to go far in supporting a household full of children, even without gymnastics lessons. Not surprisingly, there is no evidence of licentious living, unless you count a $408 orthodontia bill for the future gymnastics star as a luxury item.
If anything, it is likely other mothers and fathers of Olympians are in similar circumstances as Ms. Hawkins and the Lochtes, and we just don't know it. According to the Federal Reserve, the median household net worth fell by 40 percent from 2007 to 2010. For African-American families, like Ms. Hawkins's, the numbers were far worse, with CNNMoney, which performed an extensive analysis, asserting those families lost 60 percent of their total net worth during the same period.
There is much personal pain behind those rather dry sounding statistics. According to research, the biggest predictor of bankruptcy is not overspending, but medical woes and unemployment, two factors clearly present in the Hawkins/Douglas household. At least one was also a factor in the Lochte situation. "I just got divorced and I had lost my job," Ileana Lochte told USA Today, by way of explaining her financial distress. And if you are wondering, research performed by Elizabeth Warren several years ago revealed divorced single mothers have a much higher risk of bankruptcy than anyone else.
Yet despite years of living through the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression, the vast majority of us remain reluctant to acknowledge our financial struggles publicly. The shame is immense. The revelations of economic trouble in the households of these star athletes is an "Olympic parents - they're just like us!" moment. Bankruptcy hits everywhere, and for many reasons. Often that shame is misplaced. Americans, perhaps more so than other cultures, tend to believe all fiscal failure is their own fault.
Almost nothing seems capable of shaking this belief. Not the recent revelation that just under half of Americans die with nothing in the way of assets and not the fact that the majority of Americans approaching the end of their working days have less than $30,000 in their retirement accounts. Perhaps, as the real impact of the last decade becomes unavoidable for more families, we will at least begin to talk about it.

        
Olympic Parents: Who Sacrifices (or Is Sacrificed) for Gold?
        
Does It Take a Tiger Mom to Raise an Olympian?
        
Mothers of Children With Autism Earn Less
        
In Defense of Boomerang Kids
        
The $180,000 Nanny: Worth Every Penny?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); OLYMPICS (92%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); FAMILY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); SINGLE PARENTS (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ATHLETES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); RECESSION (77%); PARENTING (73%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (72%); LUXURY GOODS (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); CHILD CARE (67%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (62%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%) child care costs; Economy; Gabby Douglas parents; Natalie Hawkins bankruptcy; olympics; Ryan lochte bankruptcy; Douglas, Gabby; Lochte, Ryan; Bankruptcies; Families and Family Life; Parenting; Recession and Depression; United States Economy

PERSON: Douglas, Gabby; Lochte, Ryan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



280 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Does Europe's Arrogance Blind it to Asia?

BYLINE: DIDI KIRSTEN TATLOW


HIGHLIGHT: What do Asians and Europeans have in common apart from a shared love of soccer. Well, a lot of history for a start, and plenty of scope to learn from each other. But is an inward-looking Europe missing out by sticking with outdated attitudes? 

 BODY:
Living standards are rising for many in booming Asia even as they fall for many in debt-struck Europe. In this time of shifting fortunes, how do the two continents view each other? 
As Tommy Koh, Singapore's Ambassador-at-Large, asked bluntly in a speech in May in Singapore: "Do Asians and Europeans understand each other?" 
No, said Mr. Koh, placing the blame on Europe's shoulders. Europeans, said Mr. Koh, suffer from arrogance. 
In my column this week, I look at the Asian-European relationship through the prism of soccer, a sport with which people in both continent's share a love affair. The wider relationship, however, remains problematic.
"The problem is that Europe sees itself as a 'normative power,' as a region which sets the universal norm," said Mr. Koh in a speech marking the 15th anniversary of the Asia-Europe Foundation. The foundation is part of the Asia-Europe Meeting, a 46-nation grouping of European and Asian nations, the European Commission and the Secretariat of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. It aims to further ties between Asia and Europe. 
"This role often makes Europe a very poor interlocutor because its mission is not to appreciate alternative views but to impose its view on the world," said Mr. Koh.
Europe also lacked the political leadership to engage more deeply in Asia, he said.
"We do not have, on the European side, political leaders who have a personal interest in and understanding of Asia," said Mr. Koh. Leaders of global stature such as former German Chancellor Helmut Kohl or former French President Valery Giscard d'Estaing were lacking. 
He contrasted European leaders' lack of engagement with the dynamic region to that of President Obama, who had made Asia a priority in relations.
As a result, the Asia-Europe relationship was far weaker than that between Asia and the United States, said Mr. Koh.
"The relationship is transactional and lacks warmth," he said in comments that can be viewed here.
In a telephone interview from Singapore, Ronan Lenihan, a project executive at the foundation, said Europe's current debt crisis and other structural issues were absorbing the continent's attention.
"A lot comes down to the fact that there is this 'internal look'" in Europe now, he said. Europe was lurching through crises and looking inwards.
Yet overall, Asia, parts of which were once ruled by European colonists, have "traditionally" known more about Europe than the other way round, said Mr. Lenihan. Mr. Koh thought so too.
"Asia has been learning from Europe for centuries," said Mr. Koh at the meeting, according to a text of the speech.
"Asians continue to want to learn from Europe. For example, thousands of Asian students go to Europe each year for their tertiary education. Thousands more study at the Asian campuses of European universities. I wonder if the day will ever come when Europe will be humble enough to want to learn from Asia," he said, singling out the continent's experience in dealing with multiculturalism, a challenge facing Europe.
He had heard three European leaders declare that multiculturalism was "a failure," he said.
"I wish that their advisers had suggested that they should visit Southeast Asia to see how other countries have made a success of multiculturalism," said Mr. Koh.
Yet despite Mr. Koh's tough verdict, Europe can take some heart from its image in Asia, according to a March survey by the foundation of over 7,000 Asians from seven nations - China, India, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand. 
The survey, which focused on the European Union, found the E.U.'s image was best in India, Thailand and South Korea, rising to around 70 percent approval ratings, and worst in China and Singapore, where around 15 percent of respondents believed the E.U. was negative, with many saying they were "neither positive nor negative."
Thirty-seven percent of respondents said the E.U was "likeable" while a high 50 percent were "not sure." Thirteen percent said the E.U. was "not likeable."
Twenty-one percent viewed the EU as "aggressive" and 26 percent said it was not (53 percent were "unsure,") while 24 percent said it was "arrogant" and 22 percent disagreed. 
Above all, the E.U. was viewed as "modern," with 61 percent agreeing, just seven percent disagreeing and a relatively low, 32 percent, "not sure."
It may come as a shock to Europeans fed up with tales of disagreement at the top over how to handle the debt crisis that a high percentage of Asian respondents viewed the E.U. as "united" and "efficient" - 34 and 40 percent, respectively. 

        
In an Ailing Continent, It's Staycation Time for Europe's Politicians
        
Europe and Obama
        
'Kidnapped' TV Crew Apparently Wasn't
        
First Relief, Then Skepticism After Greece Votes
        
Decision Day for Greece and the Euro

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EURO CRISIS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (75%); LIVING STANDARDS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%) Asia; europe; far east; Southeast Asia; tommy koh; European Union; Europe; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Page Two

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (55%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%) European Union

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); ASIA (99%); SINGAPORE (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%) Europe; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



281 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Obama Travels to Colorado With Appeal to Women

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: Women's issues and wind energy will join middle-class tax cuts as part of President Obama's platform on Wednesday and Thursday as he campaigns in Colorado, a swing state where a new poll underscored his vulnerability to voters' doubts about the economy. 

 BODY:
Women's issues and wind energy will join middle-class tax cuts as part of President Obama's platform on Wednesday and Thursday as he campaigns yet again in Colorado, a vital swing state where a new poll underscored his vulnerability to voters' doubts about the economy.
In the first of four stops, Mr. Obama will be introduced on Wednesday afternoon in Denver by Sandra Fluke, the Georgetown Law School graduate who earlier this yearbecame the face of women's reproductive rights after Congressional Republicans blocked her from testifying about insurance coverage of contraception. Rush Limbaugh, the conservative radio personality, later referred to her as a prostitute; he apologized after a furor caused some corporate sponsors to defect from his program.
Mr. Obama's emphasis on reproductive rights suggests an effort to solidify his backing among women, who are the mainstay of his support and offset his weakness among white males. In Colorado, his lead over the presumptive Republican nominee, Mitt Romney, among women is not as wide as it is nationally and in other swing states, according to a new poll for Quinnipiac University/New York Times/CBS News, accounting for Mr. Romney's narrow edge among likely Colorado voters over all.
The Obama campaign has recently run ads in the state criticizing Mr. Romney's stands on women's issues, including video clips in which Mr. Romney vows to end public support for Planned Parenthood. Like much of Mr. Obama's strategy in Colorado, the overt pitch to women borrows from the 2010 campaign playbook of Senator Michael F. Bennet, a Democrat who will appear with the president. In an otherwise dismal year for Democrats, Mr. Bennet was elected on support from women and Latinos alienated by Republican positions on contraceptive rights and immigration.
From Denver, Mr. Obama will fly west to Grand Junction on Wednesday evening and then campaign in Pueblo on Thursday, drawing attention in each place to his support for - and Mr. Romney's opposition to - renewing federal tax credits to encourage wind energy.
Colorado has become a leader in harnessing wind energy, and the tax incentives have bipartisan support in the state. Recent media coverage has not been kind to Mr. Romney, noting that he supports oil and gas subsidies even as he attacks the wind energy credits as part of what he calls Mr. Obama's costly obsession with "green jobs." A column this week in The Denver Post began, "Is Romney trying to blow it?"
At each stop, including the last, at Colorado College in Colorado Springs, Mr. Obama also will continue the assault against Mr. Romney's tax cut plans that he mounted last week in two other battleground states, Ohio and Florida. The basis of his attack is a nonpartisan study that concludes that Mr. Romney's proposals would inevitably mean big reductions in income tax for the wealthiest Americans and increases for the other 95 percent. 
Colorado is now considered a tossup state, one the president is struggling to win after he carried it comfortably in 2008, as the new poll indicated. Mr. Obama trails in the state by five percentage points, the survey found, with 50 percent of likely voters favoring Mr. Romney and 45 percent supporting Mr. Obama.
"I think we're doing fine in Colorado, but it's a battleground state for a reason," said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's longtime strategist.
The president's weakness in Colorado mirrors the continued weakness of the economic recovery. By 10 percentage points - 51 percent to 41 percent - likely voters in the state said Mr. Romney would do a better job of handling the economy, according to the poll. And 43 percent said their own finances would be hurt by Mr. Obama's re-election - nearly twice the 22 percent who say their personal finances would be helped if he won. State voters split on whether Mr. Romney's election would hurt or help them personally. 
About 4 in 10 likely voters say the economy is getting worse, and voters split over whether Mr. Obama's policies will eventually help the economy improve.
The poll had another worrisome snapshot for Mr. Obama. While he is buoyed nationally and in many swing states by his greater favorability ratings among voters, that is not the case in Colorado: 50 percent of likely voters say they have an unfavorable view of the president and 46 percent have a favorable view. For Mr. Romney 47 percent hold a favorable view of him and 42 percent an unfavorable view. 
Other results, more helpful to Mr. Obama, explain the closeness of the race. More voters say Mr. Obama better understands their problems. Many say Mr. Romney cared more for investor profits than jobs in his business career. And 6 in 10 agree with Mr. Obama that wealthier Americans should pay more income taxes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WOMEN (93%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WIND ENERGY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (75%); CONTRACEPTION (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); SPONSORSHIP (70%); IMMIGRATION (50%) Bennet, Michael Farrand; Fluke, Sandra; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Birth Control and Family Planning; Income Tax; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012; Wind Power; Women's Rights; Colorado College; Democratic Party; Denver Post; Georgetown University; Planned Parenthood Federation of America; University of Colorado; Colorado; Colorado Springs (Colo); Denver (Colo); The Caucus

COMPANY: DENVER POST CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (84%); PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (82%) Colorado College; Democratic Party; Denver Post; Georgetown University; Planned Parenthood Federation of America; University of Colorado

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MICHAEL BENNET (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (54%) Bennet, Michael Farrand; Fluke, Sandra; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (90%); PUEBLO, CO, USA (79%); GRAND JUNCTION, CO, USA (58%) COLORADO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Colorado; Colorado Springs (Colo); Denver (Colo)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012



282 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: Wednesday Reading: Airline's Bag Delivery Service Lets You Skip the Carousel

BYLINE: TARA SIEGEL BERNARD


HIGHLIGHT: American Airlines' bag delivery lets you skip the carousel, Starbucks customers will eventually be able to pay by saying their name, Mitt Romney's job growth promises and other consumer-focused news from today's Times. 

 BODY:

        
Top floors of New York's Woolworth Building to be remade as luxury apartments. (Real Estate)
        
Romney presses Obama on taking work requirement out of welfare law. (National)
        
Polls find mixed views on stricter . (National)
        
Starbucks customers will eventually be able to pay by saying their name. (Business)
        
Accusations against Standard Charter on Iran deals surprised federal regulators. (Business)
        
Federal judge grudgingly approves Morgan Stanley price-fixing settlement. (Business)
        
Pfizer settles charges of bribing doctors abroad. (Business)
        
"Les Riches" in France vow to leave if 75 percent tax rate is passed. (Business)
        
Corporate fraud cases often spare individuals. (Business)
        
Palates, like children, grow. (Dining)
        
Should a wine list educate or merely flatter? (Dining)
        
Romney's job growth promises. (Economix)
        
Craigslist's challenger could be an app, or several. (Bits)
        
An iPhone case with a focus on photos. (Gadgetwise)
        
Looking for fitness in a glass of juice. (Well)
        
Pregnant, depressed and surprised. (Motherlode)
        
American Airlines' bag delivery lets you skip the carousel. (In Transit)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); PRICE FIXING (76%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (70%) Today in Your Money

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); CRAIGSLIST INC (56%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (57%); PFEB (BRU) (57%); PFE (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (71%); FRANCE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



283 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1806 words

HEADLINE: How Romney's Pick of a Running Mate Could Sway the Outcome

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Some of Mitt Romney's potential running mates are far more likely to help him win their home states than others. But how often would that change the Electoral College total in November? 

 BODY:
We haven't had that much to say about Mitt Romney's choice of a vice-presidential nominee - mostly because it just isn't something that lends itself to rigorous analysis.
But let's focus on the part of the problem where our tools - particularly, the simulation program that runs the FiveThirtyEight presidential forecast - come in handy. Whatever else they do or do not accomplish for Mr. Romney, his potential running mates could improve his standing in their home states, potentially changing the outcome there. 
Mr. Romney should not expect any miracles from his choice of a running mate. Historically, they have gained their ticket a net of two percentage points, give or take, in their home states. 
How much of a difference could two points make in a state like Florida? And how much would this affect the overall electoral calculus? The simulation program can measure these effects.
Perhaps, however, we have gotten ahead of ourselves. The effect of the vice-presidential nominee varies a bit from election to election and from candidate to candidate. So as a prerequisite, we should ask: which of Mr. Romney's potential running mates are actually popular back at home?
I looked up approval and favorability ratings for 14 of Mr. Romney's more plausible choices. This list includes most of the more commonly discussed names - plus a few other candidates who hail from swing states and whom I was curious about. For each candidate, I calculated an average positive and negative rating based on the home-state polls, with approving or favorable ratings from voters counting as positive marks, and disapproving or unfavorable ratings as negative ones. 
(Four candidates - Gov. Bob McDonnell of Virginia, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, and former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania - have been polled frequently enough that I used their numbers from this year alone. For the rest, the data was sparser, so I included all polls since the conclusion of the 2010 midterm election in the average. If a given polling firm tested a candidate's ratings multiple times during this period, I averaged the numbers across each of their surveys before placing them into the average with the rest of the polling firms, so as not to give any one pollster's method too large an impact.)
Here's some good news for Mr. Romney: in an era when many politicians are unpopular, a number of his potential choices are pretty well liked back at home.
Five candidates stood out as having especially strong positive ratings with their home-state voters. These were Mr. McDonnell of Virginia, along with Govs. Susana Martinez of New Mexico, Bobby Jindal of Louisiana and Brian Sandoval of Nevada, and Senator John Thune of South Dakota. The ratings for Mr. Christie and Mr. Rubio were also fairly strong.
Another of Mr. Romney's potential choices, Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, drew more mixed reactions. Although Mr. Ryan should win his home district, pollsters who tested his numbers throughout Wisconsin found more tenuous results, with 38 percent of voters giving him a positive rating and 33 percent a negative one.
Some candidates are relatively anonymous, even in their home states. Senator Rob Portman of Ohio did all right with voters who expressed an opinion about him, with 33 percent giving him a positive rating and 25 percent a negative one. But a plurality of voters in Ohio, 42 percent, either did not know Mr. Portman's name or felt so indifferently about him that they did not express an opinion.
Finally, there were two potential running mates who actually had net-negative ratings in their home states. These were Mr. Santorum, along with former Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, who ended his second term in 2010 being somewhat unpopular in his home state. Whatever other virtues these candidates have, helping Mr. Romney to carry their home states is unlikely to be one of them.
We can translate these positive and negative ratings into an estimate of the candidate's impact on the popular vote in his home state.
The average personal rating among the candidates was plus 13. We'll assume that a candidate with a plus 13 positive rating would improve Mr. Romney standing by two points in his state, the historical average impact of a vice-presidential candidate. If a candidate had a better or worse rating than that, we'll assume that her impact was proportionately larger or smaller.
For instance, Ms. Martinez had a net-positive rating of plus 27, about twice the average for all the candidates. So we'll assume that her home state impact is also twice as large - four points for Mr. Romney rather than two. The translations for the remaining candidates are shown in the table below. Mr. Rubio, for example, is estimated to improve Mr. Romney's standing in Florida by a net of 2.3 percentage points by this method.
But how often would those 2.3 percentage points change the outcome in Florida. And - perhaps more important - how often would changing the outcome in Florida change the winner of the Electoral College?
Let's begin with the first part of the question. On Wednesday morning, I ran 50,000 simulations from our forecasting program. I included the latest Quinnipiac University/New York Times/CBS News polls from Virginia, Colorado and Wisconsin in the simulation (they had not been available as of our previous forecast update), but otherwise this is the same program that we run every day to generate our Electoral College forecasts.
In the case of Mr. Rubio and Florida, adding a net of 2.3 percentage points to Mr. Romney's standing there won him the state 7,469 times (out of 50,000 simulations) when he otherwise would have lost it, or about 15 percent of the time. This was the third-highest figure, behind Mr. Sandoval of Nevada and Mr. McDonnell of Virginia.
Other candidates, despite being popular back home, were less likely to actually swing their states. Mr. Thune and Mr. Jindal, for instance, rarely won Mr. Romney South Dakota or Louisiana in the simulations - because Mr. Romney was already winning those states to begin with.
Mr. Christie, of New Jersey, did swing his state to Mr. Romney in about 5 percent of the simulations. But most of the time, Mr. Romney was just too far behind there to catch up, despite Mr. Christie's popularity.
What we're really interested in, however, is those cases in which the candidate not only won Mr. Romney the home state, but in so doing, also handed him the presidency.
So I scouted for simulations in which the vice-presidential candidate swung his state to Mr. Romney when Mr. Romney otherwise would have lost it - and, moreover, in which the extra electoral votes that Mr. Romney gained from this state were enough to win him the Electoral College when he did not win it originally.
In Mr. Rubio's case, for instance, this would mean simulations in which:
(a) Barack Obama originally won Florida, but by no more than 2.3 percentage points - the impact that we calculate that Mr. Rubio would have in aiding Mr. Romney there, and, 
(b) Mr. Obama originally won the Electoral College in the simulation, but with no more than 298 electoral votes - few enough that Mr. Obama losing Florida's 29 electoral votes would cost him his Electoral College majority.
For Mr. Rubio and Mr. Romney, these simulations came up 356 times out of 50,000 instances, or about 0.7 percent of the time. The interpretation of this is simply that, other things being equal, the choice of Mr. Rubio as his vice-presidential nominee would increase Mr. Romney's chances of winning the Electoral College by 0.7 percent, based on Mr. Rubio's home-state impact.
Other candidates swayed the outcome a bit more often. The top-ranking one was Mr. Portman of Ohio. 
Even though Mr. Portman is not all that well-known and not all that popular with voters back at home - we assume that he'd improve Mr. Romney's position in Ohio by about 1 percentage point - that single point could matter since Ohio is such a disproportionately important state. That extra point in Ohio changed the outcome of the Electoral College in 965 of the 50,000 simulations, or just less than 2 percent of the time.
Mr. McDonnell and Mr. Sandoval had a similar impact. They also improved Mr. Romney's chances of winning the Electoral College by about 2 percent in the program.
It's easy to see why Mr. McDonnell is so influential. Virginia is not quite as important as Ohio, but it's still very critical to the election and Mr. McDonnell is quite popular there.
Mr. Sandoval's potential impact is a bit less obvious. He's very popular too, but Nevada contains only 6 electoral votes.
The reason is that the vice-presidential effect is slightly asymmetrical. Since the running mate should have a positive impact on Mr. Romney's standing in the nominee's home state, what Mr. Romney would ideally want is a candidate from a state that was otherwise just a wee bit Democratic-leaning. In that case, the running made would have the fullest effect, potentially flipping a blue state to a red one.
This describes Nevada to a T. It's become a bit Democratic leaning, based on the polls there so far this year and its recent voting, but not by much. Mr. Sandoval could turn the state from slightly Democratic-leaning to slightly Republican-leaning, which is the optimal case for Mr. Romney.
There would not be quite that sort of impact in Florida. Mr. Romney actually trails there - very slightly - according to the current polls. Nevertheless, Florida is normally a bit Republican-leaning relative to the country as a whole, and Mr. Romney trails by larger margins in a number of other important states. If Mr. Romney can't win Florida on his own - without Mr. Rubio's help - things are probably fairly hopeless for him no matter what. 
Then again, even the top-ranking candidates only changed the Electoral College outcome 2 percent of the time, other things being equal. Is that really worth it to Mr. Romney?
Probably not if the candidate comes with other disadvantages, since vice-presidential nominees can fall flat when they venture beyond their home turf. Sarah Palin was extremely popular in Alaska when John McCain named her as his running mate in 2008, for instance, but something was lost in translation when she hit the national stage. Thus, the home-state effect is more a good tiebreaker between two otherwise-equal candidates than something that should govern Mr. Romney's decision. 
Still, the election is close enough that these marginal effects could matter - and an extra point for Mr. Romney in Ohio or Virginia would be awfully nice for him right now.

        
Readers See Obama Slightly Ahead, With Ohio Crucial for Romney
        
Aug. 1: Obama Extends Electoral College Advantage
        
Where Electoral Forecasts Agree and Disagree
        
Election Forecast: Obama Begins With Tenuous Advantage
        
What the New G.D.P. Figures Mean for the Election

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); MODELING & SIMULATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (88%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); STATISTICS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (65%) 2012; Electoral College; forecasting models; forecasts; Marco Rubio; mitt romney; Presidential Election of 2012; Rob Portman; running mate; vice president; Christie, Christopher J; Jindal, Bobby; Martinez, Susana; McDonnell, Robert F; Pawlenty, Tim; Portman, Rob; Romney, Mitt; Rubio, Marco; Ryan, Paul D Jr; Sandoval, Brian; Thune, John R; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US); Politics

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); PAUL RYAN (92%); MARCO RUBIO (89%); ROB PORTMAN (83%); JOHN THUNE (71%); SUSANA MARTINEZ (66%); BRIAN SANDOVAL (66%); TIM PAWLENTY (66%); BOBBY JINDAL (66%); RICK SANTORUM (58%) Christie, Christopher J; Jindal, Bobby; Martinez, Susana; McDonnell, Robert F; Pawlenty, Tim; Portman, Rob; Romney, Mitt; Rubio, Marco; Ryan, Paul D Jr; Sandoval, Brian; Thune, John R

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



284 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: The Breakfast Meeting: Obama on the News Media, and Madonna Speaks Out in Russia

BYLINE: NOAM COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: Also, the judge in the Google-Oracle case wants to know about payments to journalists, bloggers and commentators for favorable coverage; and Hollywood is building bridges to China. 

 BODY:
Barack Obama has more than a spectator's interest in how the news media does its job, Amy Chozick notes as she describes the president's typical news diet. Press coverage helped propel him to the national stage when he was a state legislator, and three and a half years into his presidential term he sees news coverage as frustrating his ambitions to change the tone of political debate. His most persistent complaint is what he calls the news media's belief in a "false balance," in which two opposing sides are given equal weight regardless of the facts. (A note of caution from Tom Rosenstiel, director of the Project for Excellence in Journalism: "I think we've learned through history to beware of presidents playing press critic. They're not press critics - they're people trying to advance a political agenda.")

        
Still, Mr. Obama is a voracious consumer of news, reading newspapers and magazines on his iPad and in print and dipping into blogs and Twitter. He is inclined to communicate via small sit-downs with columnists or beat reporters specializing in economics or foreign policy, or to niche Web sites. The one group he tends to shun is political reporters, whose coverage he often considers frivolous, Ms. Chozick writes.

        
The party planners for the Democratic National Convention next month in Charlotte, N.C., say they are concerned about their ability to book big musical acts for the event because of the timing of MTV's Video Music Awards, The Hollywood Reporter writes. The award show is set for Sept. 6, the Thursday when President Obama will deliver his acceptance speech at the convention, meaning many A-list acts will be tied up in Los Angeles. The network, The Reporter article says, will shift the show to 8-10 p.m. from its traditional 9-11 p.m. slot to avoid conflict with the convention's proceedings.
The federal judge who heard the Google-Oracle court case over copyright and patents on Tuesday ordered the companies to disclose the names of journalists, bloggers and other commentators who were on their payrolls, Reuters reports. The case, which was decided by a jury in San Francisco in Google's favor in May, hints "at the possibility of a hidden world of for-pay press coverage," Reuters writes. The judge, William Alsup, said the information, which is due Aug. 17, "would be of use on appeal" and could "make clear whether any treatise, article, commentary or analysis on the issues posed by this case are possibly influenced by financial relationships to the parties or counsel."
Madonna used her sold-out concert in Moscow to speak out for the three women from the feminist punk band Pussy Riot who on trial over an anti-Putin stunt they staged at the altar of a Russian Orthodox cathedral, David M. Herszenhorn writes. If convicted, the women could face seven years in prison. Madonna told the crowd: "I know there are many sides to every story, and I mean no disrespect to the church or the government. But I think that these three girls - Masha, Katya, Nadya - I think that they have done something courageous. I think they have paid the price for this act. And I pray for their freedom."
An ambitious cultural and entertainment district planned for Shanghai in 2016 will have DreamWorks Animation SKG, the Hollywood studio behind hits like "Shrek" and "Kung Fu Panda," working with a group of Chinese partners, David Barboza and Brooks Barnes write. The $3.1 billion project will also include Oriental DreamWorks, a new $350 million China-United States joint venture. Such projects offer American companies access to China's growing middle class, while strengthening China's media and cultural industries.

        
On Wednesday, the director James Cameron, introduced his joint venture with Chinese partners in Tianjin to bring his 3-D technologies - used famously in his global hit "Avatar" - to a high-technology industrial park there, Jonathan Landreth writes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (86%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); MUSIC (69%); JURY TRIALS (66%); JUDGES (66%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (65%); POP & ROCK (64%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (53%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (81%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (81%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MADONNA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (54%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (65%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



285 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Aug. 8: Colorado and Virginia Flip Places in Forecast

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney got one of his better polls in a long while on Wednesday, but the problem was that the rest of the day's data was mediocre for him. 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney got one of his better polls in a long while on Wednesday. The poll, in Colorado, was one of three state surveys conducted by The New York Times in conjunction with Quinnipiac University and CBS News. It gave Mr. Romney a five-point lead there, with 50 percent of the vote, to President Obama's 45 percent.
This is actually the first Colorado poll of the cycle to show Mr. Romney with a lead of any margin in the state. And a five-point lead, especially in a credible poll with a large sample size, is a big number to put up on the scoreboard.
Of course, Mr. Romney probably does not actually lead by five points in Colorado. Polls are subject to sampling error and other methodological choices, and other recent surveys of the state do not suggest such a favorable outcome for him. Our forecast had Mr. Romney narrowing his deficit in Colorado to 1.3 points from 2.8 points on the strength of the poll, with his winning chances increasing to 43 percent from 34 percent. Still, our forecast is designed to be rather conservative about weighing new data, so that's a pretty big move.
The problem is that the rest of Wednesday's data was mediocre for Mr. Romney. In Virginia, the New York Times/Quinnipiac University/CBS News survey had him trailing Mr. Obama by four points. Another survey, from the Republican-leaning firm Rasmussen Reports, put Mr. Obama two points ahead there.
The pair of Virginia polls offset Mr. Romney's strong showing in Colorado. Mr. Obama's chances of winning Virginia rose to 67 percent from 59 percent on the surveys, and his projected lead increased to 2.4 points from 1.3 points. Eagle-eyed readers will note that Mr. Romney's gain in Colorado was slightly larger than Mr. Obama's in Virginia - but Virginia contains 13 electoral votes to Colorado's 9, so it basically washes out.
Mr. Obama also got a pair of decent polls in Wisconsin - one putting him ahead by six points, another by five - but they had less impact on the forecast, since the data had already pointed toward Mr. Obama's holding a lead in Wisconsin by about that margin.
National polls released on Wednesday were slightly unfavorable to Mr. Romney. A week or two ago, we seemed to have a slight shift in national tracking polls toward Mr. Romney. But that seems to have reversed out now, with Mr. Obama's numbers in daily and weekly trackers a point or so stronger than they were last week. There was also a poll from Reuters/Ipsos, putting Mr. Obama seven points ahead in the national race, although that polling firm has typically shown good numbers for him.
Overall, all the new data didn't have much of an impact on the forecast. Mr. Obama's chances of winning the Electoral College rose nominally, to 72.5 percent from 72.0 percent on Tuesday.
What Mr. Romney needs is to have numbers like the Colorado survey more often. Yes, it was probably a bit of an outlier. But then again, some of the polls showing Mr. Obama with impressive numbers last week were probably outliers as well. (I wouldn't put much money on Mr. Obama's winning Florida by six points if the election were held tomorrow, for instance.)
Still, even outlying polls are distributed around a central tendency. If Mr. Romney held leads of two or three points in the most important swing states, instead of trailing by about that margin in many of them, we'd be seeing polls putting him up by five points in one of them a lot more often. In fact, we'd see numbers a bit better than that: the occasional poll putting him ahead by six points in Iowa, seven points in Ohio, eight points in Florida and so on.
But back to Colorado and Virginia. Is it really plausible that Virginia is actually the easier of the two states for Mr. Obama to win, as the most recent numbers suggest?
Both are often lumped together under the heading of wealthy, suburban, socially moderate but fiscally conservative states that flipped from red to blue in 2008. But their demographics and political cultures are reasonably different. Virginia has a lot more African-American voters, but fewer Hispanics. Colorado has a decent number of evangelical voters in the Colorado Springs area, but Virginia still has more of them. In Virginia, center-left voters tend to identify as Democrats; in Colorado, they're more likely to call themselves independent. Virginia, with its connection to Washington, is a bit more of a pro-establishment state, while Colorado, like much of the Mountain West, is more anti-establishment.
There's also an important economic difference between the states. Virginia's unemployment rate is well below the national average, at 5.6 percent. Colorado is still suffering through 8.1 percent unemployment. Its jobless rate has risen some in recent months, while Virginia's has continued to fall.
Mr. Obama won Colorado by a larger margin in 2008 - by 8.9 percentage points, against 6.3 in Virginia - but that isn't all that large a difference; small enough that some of these differences could reverse their order on the electoral map. 
At the very least, it seems misguided to lump Virginia together with states like North Carolina and Indiana that Mr. Romney should have a much easier time winning back. 
And it seems nave to assume that Colorado is part of any kind of electoral firewall for Mr. Obama. If the economic recovery is more sluggish in the West than in other parts of the country, its anti-establishment spirit will kick in, and this won't be the last poll we see putting him behind there.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (71%) projection update

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



286 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Taxing Olympic Medalists

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: A proposal to make Olympic medals and their accompanying cash bonuses tax-exempt illustrates the political elusiveness of tax reform. 

 BODY:
If I get a bonus for good performance, it's taxed. If you get a bonus for good performance, it's taxed. Heck, when Lloyd Blankfein gets a bonus for good performance (or bad performance!), even he pays taxes on it.
But if LeBron James - who, with a total compensation of $53 million, earns more than all three of us put together, I'm willing to wager - gets a bonus for performing well in a single athletic event, well, that should be tax-exempt.
At least that is what Marco Rubio, a Republican senator from Florida, and President Obama believe.
Senator Rubio has proposed exempting Olympic medals and the cash bonuses that accompany them from income taxes. These cash bonuses, awarded by the United States Olympic Committee, total $25,000 for gold, $15,000 for silver and $10,000 for bronze.
A spokesman for Mr. Obama said the president would enthusiastically sign such legislation.
"The president believes that we should support efforts - like, I think, the bill you are referencing - to ensure that we are doing everything we can to honor and support our Olympic athletes who have volunteered to represent our nation at the Olympic Games," Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, told reporters earlier this week.
The Olympics have long allowed professional athletes to compete. The money they earn for succeeding is earned income, just like the income I earn from my chosen profession and you earn from yours. And for some Olympic athletes who earn a medal, a lot more income usually rolls in, too, in the form of professional endorsements. Just ask Michael Phelps.
In other words, if the proposed tax exemption is rooted in the sympathy Americans have for the many lesser-known Olympic athletes who make financial sacrifices to train without ever making LeBron-level cash, these struggling Olympians are not even going to benefit from exempting medal-related bonuses.
Perhaps more important, basing tax breaks on sympathy is dangerous. The moment you designate medal-winning athletes' personal income as somehow more nobly earned than the personal income of other workers - including, I should note, social workers, teachers, artists and others who believe they labor on behalf of the "public good" -- you can end up with a whole lot of me-too-ism from other people demanding similar preferential treatment.
For this reason, Mr. Rubio's tax proposal is a great illustration of why tax reform in the United States is so darn elusive. Every tax break sounds like such a good idea, after all!
It's no wonder, then, that tax loopholes and subsidies reduced government revenues by around $700 billion to $1.2 trillion last year, depending on how broadly you define the term. (For context, the federal deficit was about $1.3 trillion last year.)
That said, my colleague Floyd Norris offers an alternate economic rationale Mr. Rubio could try trotting out to support his bill. See if you agree:
Such a tax provision would provide an incentive for Americans to win more medals, which would in turn lead to better television ratings and more profits for NBC. The joy over the medals would lead consumers to buy more and cause home buyers to offer to pay more.
In other words, this is the stimulus that the economy needs.

        
Olympics: Money Matters
        
A Tax Strategy for Athletes
        
Women in the Olympics, Over Time
        
The Super Bowl and New York's Economy
        
Do Big-Time Sports Mean Big-Time Support for Universities?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); TAX REFORM (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); LEGISLATION (72%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%) LeBron James; Marco Rubio; Olympics; sports; sports economics; taxes; Rubio, Marco; Awards, Decorations and Honors; Olympic Games; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: MARCO RUBIO (90%); LEBRON JAMES (76%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (72%); BARACK OBAMA (69%); MICHAEL PHELPS (56%) Rubio, Marco

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



287 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Fuzzy Math

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: The Romney campaign's latest economic policy paper. 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney is hardly the first Republican presidential candidate to assure Americans that cutting taxes and ending regulation will bring joy to the nation.
Ronald Reagan did it, George H.W. Bush did it, and George W. Bush did it. They won. We got soaring deficits, the worst income inequality since there was income and out-of-control financial institutions that nearly destroyed the American economy. Mr. Romney seems to have learned nothing from that history. He claims President Obama's stimulus-based policies made the recession worse and then hamstrung the recovery, while his brand of austerity will restore prosperity.
Mr. Romney keeps his economic platform pretty fuzzy, with good reason. The more he spins his story, the more evidence there is that it's a fantasy.

Mr. Romney has said, for instance, that he can cut marginal tax rates by 20 percent, eliminate the estate tax and the alternative minimum income tax and end capital gains taxes for middle-income Americans without reducing the amount of money flowing into the Treasury.
The answer, he said, is getting rid of certain loopholes. He won't say what those are, of course (presumably not the $77,000 "business loss" he claimed for his wife's dressage horse, Rafalca, who just flunked out of the Olympics.)
But a recent study by the Tax Policy Center, a joint venture of the Brookings Institution and the Urban Institute, found that there aren't enough loopholes to balance the loss of revenue, and concluded that Mr. Romney's proposal would lead to significantly lower taxes for the rich, and a higher tax burden on middle- and lower-income taxpayers.
The Romney campaign attacked the study because one of the authors worked for the Treasury Department under Mr. Obama. Another worked for President George H.W. Bush, but-for the sake of argument-I'll concede the point: A study by people who work for a candidate or used to work for one is, as the campaign policy director, put it, "just another biased study."
What, then, are we to make of a paper released by the Romney campaign on Tuesday claiming that cold data show the recovery has been really slow, that Mr. Obama's stimulus policies made it worse and that Mr. Romney's plans would reverse the trends. After all, the authors, Glenn Hubbard, Greg Mankiw, John Taylor and Kevin Hassett, are associated with the Romney campaign. Oops.
Granted, the paper cites the conclusions of other economists - some of whom are not associated with Mr. Romney-but when Ezra Klein of The Washington Post asked these economists "what they thought of the Romney campaign's interpretation of their research," they all "responded with a polite version of Marshall McLuhan's famous riposte. The Romney campaign, they said, knows little of their work. Or of their policy proposals."
I highly recommend you read the article here. But the basic point is that the Romney paper misrepresents those non-affiliated economists. Their conclusions were either the opposite of what Mr. Romney's gang of four economists said they were, or the studies had nothing to do with the economic problems at issue.
George H.W. Bush once called it voodoo, as true an insult today as it was then. Unless like Mr. Romney and his biggest donors, you're so rich that you can't feel the pins.

        
'Put Up or Shut Up'
        
Romney's Tax Hike
        
The Cycle of Standoffs
        
Opinion Report: Tax Breaks
        
Opinion Report: Foreign Earnings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); RECESSION (76%); WRITERS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INCOME TAX (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); TRENDS (69%) stimulus spending; Taxes; Klein, Ezra; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (54%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%) Klein, Ezra; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



288 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Poll Finds Tight Senate Races in Virginia and Wisconsin

BYLINE: ALLISON KOPICKI


HIGHLIGHT: The Senate race in Virginia is closely divided between two former governors, with 48 percent of likely voters supporting the Democrat Tim Kaine and 46 percent supporting the Republican George Allen. 

 BODY:
A new poll finds tight races for Senate seats in the presidential swing states of Virginia and Wisconsin.
In Virginia, where the race pairs two former governors, 48 percent of likely voters support the Democratic candidate, Tim Kaine, and 46 percent back the Republican nominee, George Allen, a difference that is within the poll's margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.
Mr. Kaine does better among African-Americans, women, college graduates and younger voters. Mr. Allen's support is concentrated among white evangelical Christians, men, older people and voters who do not have a college degree.
At this point in the race, independents are breaking for Mr. Allen, 49 to 41 percent, according to the results of a new Quinnipiac University/New York Times/CBS News poll conducted by telephone from July 31 to Aug. 6 among 1,412 likely voters.
Throughout his primary campaign this spring, Mr. Allen sought to link his opponent to President Obama, and the poll showed that Virginia voters are divided on the presidential race as well, with 49 percent supporting Mr. Obama and 45 percent backing Mitt Romney.
The Virginians surveyed are somewhat more optimistic about the state's economy than the nation's. About one in 6 said that Virginia's economy was getting worse, compared to nearly 4 in 10 who said the nation's economy was worsening. About half of Virginians said their state's economy would stay the same, and 3 in 10 said it was improving. Virginia had a 5.7 percent unemployment rate in June, well below the national rate of 8.3 percent.
Virginians appear to be happy with the performance of Gov. Bob McDonnell, a Republican; 52 percent of voters approved of his performance, and 29 percent disapproved.
In the Wisconsin Senate race, the poll finds Representative Tammy Baldwin, a Democrat, in a dead heat with the three leading Republican contenders who will face off in a primary next week - former Gov. Tommy G. Thompson; Mark Neumann, a former member of the House; and Eric Hovde, a hedge fund manager.
In a head-to-head match, Ms. Baldwin and Mr. Thompson each received 47 percent support. Against Mr. Hovde and Mr. Neumann, Ms. Baldwin had a four-point and three-point edge respectively, differences that are within the poll's margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points on each candidate.
Against a fourth Republican in the field, Jeff Fitzgerald, the State Assembly speaker, Ms. Baldwin holds a 12-point lead. The Quinnipiac University/Times/CBS News poll was conducted July 31 to Aug. 6 among 1,428 likely voters.

        
Will Obama Ask Kaine to Seek Virginia Senate Seat?
        
Republicans Hit Kaine Ahead of Senate Decision
        
Senator Webb Will Not Run for Re-election
        
Political Tidbits About Kaine, Bayh and Obama
        
A Turnover in Virginia

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); RELIGION (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); APPROVALS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) barack obama; Democrats; Eric Hovde; george allen; Mark Neumann; Republicans; Senate; Tammy Baldwin; tim kaine; Tommy G. Thompson; Virginia; Wisconsin; Allen, George F; Baldwin, Tammy; Fitzgerald, Jeff (1966- ); Kaine, Timothy M; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Thompson, Tommy G; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; United States Politics and Government; Democratic Party; Republican Party; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Republican Party; Senate

PERSON: TIM KAINE (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); TOMMY THOMPSON (89%); TAMMY BALDWIN (89%); MARK S THOMPSON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JIM WEBB (58%) Allen, George F; Baldwin, Tammy; Fitzgerald, Jeff (1966- ); Kaine, Timothy M; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Thompson, Tommy G

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (96%); WISCONSIN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (96%) Virginia; Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



289 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: In Iowa, Romney Leaves a Stance on Wind Power Unsaid

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL


HIGHLIGHT: In Des Moines, Mitt Romney called for developing energy resources that included wind power, but did not mention that he opposes a tax credit for the wind industry that the state's Republican leadership strongly favors. 

 BODY:
DES MOINES -- Seeking support in the swing state of Iowa, Mitt Romney on Wednesday called for developing a laundry list of energy resources that included wind power, but he pointedly did not mention that he opposes a tax credit for the wind industry that the state's Republican leadership strongly favors. 
Gov. Terry Branstad and members of Iowa's Congressional delegation have criticized Mr. Romney in recent days for not backing a longstanding tax break for wind energy in a state where the industry employs about 7,000 workers and supplies 20 percent of the kilowatts. 
Mr. Branstad told Iowa reporters that the Romney campaign suffered from "confusion" over the issue and that he hoped to talk with Mr. Romney so he would become "educated." On Wednesday, Mr. Branstad was in a different part of the state, and a senior Romney aide said he did not think they had communicated. 
Representative Tom Latham, a Republican, said on Monday that Mr. Romney's opposition "shows a lack of full understanding of how important the wind energy tax credit is for Iowa and our nation.''
Mr. Latham, who introduced Mr. Romney here, did not mention the issue. 
Mr. Romney has long criticized President Obama over subsidies to "green" energy companies, including the bankrupt Solyndra. His campaign argues that extending a wind tax break, which is due to expire this year, would be a government intrusion into the free market. The position has won support from the Tea Party, members of the conservative base whom Mr. Romney needs to court to succeed in Iowa in November. 
Last month a state spokesman for the Romney campaign told The Des Moines Register, "Wind energy will thrive wherever it is economically competitive, and wherever private-sector competitors with far more experience than the president believe the investment will produce results."
At the same time, Mr. Romney favors keeping tax breaks for the oil industry. 
Speaking here to campaign activists who had traveled from around the state, Mr. Romney said, "We have got to take advantage of America's extraordinary energy resources - coal, oil, gas, nuclear, renewables, wind, solar, ethanol, you name it - we've got to take advantage of all of them.''
He mentioned an article he had read predicting that the United States could be the world's largest energy producer in a decade, which he said would produce a jobs boom as manufacturers took advantage of low-cost power.
But he did not mention his opposition to the wind industry tax credit, which passed with a bipartisan vote this month in the Senate Finance Committee. 
Mr. Obama, who campaigned in Colorado on Wednesday, another battleground state with a large wind industry, planned to promote his support of the tax break. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); TAX LAW (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); WIND ENERGY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); ALCOHOLS (64%) Branstad, Terry E; Latham, Tom; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Energy and Power; Presidential Election of 2012; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Wind Power; Des Moines (IA); Iowa; The Caucus

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); TOM LATHAM (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); TERRY BRANSTAD (79%) Branstad, Terry E; Latham, Tom; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (94%) IOWA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Des Moines (IA); Iowa

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



290 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Obama Says Romney Would Take Women Back to 1950s on Health Care

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: Opening a two-day swing across Colorado, the president focused on the benefits of his health-care law for women and families, and reopened a debate over contraception. 

 BODY:
DENVER - President Obama made one of his strongest pitches to date to rally the women's vote that is crucial to his re-election, telling a mostly female crowd estimated at 4,000 in the swing state of Colorado on Wednesday that Republicans led by Mitt Romney would take them back to the policies of the 1950s
Mr. Obama was introduced at a downtown campus shared by three local colleges by Sandra Fluke, the Georgetown Law School graduate who this year was celebrated by some national women's groups and denounced by conservatives like the broadcaster Rush Limbaugh. Mr. Limbaugh called her "a prostitute" after Republicans blocked her from testifying in Congress in support of requiring insurance coverage of contraception methods.
The president told the crowd, which was made up of people of all ages: "The direction you choose when you walk into that voting booth three months from now will have a direct impact not just on your lives but on the lives of your children and the lives of your grandchildren. And that's true for everybody, but it's especially true for the women in this country -- from working moms to college students to seniors."
"When it comes to the economy, it's bad enough that our opponents want to take us back to the same policies of the last decade - the same policies that got us into this mess in the first place," Mr. Obama said. "But," he added, "when it comes to a woman's right to make her own health care choices, they want to take us back to the policies more suited to the 1950s than the 21st century."
For the rally opening his two-day, four-stop swing across Colorado, one of about a dozen battleground states, Mr. Obama departed from his usual broad stump speech to focus on the benefits of his signature health-insurance law for women and families, and to reopen a debate over contraception that roiled the Republican presidential nomination contest this year and that helped solidify Mr. Obama's support among women.
"The decisions that affect a woman's health, they're not up to politicians, they're not up to insurance companies," he said. They're up to you. And you deserve a president that will fight to keep it that way."
Generally about 6 in 10 women voters support the president, nationally and in many swing states, helping to offset a gender gap that has white males opposing him by roughly the same margin.
In Colorado, however, Mr. Obama's lead over Mitt Romney among women is not as wide, according to a new pollfor Quinnipiac University/New York Times/CBS News that showed 51 percent of women among likely Colorado voters backing the president, compared with 43 percent supporting Mr. Romney. And Mr. Obama's thinner-than-before advantage among women helped account for Mr. Romney's narrow five-point edge among Colorado voters over all.
Mr. Obama's campaign advisers disputed the poll's results and said their own surveys showed the president with a slight lead.
Mr. Obama, as he has lately, purposely called the 2010 health care law by the name that Republicans gave it - Obamacare -- "because," he said to laughs and applause, "I do care."
He criticized Mr. Romney for promising to seek the repeal of the law and to end public financing of Planned Parenthood - messages echoed in Obama campaign advertisements televised in the state. He cited the benefits that would be lost without the health insurance law: coverage for people with pre-existing medical conditions and for young adults under 26 years old on their parents' policies; savings for older Americans with large prescription drug bills; mandated coverage of preventive services like contraception; and insurance company rebates.
From Denver, Mr. Obama flew west to Grand Junction, in a region that he did not win in 2008, for another event. On Thursday, he will campaign in Pueblo, in the heavily Latino southeast. In each place he planned to draw attention to his support for - and Mr. Romney's opposition to - renewing federal tax credits to encourage wind energy.
In Colorado, which has become a leader in harnessing energy from the wind, tax incentives have bipartisan support. Recent news media coverage has not been kind to Mr. Romney, noting that he supports oil and gas subsidies even as he attacks the wind energy credits as part of what he calls Mr. Obama's costly obsession with "green jobs." A column this week in The Denver Post began, "Is Romney trying to blow it?"
At each stop, including the last at Colorado College in Colorado Springs on Thursday, Mr. Obama will also continue the assault against Mr. Romney's tax cut plans. He mounted the attacks last week in two other battleground states, Ohio and Florida. The basis of his message is a nonpartisan study released last week that concluded that Mr. Romney's proposals inevitably would mean big income tax reductions for the wealthiest taxpayers and increases for the other 95 percent of Americans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WOMEN (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); INSURANCE LAW (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); INSURANCE (74%); CONTRACEPTION (74%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); WORKING MOTHERS (67%) Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Presidential Election of 2012; Women and Girls; Colorado; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (90%) COLORADO, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Colorado

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



291 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Obama Says Romney Would Take Women Back to 1950s on Health Care

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: Opening a two-day swing across Colorado, the president focused on the benefits of his health-care law for women and families, and reopened a debate over contraception. 

 BODY:
DENVER - President Obama made one of his strongest pitches to date to rally the women's vote that is crucial to his re-election, telling a mostly female crowd estimated at 4,000 in the swing state of Colorado on Wednesday that Republicans led by Mitt Romney would take them back to the policies of the 1950s
Mr. Obama was introduced at a downtown campus shared by three local colleges by Sandra Fluke, the Georgetown Law School graduate who this year was celebrated by some national women's groups and denounced by conservatives like the broadcaster Rush Limbaugh. Mr. Limbaugh called her "a prostitute" after Republicans blocked her from testifying in Congress in support of requiring insurance coverage of contraception methods.
The president told the crowd, which was made up of people of all ages: "The direction you choose when you walk into that voting booth three months from now will have a direct impact not just on your lives but on the lives of your children and the lives of your grandchildren. And that's true for everybody, but it's especially true for the women in this country -- from working moms to college students to seniors."
"When it comes to the economy, it's bad enough that our opponents want to take us back to the same policies of the last decade - the same policies that got us into this mess in the first place," Mr. Obama said. "But," he added, "when it comes to a woman's right to make her own health care choices, they want to take us back to the policies more suited to the 1950s than the 21st century."
For the rally opening his two-day, four-stop swing across Colorado, one of about a dozen battleground states, Mr. Obama departed from his usual broad stump speech to focus on the benefits of his signature health-insurance law for women and families, and to reopen a debate over contraception that roiled the Republican presidential nomination contest this year and that helped solidify Mr. Obama's support among women.
"The decisions that affect a woman's health, they're not up to politicians, they're not up to insurance companies," he said. They're up to you. And you deserve a president that will fight to keep it that way."
Generally about 6 in 10 women voters support the president, nationally and in many swing states, helping to offset a gender gap that has white males opposing him by roughly the same margin.
In Colorado, however, Mr. Obama's lead over Mitt Romney among women is not as wide, according to a new pollfor Quinnipiac University/New York Times/CBS News that showed 51 percent of women among likely Colorado voters backing the president, compared with 43 percent supporting Mr. Romney. And Mr. Obama's thinner-than-before advantage among women helped account for Mr. Romney's narrow five-point edge among Colorado voters over all.
Mr. Obama's campaign advisers disputed the poll's results and said their own surveys showed the president with a slight lead.
Mr. Obama, as he has lately, purposely called the 2010 health care law by the name that Republicans gave it - Obamacare -- "because," he said to laughs and applause, "I do care."
He criticized Mr. Romney for promising to seek the repeal of the law and to end public financing of Planned Parenthood - messages echoed in Obama campaign advertisements televised in the state. He cited the benefits that would be lost without the health insurance law: coverage for people with pre-existing medical conditions and for young adults under 26 years old on their parents' policies; savings for older Americans with large prescription drug bills; mandated coverage of preventive services like contraception; and insurance company rebates.
From Denver, Mr. Obama flew west to Grand Junction, in a region that he did not win in 2008, for another event. On Thursday, he will campaign in Pueblo, in the heavily Latino southeast. In each place he planned to draw attention to his support for - and Mr. Romney's opposition to - renewing federal tax credits to encourage wind energy.
In Colorado, which has become a leader in harnessing energy from the wind, tax incentives have bipartisan support. Recent news media coverage has not been kind to Mr. Romney, noting that he supports oil and gas subsidies even as he attacks the wind energy credits as part of what he calls Mr. Obama's costly obsession with "green jobs." A column this week in The Denver Post began, "Is Romney trying to blow it?"
At each stop, including the last at Colorado College in Colorado Springs on Thursday, Mr. Obama will also continue the assault against Mr. Romney's tax cut plans. He mounted the attacks last week in two other battleground states, Ohio and Florida. The basis of his message is a nonpartisan study released last week that concluded that Mr. Romney's proposals inevitably would mean big income tax reductions for the wealthiest taxpayers and increases for the other 95 percent of Americans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WOMEN (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); INSURANCE LAW (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); INSURANCE (74%); CONTRACEPTION (74%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); WORKING MOTHERS (67%) Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Presidential Election of 2012; Women and Girls; Colorado; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (90%) COLORADO, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Colorado

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



292 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Powerful Indian Financial Exchange Trades Accusations With Economist

BYLINE: VIKAS BAJAJ


HIGHLIGHT: Multi Commodity Exchange sued the economist Ajay Shah claiming defamation, but he accused it of using legal means to silence a critic. 

 BODY:
MUMBAI, India - It is the business version of "he said, she said."
One of India's fastest-growing financial exchanges is suing a prominent economist claiming defamation. But Ajay Shah, the economist, says the Multi Commodity Exchange of India is just using legal means to quiet a critic.
The case has raised fresh concerns about colonial-era laws that give significant power to policy makers, companies and individuals to muzzle critics and those they consider offensive.
 Unlike libel law in the United States, defamation in India can be treated as either a civil or criminal matter. Those found guilty can be fined and sentenced to up to two years in prison. And such lawsuits can take years to resolve because the Indian courts are backlogged with millions of cases.
"It has become a tool for intimidation," said Karuna Nundy, a lawyer who has defended defamation cases but is not involved in Mr. Shah's cases.
The lawsuits follow a long tradition of Indian companies using defamation laws to punish journalists when their reputations have been attacked or to pre-empt attacks.
In 1998, Reliance Industries, one of India's largest conglomerates, obtained a court injunction against the publication of "The Polyester Prince," a book about the rise of the company's founder Dhirubhai Ambani. Last year, an education company sued the magazine The Caravan, and secured a court order requiring it to remove an unflattering profile of the firm and its founder, Arindam Chaudhuri, from its Web site.
Mr. Shah and the Multi Commodity Exchange of India, or MCX, are heavyweights in Indian finance.
Mr. Shah, a former consultant to the Finance Ministry, is often asked by the government for advice, and his work is read globally by analysts and policy makers who are interested in the Indian economy. MCX is the nation's dominant exchange for commodity derivatives, and its founder, Jignesh Shah, no relation, is considered one of the country's most successful entrepreneurs.
Their complaints go back several years.
In 2009, Mr. Shah, the economist, wrote a column titled "The 'X' Factor in Regulation" in The Financial Express newspaper. He argued that the Forward Markets Commission, MCX's primary regulator, had improperly helped the company by ruling against one of its competitors in a regulatory matter over the cost of trading certain derivative contracts.
"When regulation is weak, this encourages the players who have strengths in fixing the regulatory system to their own advantage," Mr. Shah wrote in the column.
After it was published, MCX filed suit in Mumbai, arguing that Mr. Shah had implied that the company was doing business in "an illegal and illegitimate manner." The company added that Mr. Shah had done so to jeopardize MCX's plans for an initial public offering, which took place early this year.
MCX, in particular, took issue with Mr. Shah's ties to a rival exchange. The company argued that Mr. Shah was biased since he was a former board member at the National Commodity and Derivatives Exchange, the competitor cited in the article.
MCX added that a firm owned by Mr. Shah's family sells data to that exchange. Mr. Shah also sits on the board of a company that clears stock trades on National Stock Exchange of India, which is a big shareholder in the National Commodity exchange.
MCX officials declined requests for comment, citing the continuing legal cases. But the exchange has offered its position in legal filings and a newspaper ad.
"He was attempting to give a simple regulatory noncompliance issue by one Exchange a colour of competition," MCX said in the ad. "Normally academicians do not hold any briefs when they give their views publicly as intellectuals and if they do so, propriety demands that they divulge such facts which Ajay Shah failed to do."
Mr. Shah countered that the lawsuits were meant to squelch criticism. He acknowledged that a company owned by his family, the Center for Monitoring Indian Economy, provides data to the National Commodity exchange. But he added that it provides data to many players in Indian finance, including the Reserve Bank of India, a frequent target of his criticism.
"The way India works is once a few cases like these are opened, a lot of people are reluctant to write about the issue," he said, in an interview. "In the future, you will be very, very careful of taking on MCX."
Both sides have raised the legal stakes since the initial case was filed.
In 2010, Mr. Shah tried to have the case dismissed by higher courts, but they ruled that he must stand trial in Mumbai. Last year, MCX filed two more lawsuits against Mr. Shah. In them, the exchange argued he defamed it by listing it among a group of companies that were dealt with in a tough manner by an Indian securities regulator whom Mr. Shah finds admirable.
MCX filed the cases in Kolhapur, 235 miles south of Mumbai, and Surat, 180 miles north of Mumbai. Mr. Shah argues that those cities were chosen to make it difficult for him to defend himself because he lives in Mumbai. The company, which is also based in Mumbai, has argued the cases were filed in the cities where executives first read and heard Mr. Shah's comments.
The suits have reignited calls to reform the country's laws, which date to the 19th century.
The Editors Guild of India has been pushing for an amendment that would classify defamation as only a civil offense. Some free speech specialists have argued that the government and publishers should strengthen quasi-judicial Press Council of India to resolve most complaints against the media, so that few cases end up in courts.
In part, they are pushing to speed up the resolution of disputes. Defamation suits, like most other cases in India, can languish for years. Indian courts have a backlog of 30 million cases, and more than a quarter of them are at least five years old, according to the government.
"By the time the case is resolved in Indian courts, the person or company has already been put through inconvenience," said Vijayendra Pratap Singh, a partner at one of India's largest corporate law firms, Amarchand & Mangaldas & Suresh A. Shroff.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LIBEL & SLANDER (96%); LITIGATION (92%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); PLASTICS MARKETS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); CRIMINAL FINES (75%); SENTENCING (75%); VERDICTS (75%); INJUNCTIONS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); WRITERS (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%) Ajay Shah; Arindam Chaudhuri; Dhirubhai Ambani; Jignesh Shah; Multi Commodity Exchange of India; National Commodity and Derivatives Exchange; Press Council of India; Libel and Slander; Suits and Litigation; India; Shah, Ajay; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Media

COMPANY: MULTI COMMODITY EXCHANGE OF INDIA LTD (91%); RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LTD (90%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (91%)

TICKER: MCX (NSE) (91%); RIGD (LSE) (90%); RELIANCE (NSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); NAICS313110 FIBER, YARN & THREAD MILLS (90%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (90%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2012



293 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths HEINEMAN, BEN W.

 BODY:
HEINEMAN--Ben W.,Sr. Ben W. Heineman Sr., of Chicago, died on August 5, 2012, at age 98. He was revered as a giant of his generation--a brilliant lawyer, a far-sighted businessman, an adviser to presidents, governors and mayors, a prominent Chicago leader, a deeply committed supporter of opera and symphony, an influential trustee of the University of Chicago, and a world-class collector of contemporary glass. These and many other accomplishments reflected a person of extraordinary character, integrity and, independence, whose life truly deserved the phrases "business statesman" and "Renaissance man." He was a warm, witty, wise and caring counselor to many and, ultimately, an exemplary citizen of his city, his state, and his country. 
Ben was born in Wausau, Wisconsin, on February 10, 1914, six months before the start of World War I, the son of Walter Benjamin and Elsie Brunswick Heineman. After his family lost all its money in 1929, he attended the University of Michigan from 1930 to 1933 and then Northwestern Law School, graduating in 1936 at the top of his class and as the editor of the law review. His legal career spanned the next 20 years. He was a leading corporate lawyer in Chicago. Ben had deep friendships with the faculty at the University of Chicago law school (especially then-Dean Edward Levi, later University President). With professors and practitioners, he helped write the first version of the Uniform Commercial Code, a pillar of American law. During World War II, he served as assistant general counsel in the Office of Price Administration and then as assistant director of the North African Economic board. In 1951, Governor Adlai E. Stevenson appointed him special assistant attorney general to investigate Illinois' cigarette tax fraud. In 1952, he worked on the Stevenson Presidential campaign, drafting the Stevenson speech sharply criticizing Sen. Joseph McCarthy. In 1956, he was named CEO of the Chicago and Northwestern Railway after he led a successful proxy fight for dissident shareholders. He became a leading American businessman, as a dramatic innovator in a traditional industry, modernizing operating methods, reshaping labor relations, turning Chicago's commuter rail service into an acclaimed model for the nation, seeking de-regulation and greater competition. In 1968, he transformed the railway into a conglomerate, Northwest Industries, with industrial and consumer components. In 1972, he sold the railroad to its employees who benefited from the sale. Ben retired as CEO of Northwest in 1985, at age 71, having demonstrated the controversial conglomerate form of business could succeed with strong central resource allocation and decentralized responsibility. During his 30 years in business he also took on many governmental assignments. He served President Lyndon Johnson in numerous capacities, including chairman of the White House Conference on Civil Rights (1966); President's Task Force on Government Organization (1966-67); President's Commission on Income Maintenance Programs (1968). A "Man in the News" article in the New York Times called him "a can-do man with a conscience." He chaired the Illinois Board of Higher Education from 1962-69, developing master plans approved ultimately by the state legislature. In 1966, at the height of racial tension, Mayor Richard Daley appointed him chair of the Chicago Civil Rights Summit Conference on Fair Housing. But he turned down federal Cabinet positions and requests to run for public office, preferring to take on ad hoc assignments and retain his base as a private civic leader. He was a leading (and then life) trustee of the University of Chicago, of the Art Institute of Chicago, the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and the Chicago Lyric Opera. He also served on many other corporate and charitable boards. The great foundation of Ben's life was his beloved wife, Natalie Goldstein Heineman, a national leader in child welfare services. They married on April 17, 1935. She died on February 28, 2010, just shy of their 75th wedding anniversary. As a couple, they exemplified civic commitment. They were also great adventurers and world travelers, e.g. sailing alone, into their early 80s, on their 62-foot sailboat along the beautiful but desolate North shore of Lake Superior. Ben loved cars, skiing, skeet shooting, photography, woodworking, computers (he was one of the first CEOs to have a desk-top) and reading. They were deeply attached to their summer home in Door County, Wisconsin, on a 200-foot limestone cliff looking westward over Green Bay, where they often welcomed friends and family. One of their greatest adventures after Ben's retirement was assembling one of the nation's largest and finest private collections of contemporary studio glass. In 2006, Ben and Natalie gave the entire collection, valued at nearly $10 million, to the Corning Museum of Glass in Corning, New York, where all 240 objects by 87 international artists will be shown permanently on a rotating basis. Ben is survived by his daughter Dr. Martha Heineman Pieper (Dr. William Pieper) of Chicago and their children: Thalia Field (Jamie Jewett and son Benjamin), Dr. Jessica Heineman-Pieper (Dr. Param Srikantia), Johanna Heineman-Pieper, and Victoria Stein (Jotham Stein and son Gershon). He is also survived by his son, Ben W. Heineman, Jr. (Cristine Russell) of New Canaan, CT and their sons Zachary Heineman and Matthew Heineman. There will be a private family service. In lieu of flowers, donations in the name of Ben W. Heineman Sr. can be made to The Natalie G. Heineman Smart Love Pre-school, 800 W. Buena Avenue, Chicago, IL 60613 or online at www.smartlovefamily.org/ contribute.php.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL LAW (77%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (74%); WORLD WAR I (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (69%); UNIFORM COMMERCIAL CODE (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); WORLD WAR II (68%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (68%); TAX FRAUD (68%); TAX LAW (67%); DEREGULATION (65%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (63%); SHAREHOLDERS (61%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (76%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); WAUSAU, WI, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



294 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: A Print Focus Returns In Lane Bryant Campaign

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
LANE BRYANT, the women's plus-size fashion retailer, is introducing a $10 million advertising and marketing campaign to make its clothing and lingerie more relevant to current and prospective customers.The campaign by MODCo, a New York-based agency that has worked with Vera Wang, Century 21, Theory, Carolina Herrera and other fashion companies, features new print advertising; a revamped Web site and social media outreach; and in-store and direct marketing initiatives, including new logos for the Lane Bryant clothing and Cacique lingerie brands. The target customers are women ages 30 to 45 who wear sizes 14 to 28.
''The campaign is meant to showcase the great fashion we have that fits the dynamic lifestyle of our customer and makes her feel sexy, confident and happy,'' said Liz Crystal, chief marketing officer at Lane Bryant. ''We want to celebrate who she is. We want to be aspirational in fashion, but the key is to be relatable.'' 
Founded in New York in 1904 by a Lithuanian dressmaker, Lane Bryant was sold in May with its parent company, Charming Shoppes, to Ascena Retail Group for $890 million. Ms. Crystal said the new marketing strategy was in the works before the sale. The company, which operates about 800 stores, had sales of $992 million and profits of $111 million in the fiscal year that ended in January; 12 percent of its sales were generated online in that time period.
A major factor behind Lane Bryant's new initiatives is the recent weakness in sales of all women's fashions, and particularly in sales of plus-size women's fashions.
The current recession ''has hit the women's market harder than previous recessions,'' said Marshal Cohen, chief retail analyst for the NPD Group. ''The road to recovery is yet to occur for the women's market in total. It just started breaking even over the last year.''
Mr. Cohen added that while plus-size women were ''an ever-growing part of the population, they're also the most underserved part of the market.'' He said that for the year ending May 31, sales of plus-size apparel made up 16 percent of all female apparel sales, while in 2006, plus-size sales were almost one-fifth of total sales.
''Traditionally, when the economy goes bad, plus-size consumers are the first ones to show a lack of growth and are the last to recover, which is another reason retailers are hesitant to grow plus sizes,'' Mr. Cohen said.
To attract new customers and increase sales to its current customer base, Lane Bryant is introducing for the fall 2012 season what it calls ''trend-driven fashions,'' including a houndstooth cape, animal-printed denim clothing and bluejeans in a proprietary fabric that contains Lycra and is designed to neither bag nor sag.
This clothing appears in print advertising, a new medium for the retailer, which has not done extensive magazine advertising since 2007. Ms. Crystal said Lane Bryant was turning to the print medium now because its target customer is ''engaged with print. She uses print to learn about fashion. We felt print was important.''
The print ads feature popular plus-size models like Candice Huffine, Robyn Lawley and Marquita Pring, each shown in a real-life setting, like an urban exterior or home interior. All ads contain the new Lane Bryant logo and the campaign's tagline, ''Fashion for every day, style just for you.'' An ad for a Cacique bra, worn by Ms. Pring, also contains the new Cacique logo.
The ads will run in the September and October issues of magazines like Essence, Glamour, InStyle, Latina and Marie Claire. The company also plans to run billboard advertising in Times Square in November.
''Previous photo shoots were more studio- and product-focused,'' said Sara Rotman, chief executive of MODCo. ''We are much more women-focused and are trying to create a personality for the brand, to celebrate the customer.''
Lane Bryant has updated its Web site and Facebook pages, adding the new logo and images like those in its new print advertising. Beginning this month, the retailer is also rolling out new direct-mail efforts and in-store collateral, like shopping bags, gift cards and clothing tags.
Ms. Crystal said the budget for the new campaign was $10 million, including advertising, collateral and market research expenditures. According to Kantar Media, this is the most Lane Bryant has spent on advertising since 2007, when its expenditures totaled $11.7 million; expenditures since then have ranged from $634,000 in 2009 to $6.9 million in 2010.
Mr. Cohen praised the new campaign over all. ''Lane Bryant is telling consumers, we have heard you -- we're going to provide you with a new experience, with a more rounded product in tune with what you want,'' he said.
''Any communication you have with an audience you've ignored for a period of time may take some time to resonate,'' he added. ''The good news is this group will spread the word. They're very communicative.''
Burt P. Flickinger III, a fashion consultant in New York, predicted the campaign would do ''exceptionally well.''
''Lane Bryant is competing against itself,'' he said. ''Plus-size women are the fastest growing fashion category, and Lane Bryant has had no real marketing news in the past decade. They are going to address major, unmet consumer demand.''
Inge Lehmann, a principal in Whitaker International, a fashion consulting firm, called the new ads ''very tasteful and beautifully done.''
She added, however, that Lane Bryant needed to more clearly distinguish among different customer segments -- like those seeking glamorous, traditional or contemporary styles -- than it does now in order to improve sales significantly.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lane Bryant's new ads, to run in September and October magazine issues, feature popular plus-size models.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (90%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); SALES PROSPECTING (90%); WOMEN (89%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); WOMEN'S MARKET (89%); RECESSION (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); DIRECT MARKETING (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); MARKETING STRATEGY (78%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%)

COMPANY: ASCENA RETAIL GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: ASNA (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (58%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



295 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Powerful Indian Financial Exchange Trades Accusations With Economist

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
MUMBAI, India - It is the business version of "he said, she said."One of India's fastest-growing financial exchanges is suing a prominent economist claiming defamation. But Ajay Shah, the economist, says the Multi Commodity Exchange of India is just using legal means to quiet a critic.
The case has raised fresh concerns about colonial-era laws that give significant power to policy makers, companies and individuals to muzzle critics and those they consider offensive. 
Unlike libel law in the United States, defamation in India can be treated as either a civil or criminal matter. Those found guilty can be fined and sentenced to up to two years in prison. And such lawsuits can take years to resolve because the Indian courts are backlogged with millions of cases.
"It has become a tool for intimidation," said Karuna Nundy, a lawyer who has defended defamation cases but is not involved in Mr. Shah's cases.
The lawsuits follow a long tradition of Indian companies using defamation laws to punish journalists when their reputations have been attacked or to pre-empt attacks.
In 1998, Reliance Industries, one of India's largest conglomerates, obtained a court injunction against the publication of "The Polyester Prince," a book about the rise of the company's founder Dhirubhai Ambani. Last year, an education company sued the magazine The Caravan, and secured a court order requiring it to remove an unflattering profile of the firm and its founder, Arindam Chaudhuri, from its Web site.
Mr. Shah and the Multi Commodity Exchange of India, or MCX, are heavyweights in Indian finance.
Mr. Shah, a former consultant to the Finance Ministry, is often asked by the government for advice, and his work is read globally by analysts and policy makers who are interested in the Indian economy. MCX is the nation's dominant exchange for commodity derivatives, and its founder, Jignesh Shah, no relation, is considered one of the country's most successful entrepreneurs.
Their complaints go back several years.
In 2009, Mr. Shah, the economist, wrote a column titled "The 'X' Factor in Regulation" in The Financial Express newspaper. He argued that the Forward Markets Commission, MCX's primary regulator, had improperly helped the company by ruling against one of its competitors in a regulatory matter over the cost of trading certain derivative contracts.
"When regulation is weak, this encourages the players who have strengths in fixing the regulatory system to their own advantage," Mr. Shah wrote in the column.
After it was published, MCX filed suit in Mumbai, arguing that Mr. Shah had implied that the company was doing business in "an illegal and illegitimate manner." The company added that Mr. Shah had done so to jeopardize MCX's plans for an initial public offering, which took place early this year.
MCX, in particular, took issue with Mr. Shah's ties to a rival exchange. The company argued that Mr. Shah was biased since he was a former board member at the National Commodity and Derivatives Exchange, the competitor cited in the article.
MCX added that a firm owned by Mr. Shah's family sells data to that exchange. Mr. Shah also sits on the board of a company that clears stock trades on National Stock Exchange of India, which is a big shareholder in the National Commodity exchange.
MCX officials declined requests for comment, citing the continuing legal cases. But the exchange has offered its position in legal filings and a newspaper ad.
"He was attempting to give a simple regulatory noncompliance issue by one Exchange a colour of competition," MCX said in the ad. "Normally academicians do not hold any briefs when they give their views publicly as intellectuals and if they do so, propriety demands that they divulge such facts which Ajay Shah failed to do."
Mr. Shah countered that the lawsuits were meant to squelch criticism. He acknowledged that a company owned by his family, the Center for Monitoring Indian Economy, provides data to the National Commodity exchange. But he added that it provides data to many players in Indian finance, including the Reserve Bank of India, a frequent target of his criticism.
"The way India works is once a few cases like these are opened, a lot of people are reluctant to write about the issue," he said, in an interview. "In the future, you will be very, very careful of taking on MCX."
Both sides have raised the legal stakes since the initial case was filed.
In 2010, Mr. Shah tried to have the case dismissed by higher courts, but they ruled that he must stand trial in Mumbai. Last year, MCX filed two more lawsuits against Mr. Shah. In them, the exchange argued he defamed it by listing it among a group of companies that were dealt with in a tough manner by an Indian securities regulator whom Mr. Shah finds admirable.
MCX filed the cases in Kolhapur, 235 miles south of Mumbai, and Surat, 180 miles north of Mumbai. Mr. Shah argues that those cities were chosen to make it difficult for him to defend himself because he lives in Mumbai. The company, which is also based in Mumbai, has argued the cases were filed in the cities where executives first read and heard Mr. Shah's comments.
The suits have reignited calls to reform the country's laws, which date to the 19th century.
The Editors Guild of India has been pushing for an amendment that would classify defamation as only a civil offense. Some free speech specialists have argued that the government and publishers should strengthen quasi-judicial Press Council of India to resolve most complaints against the media, so that few cases end up in courts.
In part, they are pushing to speed up the resolution of disputes. Defamation suits, like most other cases in India, can languish for years. Indian courts have a backlog of 30 million cases, and more than a quarter of them are at least five years old, according to the government.
"By the time the case is resolved in Indian courts, the person or company has already been put through inconvenience," said Vijayendra Pratap Singh, a partner at one of India's largest corporate law firms, Amarchand & Mangaldas & Suresh A. Shroff.
Neha Thirani contributed reporting.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Mumbai office of Multi Commodity Exchange, which accused an economist of defamation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMIT BHARGAVA/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 The economist Ajay Shah said MCX wants to silence him. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FIRSTPOST)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBEL & SLANDER (93%); LITIGATION (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PLASTICS MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (75%); SENTENCING (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); VERDICTS (75%); INJUNCTIONS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); WRITERS (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%)

COMPANY: MULTI COMMODITY EXCHANGE OF INDIA LTD (91%); RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LTD (90%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%)

TICKER: MCX (NSE) (91%); RIGD (LSE) (90%); RELIANCE (NSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); NAICS313110 FIBER, YARN & THREAD MILLS (90%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (90%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



296 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Twin Reports Stoke Cautious Optimism for Rebound in the Housing Market

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In the latest sign that the worst might be over for the battered American housing market, the two government-controlled mortgage finance giants, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, this week reported some of their best quarterly results since the real estate collapse.On Wednesday, Fannie Mae posted second-quarter net income of $5.1 billion. That is up from $2.7 billion in the first quarter of this year and an improvement from a net loss of $2.9 billion in the second quarter of last year. Fannie requested no additional money from the Treasury and said it would pay a $2.9 billion dividend to taxpayers.
On Tuesday, its brother organization, Freddie Mac, announced second-quarter net income of $3 billion, up from $577 million in the first quarter and a net loss of $2.1 billion in the year-ago second quarter. It also requested no additional federal aid and said it would pay a $1.8 billion dividend to the federal government. 
''We've have had two very good quarters,'' Timothy J. Mayopoulos, who became Fannie Mae's chief executive in June, said in an interview. ''In the longer term, we're encouraged by what we see, but it's going to be driven by factors that are bigger than we are,'' including unemployment and consumer confidence.
The mortgage giants have moved into the black as American home prices have increased, delinquency rates have continued to fall and what analysts have cautiously described as a housing recovery has begun to take hold.
This week, CoreLogic, a real estate data firm, said that home prices rose 2.5 percent in June compared with a year ago. There has also been a surge in refinancing, as homeowners have taken advantage of record low interest rates.
''At the halfway point, 2012 is increasingly looking like the year that the residential housing market may have turned the corner,'' Anand K. Nallathambi, CoreLogic's president, said in a statement. ''While first-half gains have given way to second-half declines over the past three years, we see encouraging signs that modest price gains are supportable across the country in the second half of 2012.''
Both mortgage financiers said that loans made during the housing bubble -- loans on which homeowners were more likely to default -- were becoming smaller proportions of their portfolios. That means that the two mortgage giants expect smaller losses on bad loans and better earnings on good ones.
Freddie said loans that originated from 2005 to 2008 accounted for about a quarter of their portfolio of single-family mortgages, and loans originated after 2008 were more than half.
Housing experts caution that the increase in home prices might not augur a housing turnaround -- and that further losses might still lie ahead for the Washington-based mortgage financiers. Though prices increased in June, home sales declined by 5.6 percent, the largest drop in 16 months, according to Capital Economics.
The housing recovery is held back by broader economic sluggishness, analysts said. Unemployment remains stuck above 8 percent. Wage growth is sluggish. Many American households are saddled with debt. Consumer confidence is low. That means relatively few families have the means or the desire to invest in a new house.
''It's too early to declare a national housing recovery,'' said Mr. Mayopoulos. ''The second half of the year is not likely to be as strong as the first half of the year. A big part of results we're seeing came from a significant increase in home prices -- and it is not clear to us that we'll see further sustained increase in home prices for the next few quarters.''
Combined, Fannie and Freddie own or guarantee about $5 trillion in American home mortgages, half of the overall market. The two financiers buy mortgages from lending banks, group them together into bonds and then sell the bonds to investors -- along with a guarantee to cover losses.
Those guarantees meant that Fannie and Freddie started to hemorrhage money when real estate prices started to collapse in 2006. Millions of American homeowners went into foreclosure, requiring huge payouts from the financiers and necessitating a government takeover in September 2008.
Fannie and Freddie have required about $190 billion in federal assistance. They have paid back about $46 billion in dividend payments.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Timothy J. Mayopoulos, above, is Fannie Mae's chief. At right, a Freddie Mac employee at a homeowners' workshop in Maryland. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER SPIELMANN
 MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); PRICE INCREASES (86%); PRICE CHANGES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); CORELOGIC INC (54%)

TICKER: CLGX (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (54%); NAICS524127 DIRECT TITLE INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (54%); SIC6361 TITLE INSURANCE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



297 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM EUROPE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Still Learning About Asia

BYLINE: By DIDI KIRSTEN TATLOW

 BODY:
DUBLIN -- Anyone seeking a reliable gauge of European influence in Asia need only check out the Juventus jerseys at this coming Saturday's Supercoppa clash in the Bird's Nest Olympic stadium in Beijing, the Manchester United fans thronging the bars of Clarke Quay in Singapore or the well-thumbed newspaper devoted to soccer on the seat next to the driver in a Yangon cab.''If the United States has Hollywood'' to win hearts and minds in Asia, ''then Europe has the Champions League, the soccer. It's huge here,'' said Ronan Lenihan, a Singapore-based project executive with the Asia-Europe Foundation and a co-author of ''Asia in the Eyes of Europe: Images of a Rising Giant,'' a new book from the German Council on Foreign Relations that explores how Europeans view Asia. 
Asians' love affair with European soccer is increasingly backed by cash. They are investing in the game that Europe does so well, with the latest indication last week when the state-owned China Railway Construction Corp. announced that its subsidiary, China Railway 15th Bureau Group, was in talks with Inter Milan, the storied European club, to build a home stadium for the Italians by 2017. The growing list of Asian investors or investor hopefuls in European soccer now includes the Chinese, Thais, Malaysians, Hong Kongers and Singaporeans.
Mr. Lenihan said that in Thailand, soccer ''was one of the main things that resonated with people.'' Elsewhere, he said, ''Malaysian money now owns two clubs in the U.K.,'' and ''there was this Singapore bid for Liverpool,'' when the businessman Peter Lim tried to buy the Merseyside club in 2010. Additionally, Birmingham City is owned by Carson Yeung, a Hong Kong billionaire.
Europeans are slowly adjusting their view of Asia, said Mr. Lenihan. Yet for now, they still know too little about this large and diverse continent, he said.
''I think Europeans are only starting to catch up now in terms of their knowledge of Asia,'' he said. ''There is this idea of a rising Asia and greater interest.''
The book goes further, saying in its introduction that many Europeans have only a vague notion of Asia, seeing it as ''probably the most mysterious of continents.'' Asia is ''a relatively hazy blind spot in Europe's mental map of the world,'' the authors wrote, a result partly of its enormous ethnic, religious and political diversity. For their part, Asians have long known far more about Europe, said Mr. Lenihan, a legacy of hundreds of years of European colonial rule in parts of the continent.
Others, principally Asians, say some arrogance lies behind Europe's lack of information. That view is suggested by a separate study of Asian perceptions of Europe by the foundation, which is part of the Asia-Europe Meeting, an inter-regional forum that includes the European Commission, the secretariat of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, and 46 European and Asian nations.
In surveys for the study of how Europeans view Asia, conducted in eight E.U. nations, key words used by participants included Orientalist clichs like ''exotic'' but also, more fact-based, ''far away.''
Many Europeans regarded Asia as having a ''strong economy'' and ''cheap trade'' and being ''overpopulated.'' Other terms included ''poor,'' ''floods'' and ''tsunami,'' as well as ''developing,'' ''exporters'' and ''money.'' Food figured highly, with ''spices'' and ''rice'' common choices, as were the admiring terms ''history'' and ''culture.''
Over all, attitudes were positive, said Mr. Lenihan, and, in the introduction, the authors, drawn from a range of universities and the foundation, wrote: ''Our findings suggest that Europeans expect Asia to play an increasingly prominent role throughout the 21st century.''
Yet despite that and despite the power of soccer friendships, there is also discomfort at Asia's rise.
''What Europeans mean and understand by 'Asia's rise' is the emergence of a global economic and demographic threat, societies that face severe difficulties and suffering from dictatorship to natural disaster, and an increasing political influence that is strictly limited to individual Asian countries like China, India and Japan,'' the authors wrote.
Meanwhile, Massimo Moratti, owner of Inter Milan, is happy about the future, now that Chinese money seems to be on board.
Inter Milan didn't identify who was involved, saying only on its Web site that it was ''Chinese investors.''
''The Moratti family will keep the control of the company while the group of Chinese investors will became the second-largest shareholder,'' it said.
China's state-owned railway construction companies, which have been hit by a slowing economy at home and by scandals that have included the fall of the railway minister on corruption charges and a fatal high-speed train crash last year, are seeking opportunities abroad with renewed vigor. The new stadium at San Donato in Milan will be one of the biggest in Europe, according to CCTV, the state broadcaster.
But the deal isn't just about hardware. Chinese soccer is in a pitiable state because of endemic corruption and a lack of professionalism, and there are plans for Italy, home to some of the world's greatest teams, to train Chinese players, especially young ones, in the new stadium, CCTV reported. An opportunity to deepen friendship between Asia and Europe, perhaps.
''We can provide some experience for China, especially the successful experience on Italian football,'' Mr. Moratti said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (91%); OLYMPICS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); WRITERS (76%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (71%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (54%); INFRASTRUCTURE (54%)

COMPANY: MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (58%); CHINA RAILWAY CONSTRUCTION CORP LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%)

TICKER: MANU (NYSE) (58%); 1186 (HKSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (58%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (58%); NAICS237990 OTHER HEAVY & CIVIL ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION (58%); NAICS237110 WATER & SEWER LINE & RELATED STRUCTURES CONSTRUCTION (58%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE, SINGAPORE (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (79%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (79%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) EUROPE (98%); ASIA (98%); CHINA (94%); SINGAPORE (94%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); THAILAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



298 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: Macy's, After Strong Results, Raises Outlook

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Macy's reported a nearly 16 percent increase in net income for its second quarter on Wednesday, helped by cost-cutting and its strategy to tailor its merchandise to local markets.The company, which operates its namesake and Bloomingdale's department stores, also raised its annual earnings guidance. 
Macy's is the first in a series of major retailers to report quarterly results that will provide insight into how Americans are spending. The results from Macy's may reassure economists concerned that shoppers may pull back just as the back-to-school selling season begins.
Like many department stores, Macy's suffered during the recession. But the retailer has been able to navigate through the slow recovery better than rivals like J.C. Penney and Kohl's. Macy's, however, acknowledged continued economic challenges.
''Clearly, we are not operating in an ideal macroeconomic environment,'' Karen M. Hoguet, Macy's chief financial officer, told analysts during a conference call on Wednesday. ''Issues like unemployment and housing prices continue to be on the minds of our customers.''
Macy's also conceded business was hurt in the second quarter by lower spending by international tourists and temporary disruptions related to major renovation of its flagship store in Manhattan.
The company said its net income rose to $279 million, or 67 cents a share, for the three-month period ended July 28. That's up from $241 million, or 55 cents a share, in the year-ago period. Revenue rose 3 percent to $6.12 billion from $5.94 billion a year ago.
Analysts surveyed by FactSet had expected earnings of 64 cents a share on revenue of $6.13 billion.
Revenue at stores open at least a year, an important gauge in measuring a retailer's health, also rose 3 percent, helped by surging online sales. Sales have been uneven, with June's sales below expectations followed by a July rebound, Ms. Hoguet said.
Macy's also said it expected its earnings for the full year to be in the range of $3.30 to $3.35 a share, an increase from its previous guidance of $3.25 to $3.30.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (53%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%); HOME PRICES (52%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (51%)

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (95%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



299 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Dow Rises for a 4th Day, But Investors Are Cautious

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose less than a point on Wednesday, but extended a streak of gains to a fourth day in a thinly traded session.Expectations for stimulus from the European Central Bank and the United States Federal Reserve led to the recent gains, but investors found little reason to keep pushing stocks up after driving the market to three-month highs.
The three major stock indexes opened lower but recovered at midday, led by consumer staples and health care. Both are defensive plays, an indication that investors are keeping their enthusiasm in check. 
''It's very positive that we found better footing throughout the session, which indicates that the market's path of least resistance is higher,'' said Jeff Mortimer, director of investment strategy for BNY Mellon Wealth Management in Boston.
The hope for central bank action comes amid projections of poor growth for coming quarters.
In a sign of weakening demand, McDonald's fell 1.7 percent to $87.53 after reporting flat same-store sales in July, the worst performance for the Dow component in more than nine years.
''The idea that Europe will remove itself from the brink is clearly contributing to the tone in markets. There's a feeling that central banks will do whatever it takes to provide liquidity, should things get worse,'' Mr. Mortimer said.
The Bank of England gave little indication that it would rush to pour in further stimulus even as it sharply cut its forecast for medium-term economic growth in Britain. France's central bank forecast a contraction in growth going into the third quarter, citing weak demand from southern Europe and from Britain.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 7.04 points, or 0.05 percent, to 13,175.64. The S.& P. 500 edged up just 0.87 of a point, or 0.06 percent, to finish at 1,402.22. But the Nasdaq composite index slipped 4.61 points, or 0.15 percent, to end at 3,011.25.
Spanish benchmark 10-year debt yields briefly rose above 7 percent, underscoring the cautious tone from investors recently disappointed by lack of coordination from European officials in their efforts to reignite the economy.
Markets are pricing in the idea that it might take time until Spain asks for a bailout, which would open the door for intervention from the European Central Bank.
Volume was light Wednesday, with about 5.72 billion shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange and Nasdaq, well below last year's daily average of 7.84 billion.
The consumer discretionary sector was the day's weakest, falling 0.4 percent as Ralph Lauren and the travel Web sites Priceline and Orbitz both forecast slowing demand because of the global slowdown.
Ralph Lauren shares fell 1.1 percent to $151.35. Orbitz sank 25.5 percent to $3.47 and Priceline was down 17.3 percent to $562.32.
Shares of Dean Foods, which is spinning off a unit, rose 40.6 percent to $17.46 a day after posting a stronger-than-expected quarterly profit.
The stock of MEMC Electronic Materials, a maker of silicon wafers, shot up nearly 11 percent to $2.28 after it reported a surprising profit on an adjusted basis for its most recent quarter.
Interest rates were steady. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 6/32, to 100 29/32, and the yield rose to 1.65 percent from 1.63 percent late Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); SAME STORE SALES (73%); RETAIL SALES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (68%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (73%); BANK OF ENGLAND (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); NYSE MKT LLC (51%); ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (58%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); OWW (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (50%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (50%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%); SPAIN (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



300 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: With Rates Low For Home Loans, Bankers Cash In

BYLINE: By PETER EAVIS

 BODY:
Interest rates on mortgages and refinancing are at record lows, giving borrowers plenty to celebrate. But the bigger winners are the banks making the loans.Banks are making unusually large gains on mortgages because they are taking profits far higher than the historical norm, analysts say. That 3.55 percent rate for a 30-year mortgage could be closer to 3.05 percent if banks were satisfied with the profit margins of just a few years ago. The lower rate would save a borrower about $30,000 in interest payments over the life of a $300,000 mortgage.
"The banks may say, 'We are offering you record low interest rates, so you should be as happy as a clam,' " said Guy D. Cecala, publisher of Inside Mortgage Finance, a home loan publication. "But borrowers could be getting them cheaper."
Mortgage bankers acknowledge that they are realizing big gains right now from home loans. But they say they cannot afford to cut rates even more because of the higher expenses resulting from stiffer regulations. 
"There is a much higher cost to originating mortgages relative to a few years ago," said Jay Brinkmann, chief economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association, a group that represents the interests of mortgage lenders.
The jump in revenue for the banks is not coming from charging consumers higher fees. Instead, it comes from the their role as middlemen. Banks make their money from taking the mortgages and bundling them into bonds that they then sell to investors, like pensions and mutual funds. The higher the mortgage rate paid by homeowners and the lower the interest paid on the bonds, the bigger the profit for the bank.
Mortgage lenders may also be benefiting from less competition. The upheaval of the financial crisis of 2008 has led to the concentration of mortgage lending in the hands of a few big banks, primarily Wells Fargo, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and U.S. Bancorp.
"Fewer players in the mortgage origination business means higher profit margins for the remaining ones," said Stijn Van Nieuwerburgh, director of the Center for Real Estate Finance Research at New York University.
Mary Eshet, a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo, said the mortgage business remains competitive. "The only way we can effectively grow our business and deliver great service to customers is by offering market competitive rates," she said.
The other three banks declined to comment. But the banks are benefiting from the higher mortgage gains. Wells Fargo reported $4.8 billion in revenue from its mortgage origination business in the first six months of the year, an increase of 155 percent from $1.9 billion in the first six months of 2011. JPMorgan Chase and U.S. Bancorp, the other big lenders, are also reporting very high levels of mortgage origination revenue. Wells Fargo made 31 percent of all mortgages in the 12 months through June, according to data from Inside Mortgage Finance.
"One of the reasons that the banks charge more is that they can," said Thomas Lawler, a former chief economist of Fannie Mae and founder of Lawler Economic and Housing Consulting, a housing analysis firm.
The banks are well positioned to profit because of their role in the mortgage market. After they bundle the mortgages into bonds, the banks transfer nearly all of the loans to government-controlled entities like Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. The entities, in turn, guarantee the bond investors a steady stream of payments.
The banks that originated the loans take the guaranteed bonds, called mortgage-backed securities, and sell them to investors. The banks nearly always book a profit when the bonds are sold.
The mortgage industry has a yardstick for measuring the size of those profits. It compares the mortgage rates paid by borrowers and the interest rate on the mortgage bond - a difference known in the industry as the spread.
For example, a bank may lend money to homeowners at a 3.6 percent interest rate. After bundling those mortgages, the bank may then sell them in bonds that have an interest rate of 2.8 percent. The lower interest rate on the bond shows that the banks are effectively able to sell the mortgages to investors for a gain.
The banks pocket that markup when they sell the bonds. The bigger the spread between the mortgage rate and the bond rate, the bigger the markup for the banks.
Mortgage analysts who track this difference say it has been historically high in recent months. They contend that if the market were functioning properly, the recent drop in the bond rates should have led to a larger decline in mortgage rates for consumers than has actually occurred. .
Instead, the difference between the two rates is increasing: mortgage rates are falling much more slowly than the bond interest rates.
In the six months through June, the average difference between the two rates was 1.1 percent, and at the start of this month it was 1.26 percent. From 2000 to 2010, it was about 0.5 percent.
If banks offered mortgages with an interest rate that was half a percentage point lower - a move that would leave their mortgage gains closer to the historical levels of 0.5 percent - borrowers would see real savings.
Bankers say they need the extra mortgage revenue to cover new costs. As a result of more stringent conditions since the housing bust, bankers are required to be more diligent in approving loan applications. The banks say this requires better-trained employees and other added expenses. If Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac find flaws in the loan applications, they ask the banks to buy back the faulty loans, which can be expensive for the lenders.
"Fannie and Freddie are requiring zero-error loans," said Tom Deutsch, executive director of the American Securitization Forum, a group that represents financial firms active in the mortgage market.
But Mr. Lawler, the housing analyst, is somewhat skeptical about the banks' fears about the costs of buybacks. "If banks do their job properly, there should be little buyback risk," he said.
The failure of mortgage rates to fall further poses a quandary for the government entities like the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department, which have spent hundreds of billions of dollars to help make home loans cheaper.
"Policy makers get a little frustrated that they are not getting all the bang for their buck that they could," said Mr. Lawler.
If the Federal Reserve bought more mortgage bonds in the market, it could actually increase banks' mortgage profits, since such buying could drive down bond rates and increase the size of the markup banks take when they sell their mortgages.
It is hard to see how this situation can change in favor of lower rates for consumers. The banks are finding plenty of consumers wanting mortgage loans at current rates, and bond investors are happy to pay whatever low rate is offered.
And regulators, who are loath to dictate business practices, are unlikely to force banks to lower mortgage rates.
Still, the housing market would benefit if rates to consumers fell in tandem with the bond rates, said Mr. Van Nieuwerburgh of New York University.
"The relatively high mortgage rates do not help the housing recovery because they make it harder for new homeowners to get on the housing ladder and because they make refinancing relatively less attractive," he said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Capital One Bank branch in Manhattan displays interest rate offerings. Banks are taking bigger profits even as they charge lower lending rates, rates that analysts say could be even lower. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B9) CHARTS: Mortgage rates have fallen . . .
. . . but bond rates have fallen even more . . .
. . . creating larger profit margins for originators . . .
. . . raising revenue at big banks like Wells Fargo. (Sources: Freddie Mac
Bloomberg
 Wells Fargo) (B9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (93%); MORTGAGE BANKING (91%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (65%); MUTUAL FUNDS (64%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (86%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); U S BANCORP (65%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); INSIDE MORTGAGE FINANCE PUBLICATIONS INC (56%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (86%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); USB (NYSE) (65%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (86%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (86%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



301 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Suburban Taxpayers Vote to Support Detroit Museum

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
The Detroit Institute of Arts was saved from devastating budget cuts Tuesday night after voters in three Michigan counties agreed to institute a property tax increase earmarked specifically for the museum.The levy -- known as a millage tax -- is expected to raise $23 million a year and put the arts institute on secure financial footing for the first time in two decades. In exchange residents of the contributing counties -- Wayne (which includes Detroit) and its suburban neighbors Macomb and Oakland -- will receive free museum admission. The new funds will also support extra programming for older visitors and students, and expand operating hours.
''We are thrilled,'' said Graham W. J. Beal, the institute's director, who gathered with supporters at the museum Tuesday night to await the count and then celebrate the proposal's passage. 
The institute now becomes one of a handful of American museums, including the Minneapolis Institute of Arts and the St. Louis Art Museum, that rely on property taxes for a portion of their revenues. But Detroit's is unusual among major urban museums because it does not have a large endowment and receives no financial support from either the city or the state.
As a result the museum's leaders felt they had to ask taxpayers if they would be willing to pay to support its mission. Though they answered yes, Christine Anagnos, executive director of the Association of Art Museum Directors, said Tuesday night's vote does not presage broader change. ''I think Detroit is a special situation,'' she said, referring to the complete withdrawal of government funds. ''I don't think this is a trend.''
The institute's holdings range from ancient Egyptian, Greek and Roman artifacts to contemporary American masterpieces. But starting two decades ago both Michigan and the city of Detroit began withdrawing their financial support, and neither money drawn from the institution's endowment or operating revenues could keep pace. Admissions and food and merchandise sales generate about $3.5 million a year, or just 15 percent of the annual budget.
Last month The Detroit Free Press noted that all of the city's cultural institutions have traditionally been underendowed and suggested that was possibly a side effect of the ''new-model mentality of the auto industry,'' which encouraged yearly rather than long-term donations.
The institute underwent a major renovation in 2007 only to experience a severe round of cutbacks two years later, when it reduced its operating budget from $34 million to $25.4 million and eliminated more than 60 full- and part-time positions, or nearly 20 percent of its work force.
The millage tax takes advantage of the fact that the vast majority of the institute's 400,000 yearly visitors -- 79 percent -- live in one of the three counties. The 0.2-mill tax will last for 10 years and will cost each homeowner approximately $15 a year for every $150,000 of a home's fair market value, according to a fact sheet put out by the arts institute. A designated tax to support the Detroit Zoo was approved by county voters in 2008.
Kaywin Feldman, the director of the Minneapolis Institute of Arts, which receives 42 percent of its budget from a similar property tax in Hennepin County, said the millage ''has been a part of the story of the success of the museum all along.''
In St. Louis the Metropolitan Zoological Park and Museum District supports five institutions. ''This is a firm commitment from taxpayers, and is much more stable,'' said J. Patrick Dougherty, the district's executive director. He said the millage tax there has escaped the sort of anti-tax opposition found elsewhere.
Over the next decade the Detroit Institute of Arts will focus on building its $98 million endowment to $400 million, a goal museum officials concede is ambitious, particularly given the uncertain state of the economy.
The museum, which raised $2.5 million to campaign for the tax, emphasized the economic benefits, noting that the institute spent more than $7 million on goods and services in Wayne, Oakland and Macomb Counties last year.
The city technically owns the institute's Beaux-Arts building and more than 60,000-piece collection, which includes Diego Rivera's monumental frescoes, and works by Andy Warhol, Alexander Calder, Rembrandt, Rubens, Monet, Cezanne, van Gogh, Munch and more. In handouts museum officials noted that selling art to support operating costs violates accepted museum practices. The city is also prohibited from selling any part of the collection.
Pam Marcil, the institute's director of public relations, said the museum expects to see proceeds from the new tax in January.
On Wednesday morning Mr. Beal said that the museum was immediately fulfilling its pledge to offer county residents free entry. He invited them over to see the museum's current exhibition of works by Picasso and Matisse, and glimpse a rare Vermeer, ''Woman Holding a Balance,'' on loan from the National Gallery of Art in Washington.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Property taxes are now part of the museum's revenue. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SANCYA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(C1)
 The museum's Beaux-Arts building holds more than 60,000 pieces, including works by Rembrandt and van Gogh. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFFREY SAUGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); TRENDS (78%); CLASSICS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); LABOR FORCE (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



302 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: $1 Million Each Year for All, As Long as Tribe's Luck Holds

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS

 BODY:
SHAKOPEE MDEWAKANTON INDIAN RESERVATION, Minn. -- A generation ago, the Shakopee Mdewakanton tribe lived in a motley collection of beat-up trailer homes, melting snow for bath water when wells froze over because they lacked indoor plumbing. Three-quarters of tribal members received government food supplements.Today, the Shakopee Mdewakanton are believed to be the richest tribe in American history as measured by individual personal wealth: Each adult, according to court records and confirmed by one tribal member, receives a monthly payment of around $84,000, or $1.08 million a year.
The financial success of the 480 members of the Shakopee Tribe -- whose ancestors 150 years ago were hunted down, slaughtered and eventually exiled from Minnesota -- derives from their flourishing casino and resort operation, which on weekends swells the population of their tiny reservation to the size of a city.
''We have 99.2 percent unemployment,'' Stanley R. Crooks, the tribe's president, said as he smiled during a rare interview. ''It's entirely voluntary.'' 
While the Shakopee tribe continues to prosper, casino gambling in much of Indian Country -- which tribes say is the only economic development tool that has ever worked on reservations -- has in recent months come increasingly under threat, stirring worries that the long lucky streak is over.
The primary anxiety is competing casinos being hurriedly opened by states in pursuit of new revenue. But more menacing, tribes say, is a sophisticated and growing movement to legalize Internet gambling under state laws that would give those states the potential power to regulate and tax online gambling even on reservations.
Further, the current expansion of legalized gambling in the United States, and the prospect of more to come, could not have arrived at a worse moment for tribes, because after 25 years of booming profits, the tribal casino business has suddenly gone flat. The vast majority of tribes have not become rich. Instead, casinos have become a baseline economic necessity, lifting thousands out of poverty by serving as a primary source of income and employment.
''My worry is this may be the beginning of the end, that in the push to increase state and federal revenue we are putting at risk the groups who continue to need Indian gaming,'' said Kathryn Rand, co-director of the Institute for the Study of Tribal Gaming at the University of North Dakota. During the past year or so, Maine, Ohio, Kansas and Pennsylvania have all opened large casinos, and in Maryland, pent-up demand caused a traffic snarl miles long-- during the middle of the night -- at the opening of a new casino in June.
Among other states, Massachusetts recently approved casino gambling and New York is moving in that direction. In November, Oregon voters will decide whether to open their first casinos while Michigan voters will determine whether to expand gambling there as well.
While the new commercial casinos turn over much of their revenue to state and local governments, tribal facilities do not pay direct state taxes because of the tribes' status as sovereign nations.
That status, however, has become a concern for tribes as it relates to legalized online gambling, which is expected to transform the industry by allowing people to play casino games like poker on mobile devices whenever and wherever they want.
Attempts by some states to tax all online gambling revenue, which tribes regard as an unacceptable violation of their sovereign status, have set up a collision course. ''We are very adamant that people understand we are governments, and expect to be treated like governments,'' said Ernie Stevens Jr., chairman of the National Indian Gaming Association.
Delaware, in June, became the first state to legalize casino-style gambling on the Internet, a move that followed a Justice Department interpretation last December that opened the door to online gambling. All this has come as unwelcome news in the $26 billion tribal gambling industry. In recent years, a number of casinos have closed, the days of building elaborate new complexes appears to have ended, and efforts to build new casinos off reservation -- and nearer metropolitan areas -- has proved largely unsuccessful.
Even some of the most successful gambling tribes have had to reduce or eliminate gambling revenue payments to members.
The Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation in Ledyard, Conn., for instance, has stopped making individual awards that had once been as high as $120,000 a year after it amassed $2 billion in debt. And members of the Mohegan tribe in Uncasville, Conn., who operate Mohegan Sun, had been receiving about $360,000 annually before seeing significant reductions in recent years.
Gambling analysts say the coming wave of casualties will most likely be Indian casinos in remote areas that make little money but employ dozens of tribal members and use gambling proceeds to pay for social services. The Shakopees are under no such pressure. While it is impossible to say for certain whether individual tribal members are indeed the nation's richest based on their monthly income -- derived from the tribe's two casinos, championship golf course, big-name concert acts, 600-room hotel and other business ventures -- each adult earns enough each year to be a millionaire.
But for the tribe, whose purple casino buses are as common a sight in the Twin Cities as summer mosquitoes, any significant downturn in profits would spread economic pain in a fairly wide arc.
Since 1996, the tribe has donated $243.5 million, including $120 million to poorer tribes, and lent $478.5 million.
It is Scott County's largest employer, and has contributed tens of millions of dollars for roads and to schools and hospitals. ''We're doing very well,'' Mr. Crooks said. ''We feel we have an obligation to help others. It's part of our culture.''
Measuring the tribe's charity however, is difficult because the amount it doles out to members is secret. (The $84,000 a month figure that each adult in the tribe receives comes from a 2004 divorce case involving a tribal member, but was confirmed by a current tribal member as still correct.)
Alan Meister, an economist who compiles tribal gambling data, said Minnesota's 18 tribal casinos earned a combined $1.4 billion in 2010, although the Shakopees' portion of that is unclear. But even if the tribe accounted for nearly the entire $1.4 billion, its philanthropy would compare well with corporations, even though the tribe receives no tax write-offs for giving.
For example, the tribe's $28.5 million in charitable cash contributions in 2010 was more than those of several Minneapolis-area Fortune 500 companies, including the 3M Corporation, which had 2010 revenue of $23 billion, and U.S. Bancorp, which had $19.5 billion in revenue in 2010, according to the Minnesota Council on Foundations.
Despite its wealth, however, the Shakopee reservation has few mansion-size homes, although most families have at least one high-end car in the driveway. Many tribal members own large second homes off the reservation and nearly everyone sends children to private schools. Expensive hobbies like thoroughbred breeding, big game hunting and elaborate trips -- which sometimes last for months -- are common.
Families say it is difficult to teach children the value of money when everyone knows no one will likely ever need to work.
''Why dig a hole when you don't need to dig it -- when you can pay someone to dig a hole?'' said Keith B. Anderson, the tribe's secretary and treasurer, who once worked for Target as an industrial designer. ''Instead of budgeting a dinner and movie, you can go to dinner and a movie and have dinner again and see another movie, but you can't see enough movies and dinners to spend all your money.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Zeke Brewer and his daughter, Jazlyn, on the reservation. (A1)
The Shakopee Mdewakanton Indian Reservation golf course. ''We have 99.2 percent unemployment,'' the tribe's president said.
The Mystic Lake Casino swells the population of the reservation to the size of a city on weekends.
 The garage, above left, of Brian Welch, a tribe member, holds many of the deer and elk he has hunted over the years. Portraits of the tribe's business council are placed at the entrance of many of the businesses and buildings on the reservation. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENN ACKERMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) MAPS (A4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (92%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); GAMING (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); HISTORY (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); APPROVALS (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



303 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Uncertainty Of Operatic Proportions

BYLINE: By ZACHARY WOOLFE

 BODY:
''The new normal?'' Speight Jenkins, the general director of the Seattle Opera, repeated the question I had just asked him over the telephone. He paused for a moment.''No, I won't accept that,'' he said. ''As an American and as a general director I can't accept that.''
The question was whether the current state of the economy is serious but temporary, or whether it represents a permanent change in the ambitions and expectations of American opera companies. Opera moves slowly, with programs mapped out years in advance, so the coming season may be the first planned entirely amid economic uncertainty. And if you look around the country, much of the landscape is saddening.
Seattle's situation is among the most acute, though troubles face almost every company in the country. But Mr. Jenkins has a longer perspective on it than most, having led the company since 1983. 
In 2003 he signed a 10-year contract extension, and the company knew that it would be undergoing a difficult transition to a new director around this time. What it couldn't have known then was that its shift in leadership would occur in the worst economic environment for arts organizations in decades.
It became clear over the last year that Seattle's financial situation, which had worsened since 2008, was serious, and that the company would end the 2011-12 season with a rare shortfall: approximately $1 million in a budget of about $20 million.
In the language of the news release that the company issued on June 26, it is ''reshaping for a leaner economy.'' Translated into English, it is desperate.
The Seattle Opera -- which, reflecting Mr. Jenkins's interests, has made a specialty of Wagner -- has worked hard to ensure that next summer's ''Ring'' cycles will go on as scheduled. But during the 2013-14 season the company will mount just three productions, rather than its standard five, and in the summer of 2014 it will present an iteration of its International Wagner Competition instead of a previously announced production of Wagner's ''Meistersinger von Nrnberg.'' In 2014-15, and for the foreseeable future, the plan is for four-production seasons.
Perhaps most ominous, the company's well-regarded young artists program will produce a concert rather than a full opera production during the coming season. Led by the singer and director Peter Kazaras, who has been mentioned as a potential replacement for Mr. Jenkins, the program will then go on hiatus in 2013-14.
Its long-term future is uncertain. ''Assuming economic recovery and community support,'' the news release says, ''the Young Artists Program may re-emerge in future seasons.''
These changes are all on top of the usual cuts in salaries, artist fees and staff, though two new positions will be added to focus on fund-raising and major gifts, part of the depressing nationwide shift of resources from artistic matters to marketing and development.
Even though a meeting of the company's board on Tuesday yielded word that the budget shortfall would be somewhat smaller than anticipated, those new development officers may well be necessary. Mr. Jenkins said a drop in large donations was the main source of the crisis, along with the shedding of the subscriber rolls and increased difficulty in selling more expensive seats. This is the same situation that is affecting every arts institution, but in a company the size of Seattle's, there is a smaller cushion when the money dries up.
Even in companies that have not had -- or have not yet announced -- such an overt crisis, the operative word is caution. Next season at the Los Angeles Opera, which has presented some truly daring projects over the years, is about as disheartening as it gets: Mozart's ''Don Giovanni,'' Puccini's ''Madama Butterfly,'' Wagner's ''Flying Dutchman'' and Rossini's ''Cenerentola.'' The only rarity -- Verdi's ''Due Foscari'' -- has clearly been scheduled only because of the involvement of the company's general director, Plcido Domingo, who will sing the baritone role of the Doge.
The Lyric Opera of Chicago, historically one of the most important companies in America, has a 2012-13 season of astounding conservatism: a tour through the standards. The only opera from the last 100 years, the Rene Fleming vehicle ''A Streetcar Named Desire,'' by Andr Previn, hardly pushes boundaries. Worse, tickets for ''Streetcar'' are available only to subscribers, in an anxious ploy to retain the company's traditional base.
The company's general director, Anthony Freud, started last year after stints at the Welsh National Opera and the Houston Grand Opera, so this season was largely planned before his arrival.
''The titles of the coming season,'' he said in a telephone interview, ''are titles I inherited.''
From his past work elsewhere there is reason to hope that Mr. Freud can pull Chicago into the 20th century, to say nothing of the 21st. But he is locked in his company's dependence on its subscriber rolls, which -- among the largest in the country -- pull it toward the path of least resistance. Though he called himself a ''terminal optimist,'' Mr. Freud had a different take from Mr. Jenkins on the ''new normal'' question.
''I have no doubt that a new normal will emerge that will be less volatile but very different than the economic world we left behind in 2008,'' he said.
So we may well be looking at many years of walking on eggshells. But the problems of opera in America predated the recession, and there's never good reason to wait to address them: the stagnant repertory; the necessity of big stars, like Mr. Domingo, to sell almost anything; the focus on escapism over innovation and relevance. There is lots of ''Aida,'' lots of ''Turandot,'' even at companies, like the Minnesota Opera, that use their limited resources to advocate for new work and thoughtful theater.
What Minnesota has is, in Minneapolis and St. Paul, an audience that is used to adventurous culture. It remains to be seen what other parts of the country can bring to their opera companies, in terms of both their openness to new experiences and their dollars. The wording of Seattle's budget announcement was intentionally blunt to serve as a strong message to a city that should not take its opera's continued existence for granted.
''I can't say the money has flooded in,'' Mr. Jenkins said. ''But it's been helpful. And the support of the community has been strong.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Financially pressed American opera companies include the Seattle Opera. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS BENNION)(C1)
 The Seattle Opera's ''Rheingold'' in 2009 with, from left, Gordon Hawkins, Andrea Silvestrelli, Greer Grimsley, Stephanie Blythe, Jason Collins and Marie Plette. It is to return next summer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROZARII LYNCH)(C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%) WASHINGTON, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



304 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: In London, Censure of an Elite Bank Draws Harrumphs

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
LONDON -- In this summer of revelations about bad behavior by British financial institutions, bashing the banks has been London's other Olympic sport.But now that a state regulator in New York has accused Standard Chartered, one of London's most reputable banks, of colluding with Iran, Britain seems to be drawing a line against what many here consider American overreaching.
On Wednesday, even Mervyn A. King, the central bank governor who has been one of the industry's harshest scolds, seemed to defend Standard Chartered against the New York allegation that it had schemed with the Iranian government to launder billions of dollars for the potential support of terrorist activities.
''All that the U.K, authorities would ask is that the various regulatory bodies that are investigating a particular case try to work together and refrain from making too many public statements until the investigation is completed,'' Mr. King said at a news conference. ''That seems to me the appropriate time to make clear what the judgment is and what the punishment is.'' 
It was a notable demand for forbearance from Mr. King, who in June played the leading role in forcing the Barclays chief executive, Robert E. Diamond Jr., to resign after regulators in the United States and Britain implicated the bank in a rate-fixing scandal involving the London interbank offered rate, or Libor.
And John Mann, perhaps the most strident critic of Britain's banking culture in Parliament, said in an interview on Wednesday that the Standard Chartered allegations reflected an anti-Britain bias by American regulators, who he said were trying to bolster Wall Street at the expense of the City of London.
''I am no apologist for British banking, but if this attempt to blame London succeeds it will give comfort to all the banks breaking the rules in the United States,'' said Mr. Mann, who is a member of the parliamentary committee that will broadly scrutinize British banking behavior after the Barclays episode.
Bolstering such sentiments, in part, were reports that the censuring of Standard Chartered on Monday by the New York state regulator surprised not only the bank's executives but also stunned officials at the federal agencies investigating the bank, the Treasury and Justice Departments and the Federal Reserve. Some Treasury officials had reportedly concluded that while Standard Chartered's handling of Iranian transactions might have been questionable, they were not necessarily illegal.
Standard Chartered has strongly rebutted the accusations. The bank says that 99.9 percent of its transactions with Iran were above board and that it ceased all new business with Iranian customers more than five years ago. The bank says that the state's findings that it had violated American sanctions against Iran and other pariah nations for nearly a decade through 2010, handling $250 billion in transactions, ''are incorrect as a matter of law.''
It has been a summer of terrible discontent for Britain's banks, once seen as the powerhouse of its economy and a symbol of London's emergence as an entrept of global finance.
The Barclays scandal has stirred a public outrage so severe that some politicians are now pushing to remove the bright blue Barclays trademark from London's popular public bicycle program.
Then came United States Senate accusations that the global banking giant HSBC had conducted business with terrorists -- activities for which HSBC has apologized. The bank has set aside more than $700 million against potential fines and sanctions.
The underlying note in all of this has been rumbling public frustration that Britain's banks are not lending as much as they might, thus delaying an economic recovery that -- as Mr. King also announced on Wednesday -- seems to be losing steam by the day.
But the latest regulatory broadside from Benjamin M. Lawsky, head of the New York State Department of Financial Services, is being seen as a salvo too far.
''To describe Standard Chartered as a 'rogue' institution is factually wrong -- if anything, compared to the problems other banks face, they are an outlier,'' Mr. Mann said.
Mr. Mann, who during the rate-fixing hearings last month referred to Barclays as a ''rotten, thieving bank,'' said it was the inflammatory language of Mr. Lawsky's complaint that gave him pause.
To some extent, it is a matter of injured British pride. If the country's banks are to be criticized to such a degree, it is deemed better to have a notable body inflict the flogging -- such as the Commodities Futures Trading Commission in the case of Barclays, and the United States Senate for HSBC.
An attack on British banks from a provincial New York regulator has raised suspicions that Wall Street is looking to give the City of London a good kicking now that it's down -- and perhaps secure a bit of its international business as well.
''There would obviously be a benefit for U.S. banks, many of which are based in New York,'' said Ian Gordon, a bank analyst in London for Investec Securities. ''And the question many investors are asking is, why has there not been any similar scrutiny for U.S. banks? People are just stunned.''
Part of the puzzlement comes from the target: Standard Chartered has until now been for the most part scandal-free. Although not well known in the United States, the bank has attained an elite reputation here for a strong run of impressive profit that has contrasted sharply with the financial struggles of its rivals. Just last week Standard Chartered reported an 11.3 percent rise in net profit for the first half of the year, to $2.86 billion.
And before Monday, its stock had been a top performer among European banks. But the shares were down 16 percent in the first three days this week, lopping about $10 billion off Standard Chartered's market value.
Without a prominent investment banking business or a large exposure to real estate in the United States and Europe, Standard Chartered has steered clear of many of the financial pitfalls that have hurt its peers in London and America. Instead it has focused on the steadier income and fees that come from providing loans and custodial banking services to countries in Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
During its earnings announcement last week, the bank's leadership promoted a culture of compliance and good conduct as one of its competitive advantages. Analysts suggested that bank executives would surely not have made such comments had they known that the bank would be charged a week later.
Typically, regulators give the targets of scrutiny fair warning.
''They had no idea this was coming, or they would have chosen their words differently,'' said Mr. Gordon, the bank analyst.
Not all critics of British banking are holding their fire.
Richard Murphy, a London-based authority on tax evasion and money laundering schemes, argues that the accusations against Standard Chartered highlight an arrogant assumption on the part of British banks that they are immune to global rules of best banking conduct.
''So what if a regulator is a bit of a lone wolf -- that just shows he is independent,'' Mr. Murphy said of Mr. Lawsky. ''This shows that there is a deep worry that institutions in London are ignoring the obligations of other regulatory environments. It is a tax haven mentality, and the U.S. has had enough of it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mervyn King, governor of the Bank of England who has been a harsh critic of banking in the past, seemed to defend Standard Chartered on Wednesday. (B1)
 London's financial center. Some officials accused United States regulators of being anti-British. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS RATCLIFFE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); OLYMPICS (79%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); SCANDALS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); TERRORISM (54%); INTERBANK LENDING (50%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (97%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2012



305 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: A Lax Banking Law Obscured Money Flow

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
The list of global banks that have been accused in recent years of laundering foreign transactions totaling billions of dollars has been growing -- Credit Suisse, Lloyds, Barclays, ING, HSBC -- and now Standard Chartered.The details in each case are different, with the international banks suspected of using their American subsidiaries to process tainted money for clients that included Iran, Cuba, North Korea, sponsors of terrorist groups and drug cartels.
What the cases have in common is that the accused banks took advantage of a law that was not changed until 2008 and that allowed banks to disguise client identities and move their money offshore. The cases, including one filed this week by New York's banking regulator against Standard Chartered, also cast a harsh light on just how much activity with Iran was permitted in the years leading up to 2008 and whether the practices had violated the spirit, if not the letter, of the law.
Foreign banks until 2008 were allowed to transfer money for Iranian clients through their American subsidiaries to a separate offshore institution. In the so-called U-turn transactions, the banks had to provide scant information about the client to their American units as long as they had thoroughly vetted the transactions for suspicious activity. Suspecting that Iranian banks were financing nuclear weapons and missile programs, the loophole was finally closed in 2008. 
The new money-laundering claims made by the New York Department of Financial Services against Standard Chartered are particularly embarrassing for the Treasury Department, because they show how, until 2008, foreign banks could collaborate with their Iranian clients to circumvent United States sanctions, said Jimmy Gurul, a former Treasury Department official who is a law professor at the University of Notre Dame.
Standard Chartered, as part of a strategy to ignore regulations imposed by a division of the Treasury Department, schemed with its Iranian clients to omit crucial details from money-transfer paperwork, according to a regulatory order filed Monday. An e-mail from a lawyer to bank executives in 2001 said that payment instructions for Iranian clients ''should not identify the client or the purpose of the payment,'' according to the order.
The strategy of masking client details was driven, in part, by a desire for speed, according to law enforcement officials involved in the money-laundering cases. Transactions with certain risky clients, like the Iranians, were subject to much more rigorous vetting. To avoid the holdup, the officials said, some foreign banks willfully removed the names.
Since January 2009, the Justice Department, Treasury and other government entities have brought charges against five foreign banks -- the British banks Lloyds and Barclays; the Dutch banks Credit Suisse and ABN Amro, now the Royal Bank of Scotland; and ING Bank of Amsterdam. The British bank HSBC is also under investigation by United States authorities for suspected money-laundering violations connected to Iran, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Cuba and North Korea, and the bank has set aside $700 million to cover potential fines.
The settlements with the five banks generally included deferred prosecution agreements along with a substantial forfeiture of assets comparable in size to the basket of illegal transactions the banks engaged in. The five cases, which resulted from bank actions from 1995 through 2007, produced forfeitures of $2.3 billion over the last three and a half years. About half of that money went to Treasury and half to other entities, including the Manhattan district attorney's office, which joined the Justice Department in most of the settlements.
So far, the Standard Chartered case is playing out entirely differently. To start with, action against the bank on Monday was brought by a single regulator, Benjamin M. Lawsky, a former prosecutor who now leads the New York Department of Financial Services. That is virtually unprecedented, since the vast majority of money-laundering charges come from regulators acting in concert.
The federal agencies are still investigating Standard Chartered and are debating just how expansive the suspected wrongdoing was. Mr. Lawsky claims the bank processed $250 billion in tainted money while cloaking the identities of its Iranian clients by stripping their names from paperwork. Some federal authorities, though, believe that the amount is closer to the $14 million that Standard Chartered acknowledges did not comply with regulations.
It is unclear whether the bank will settle with regulators or continue to fight. Standard Chartered must appear next week before Mr. Lawsky to explain the apparent violations and why it should not have its New York license revoked.
The divergent views on the bank's culpability stem, in part, from the murkiness of the law governing how foreign institutions processed transactions with Iran.
Until 2008, American economic sanctions had a large exception for Iran because the Middle Eastern nation had such a vast oil business with the United States. The loophole permitted the U-turn transactions, allowing foreign institutions to route money to a bank in the United States, which would then transfer the money immediately to a different foreign institution.
Since Monday, Standard Chartered has fiercely argued that its transactions on behalf of Iranian banks and corporations fell squarely within that loophole. But Mr. Lawsky is largely basing his case on claims that the bank violated the law by covering up the identity of its Iranian clients and thwarting American efforts to detect money laundering.
In the settlements with the five banks since 2009, federal authorities and the Manhattan prosecutor accused the banks of ''stripping'' identifying information from some of the transactions that would have shown they were subject to sanctions and should not be allowed.
For example, in Lloyds's $217 million settlement in 2009, senior bank managers warned colleagues in 2002 against ''stripping'' information from transactions referencing Iran, according to court records. In response, the records say, Lloyds simply began to ''instruct Iranian banks on how to 'clean' payment instructions in which they were the originating bank to avoid detection'' by Treasury Department filters.
The stripping constituted criminal conduct, the Justice Department said, when the transfers from sanctioned countries terminated in the United States -- rather than taking a U-turn and heading back offshore. By ending in America, the transactions were subjected to stricter security standards, law enforcement officials said. In a letter sent Wednesday from Adam J. Szubin, director of Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control, to Britain's Treasury office, the department explained its enforcement efforts both before and after the 2008 changes. Now, all cross-border transfers require ''the inclusion of complete originator and beneficiary information,'' according to the letter, which was obtained by The New York Times.
United States banks were involved in the pre-2008 transactions only as an intermediary, and American banks have generally not been charged with violations similar to those brought against the five foreign banks. Because American banks were prohibited from being the beginning or ending party in transactions involving Iran and other sanctioned countries, they would not have been involved in the conduct that got the foreign banks into trouble.
Since the tighter sanctions went into effect, there have been no charges brought on post-2008 conduct, although Treasury's letter says that investigations are ongoing.
Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said that the lack of recent illegal conduct is because the settlements with foreign banks ''required the banks to implement rigorous compliance programs and other safeguards'' against further violations of sanctions. She said that the department's enforcement program ''has had a significant impact on banking industry practices involving sanctions.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Standard Chartered headquarters in London. The bank is accused of hiding $250 billion in transactions tied to Iran. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVIA HARRIS/REUTERS) (B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); MONEY LAUNDERING (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); CARTELS (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); TERRORISM (56%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (56%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (92%); LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC (85%); BARCLAYS PLC (85%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (85%); ING GROEP NV (74%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (60%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (58%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (92%); CS (NYSE) (92%); LYG (NYSE) (85%); LLOY (LSE) (85%); BCS (NYSE) (85%); BARC (LSE) (85%); HSBA (LSE) (85%); HSB (PAR) (85%); HBC (NYSE) (85%); 0005 (HKSE) (85%); INGA (BIT) (74%); INGA (AMS) (74%); ING (NYSE) (74%); RBS (NYSE) (60%); RBS (LSE) (60%); RBS (AMS) (60%); ABO (ASX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (85%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (85%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (74%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (74%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (74%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (74%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



306 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Young in G.O.P. Erase the Lines On Social Issues

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

 BODY:
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -- Matt Hoagland, the county leader of a group of young North Carolina Republicans, is busy trying to ramp up enthusiasm for Mitt Romney at the grass-roots level. So there are a few things he avoids mentioning to prospective young voters he wants to woo, including the hot-button topics like abortion and same-sex marriage, which have dominated campaigns past.''Social issues are far down the priorities list, and I think that's the trend,'' Mr. Hoagland, 27, said. ''That's where it needs to go if the Republican Party is going to be successful.''
Zoey Kotzambasis, vice president of the College Republicans at the University of Arizona, considers herself a conservative. But she supports both same-sex marriage and abortion rights. Those are not just her opinions.
''A lot of the College Republicans I know share the same liberal-to-moderate social views,'' she added. ''And I think that's changing the face of the party.'' 
In a break from generations past and with an eye toward the future, many of the youngest leaders of the Republican Party are embracing views on some social issues that are at odds with traditional conservative ideology -- if they mention such issues at all, according to interviews, experts and some polling.
''When it comes to what you do in your bedroom, or where you go to church, or where you want to put a tattoo, we just couldn't care less,'' Mr. Hoagland said at a meeting last month of young Republicans in Charlotte.
And some social conservatives say they are deliberately playing down their own views on issues as a tactical move to attract more young voters to the Republican Party.
Polls show that Americans under 30 are the least likely to identify as Republican, and those in the millennial generation support President Obama by a wide margin. But in an effort to win votes by capitalizing on disenchantment with the recession and its slow recovery, Republicans are placing a renewed emphasis on fiscal issues, with hopes of energizing their young people -- a group that had one of the lowest turnout levels in the history of presidential elections in 2008 and did not turn out in strong numbers in this year's primaries.
''I would prefer that Mitt Romney leave social issues sort of alone, because I do disagree with him on those things,'' said Ms. Kotzambasis, whose group, like many others, operates mostly independent of any national party oversight. ''He keeps saying that the first things he'll tackle are health care and the economy, and I hope he tackles the economy. I'm graduating in a couple years, and it's pretty dismal where I am.''
What has become the norm, some experts say, is for young Republicans to take a cafeteria-style approach to issues that are important to them. And some established leaders see that as a boon to their party.
''My theory is that, just as young people don't have to buy a whole album on iTunes and can pick and choose just the songs they like, they can customize their political views -- and they do,'' said Kristen Soltis, a Republican pollster who is the communications adviser to Crossroads Generation, a new pro-Romney ''super PAC'' aimed at young voters.
In her outreach to social moderates, Amelia Lutz, vice chairwoman of the Missouri College Republicans, calls her particular group ''a welcoming, big-tent party.''
A poll this year by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press found that the percentage of Republicans ages 18 through 29 who favor same-sex marriage has grown to 37 percent, up from 28 percent eight years ago.
''The students I know who are conservative are far less so on social issues than our parents,'' Ms. Kotzambasis, 19, said. ''People are more accepting of different lifestyles.''
Younger Republicans are also the most likely members of the party to say that ''more people of different races marrying each other'' and ''more women in the work force'' have been changes for the better, according to a separate Pew study conducted last year.
Republican leaders also hope to tap into what they see as a growing libertarian streak among young conservatives -- the same energy that Representative Ron Paul of Texas rode with some success through the early primaries, with a strong emphasis on minimalist government and individual freedoms.
Those ideas may complement long-established ideals about deficit reduction and cutting the size of government, issues on which young Republicans do not differ much from older generations of Republicans, experts said.
Asked what she thought would be the most effective message to reach young Republicans, Ms. Soltis echoed Ms. Kotzambasis: ''Jobs, jobs, jobs could be it.''
All of their characteristics taken together, young Republicans present a nuanced mix of political ideals that may well change the face of the party over time, experts say. ''There has to be room for them or the Republican Party won't exist, at the pace this generation is evolving,'' said John Della Volpe, polling director at the Harvard Institute of Politics.
With Mr. Obama currently leading Mr. Romney among Americans under 30 by 21 percentage points, according to the most recent Gallup poll, some Republican advisers said they would consider it a success if the margin shrinks by 10 points. ''In some of these swing states, that could really be decisive,'' Ms. Soltis said.
North Carolina is one such state. In McLeansville, 20-year-old Eddie Souther has founded a new Republican youth group, the Collegiate Informed Voters of Guilford County, that is reaching out to students in Spanish and Arabic as well as English, hoping to cast the widest possible net for Mr. Romney.
''We have a pretty significant Hispanic and Muslim population here,'' Mr. Souther said, ''and I'm just thinking about the future of the United States.''
Some young conservatives, Mr. Souther among them, continue to oppose abortion and same-sex marriage but say they are playing down their personal views because they have made the calculation that such issues will not be a factor in this year's races.
Mr. Souther's month-old group is going to be pushing on the economy and jobs, he said.
''I'm definitely socially conservative,'' he said. ''I'm not for gay marriage or abortion. But those are not issues that we feel are going to be moved or dramatically changed in any way.''
Other young Republicans spoke with passion about how their values had evolved over the past several years, especially while in college.
Ms. Kotzambasis, at the University of Arizona, said she was ''accepting pro-life arguments'' in the seventh and eighth grades. ''But when I went through puberty and became a young woman,'' she said, ''I realized I didn't know what I would do in that situation, so I couldn't judge someone else's choices.''
At least two members of her College Republican group, one of whom is a lifelong friend, recently revealed that they are gay, she said. And the open discussions that ensued greatly influenced the entire club, and solidified Ms. Kotzambasis's own view.
''I think people have become much more at ease and comfortable about it,'' she said. ''Honestly, there's about zero judgment from the people in our club, and I think that reflects the direction my generation wants to take the party in.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A luncheon last month in Charlotte, N.C., explored how Republicans can attract young voters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN W. ADKISSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); COUNTIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); GAYS & LESBIANS (76%); MARRIAGE (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (74%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (71%); ABORTION (71%); MILLENNIUM (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (56%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (91%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



307 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Romney Hits Bottom on Welfare

 BODY:
Mitt Romney's campaign has hit new depths of truth-twisting with its accusation that President Obama plans to ''gut welfare reform'' by ending federal work requirements. The claim is blatantly false, but it says a great deal about Mr. Romney's increasingly desperate desire to define the president as something he is not.For years, both Republican and Democratic governors have sought waivers from the 1996 work requirements in the welfare program, sometimes to tailor programs to their states' needs, or to experiment with demonstration programs. Last year, an aide to Brian Sandoval, the Republican governor of Nevada, asked to discuss flexibility in imposing those requirements. Perhaps, the state asked, those families hardest to employ could be exempted from the work requirements for six months while officials worked with them to stabilize their households. 
Utah, also led by a Republican governor, asked for relief from some federal reporting requirements, and urged that refugee families be treated differently when seeking welfare benefits because of cultural barriers.
Reacting to these kinds of requests, the Department of Health and Human Services issued a memo last month granting states some flexibility. If states can find better ways to get welfare recipients into jobs, they can extend training periods or grant certain kinds of exceptions. The department ''is only interested in approving waivers if the state can explain in a compelling fashion why the proposed approach may be a more efficient or effective means to promote employment entry, retention, advancement, or access to jobs,'' according to the memo. Kathleen Sebelius, the health secretary, said all waivers would have to move 20 percent more people from welfare to work.
This was hardly an earthshaking change. In fact, it was exactly the kind of flexibility sought in 2005 by 29 Republican governors, including Mitt Romney of Massachusetts. But conservative ideologues immediately waved the memo around to prove that Mr. Obama wanted to return to the bad old days of welfare, and inevitably Mr. Romney's campaign followed suit.
''Under Obama's plan, you wouldn't have to work and wouldn't have to train for a job,'' says the latest Romney ad. ''They just send you your welfare check, and 'welfare to work' goes back to being plain old welfare.'' Mr. Romney himself doubled down on Wednesday, saying flatly in Des Moines that Mr. Obama has ''removed the requirement of work from welfare.''
This could not be more wrong, but this is what happens when a flailing campaign searches for a wedge issue to gain popularity among blue-collar voters. Mr. Romney's empty promises to magically turn around the economy are losing effectiveness, so why not vilify welfare recipients and portray the president as coddling them?
That approach was favored by an earlier generation of Republican operatives, and it helped divide the country into warring political classes. Mr. Romney, no less cynical, seems bent on repeating the past.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FAMILY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); REFUGEES (69%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (58%); BRIAN SANDOVAL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



308 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM AFRICA; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: U.S., Too, Wants to Bolster Investment in a Continent's Economic Promise

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

 BODY:
PRETORIA, South Africa -- When Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton landed in South Africa this week, she brought along a hefty delegation of executives from some of America's leading companies -- Boeing, Walmart, FedEx, G.E. -- and a message: America is ready to invest in Africa.But these companies need no introduction to the continent, which is home to 7 of the world's 10 fastest growing economies. They are already here. Earlier this year, Walmart finalized a deal worth more than $2 billion to acquire 51 percent of South Africa's leading retailer, MassMart. G.E. has signed a deal with the Nigerian government to work together on infrastructure and power projects. Six hundred American companies have invested in South Africa alone.
Mrs. Clinton's trip, expected to stretch over the better part of two weeks and nine countries, reflects the shifting image of the continent and the deepening political, economic and security stakes at play here. There was a time in the not-too-distant past when a trip to Africa by a senior United States official would focus largely on humanitarian aid and development assistance to hopelessly poor, war-torn nations. 
No more. These days, the continent is widely seen as the next frontier for economic growth. Politically, African votes are sometimes crucial in the United Nations, particularly South Africa's. On the security front, alliances with African governments to fight terrorism and piracy are very important to the United States.
''Africa is no longer an object of our fears or hopes or pity,'' said Todd Moss, a senior fellow at the Center for Global Development, a research institution in Washington. But ''the United States is stuck in a bit of a time warp,'' only recently catching up to the changing realities on the ground, he said.
Other players, most notably but not exclusively China, anticipated this shift long ago and have a significant head start on the continent, analysts say.
''China is recognizing the potential, and the U.S. is not grasping these opportunities,'' said Peter Lewis, an expert on Africa at Johns Hopkins University. ''They are losing the narrative.''
Again and again on her trip, Mrs. Clinton pressed for deepening economic ties, saying -- in what was widely interpreted as a swipe at China -- that the United States does not simply want to export the continent's bountiful raw materials and pocket the proceeds back home; it seeks a partnership that will bring broad benefits to all Africans.
''The days of having outsiders come and extract the wealth of Africa for themselves, leaving nothing or very little behind, should be over in the 21st century,'' Mrs. Clinton said in a speech in Dakar, Senegal.
That remark prompted a rare rebuke from China in the form of an editorial from the state-run news agency, Xinhua, which said that the implication that ''China has been extracting Africa's wealth for itself is utterly wide of the truth.''
On her valedictory African tour as secretary of state, Mrs. Clinton is visiting a very different continent from the one she came to as first lady in the 1990s.
If a collection of more than 50 nations that is home to a billion people who speak thousands of languages could be said to have a narrative, until recently it was one dominated, fairly or not, by war, famine and misrule.
Those wars have, with a few notable exceptions, largely ended. Even Somalia, the very picture of a failed African state, has begun to turn around. Many of Africa's democracies have grown stronger, even in adversity and despite setbacks in places like Mali.
On this trip, Mrs. Clinton has taken pains to visit countries that are exemplars of democratic success. She began in Senegal, where a longtime president voted out of power left office peacefully, and also visited Malawi, a nation that had begun to stifle under an autocratic president. His death was followed by an orderly transfer of power to his deputy, Joyce Banda, a political adversary who now gives Africa two female heads of state. Mrs. Clinton will stop in Ghana for the funeral of President John Atta Mills, whose deputy was sworn in peacefully without anyone batting an eye.
But the biggest change is economic. The growth rate for the continent has crept up, rivaling Asia's overall growth at the height of the ''tiger economy'' era of the 1990s, and it could reach 7 percent by 2015, according to the United Nations Development Program. And it is not just oil. Some of the top performers, like Rwanda, Ethiopia and Zambia, have not a drop of the stuff.
As the World Bank concluded in a recent report, ''Africa could be on the brink of an economic takeoff, much like China was 30 years ago, and India 20 years ago.''
China is the biggest, but by no means the only, country making big bets in Africa, and not simply on extracting mineral resources. Indian telecom companies, Brazilian construction firms and other players in the developing world's rising economies are betting on Africa.
''There is this newfangled, unprecedented interest in Africa,'' said Chris Landsberg, a foreign affairs analyst at the University of Johannesburg. ''Every single important country -- whether China, France, Britain, India, Brazil, Turkey, you name it -- they are all queuing up.''
American officials are quick to say that there is no fundamental competition between the United States and China in Africa: the continent has a nearly bottomless need for investment that no one country could fill.
''The United States has been present in Africa probably longer than the Chinese,'' said Francisco J. Sanchez, the under secretary for international trade at the Commerce Department, who accompanied Mrs. Clinton in South Africa. ''I am not going to try to guess whether we are behind, or right up even, or whether we are ahead. What I do know is that we need to be present now.''
The two countries have very different models of investment. Chinese companies, some of them state-owned, can offer megaprojects that include ports, roads and rail lines, all financed by cheap government-backed credit.
But what is good for China may also be good for the United States. New Chinese-built airports mean African airlines are likely to need more Boeing planes. Better roads and ports mean Walmart can move goods faster and more cheaply in Africa.
''I think in private there is very little U.S. concern about what China is doing in Africa,'' said Mr. Moss, who served as a deputy assistant secretary of state in the Africa division from 2007 to 2008. ''The U.S. is not going to build highways and bridges and airports, and that is something Africa needs, so we should be grateful that the Chinese are doing this.''
The biggest beneficiaries of Africa's growth must be Africans, leaders from the continent say. South Africa's president, Jacob Zuma, made headlines recently by saying that the trade relationship between China and South Africa was unsustainable because too much of it was simply raw materials, exported unprocessed.
''At the end of the day it is up to Africans,'' said Mr. Landsberg of the University of Johannesburg. ''Partnerships must ultimately be on our own terms.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and her South African counterpart, Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, right, in song at dinner. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACQUELYN MARTIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); TERRORISM (50%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAKAR, SENEGAL (50%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFRICA (97%); SOUTH AFRICA (96%); CHINA (94%); SENEGAL (79%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



309 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: When the Choice Is Jobs or the Environment

BYLINE: CHRYSTIA FREELAND


HIGHLIGHT: When oil was both dwindling and polluting, a convergence of economic and environmental common sense helped environmentalists win mainstream converts. Now, new energy sources threaten to pit the greens and the blue-collar against one another. 

 BODY:
For the past couple of decades, economic common sense and fears about climate change have coincided. Relying on fossil fuels was a mistake, both because we were running out of them and because of the impact of greenhouse gases on the environment.
The big challenge for the environmental movement, and for the liberal parties that have generally been aligned with it, is that this convenient equation is falling apart, thanks to the unexpected surge in oil production. As I explain in my latest column, fossil fuels are about to become abundant - which is a panacea for the struggling global economy - particularly, as it happens, for the United States. But it threatens to trip up the left.
The knee-jerk reaction of liberals, as we have seen in the American left's opposition to the Keystone Pipeline, will be to question new sources of fossil fuels, especially those extracted from the hard-to-reach deposits, like the oil sands, which are fueling the current upsurge in production.
But that intuitive stance could cost the environmental movement the widespread popular support it has been gradually building. Like gay marriage, environmentalism is at a cultural tipping point, on the verge of becoming the default view of the younger generation.
Here's the rub - economic growth matters to young people, too, particularly in an age of high unemployment. Cheaper fossil fuels promise to be an important kick-starter of economic growth, particularly for the blue-collar white men who are under such threat in today's US economy.
In the long-run, climate change threatens us all. But, as Keynes pointed out, in the long-run, we are all dead. In an era of surging oil production, one of the big tests for liberals will be to find a way to balance the long-run interests of the earth, with our short-term interest in economic growth and well-paying jobs.

        
Why Saudi Oil Pledge Could Prove Hollow
        
U.S. Fight Against E.U. Airline Emissions Plan Heats Up
        
Bike-Share City
        
Away from Rio, a Big Victory for a Small Conservation Group
        
Will Europe Ever Get Its Supergrid?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (92%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); OIL SANDS (76%); MARRIAGE (73%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (52%) energy; Environment; green; oil; Economic Conditions and Trends; Featured; Page Two

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



310 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(2012 London Olympics)

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; olympics

LENGTH: 3726 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Women's Soccer Team Defeats Japan for Gold Medal

BYLINE: ANDREW DAS


HIGHLIGHT: The United States women's soccer team defeated Japan 2-1 to win the.gold medal in London. 

 BODY:
LONDON - The Americans avenged their loss to Japan in the Women's World Cup last summer with a 2-1 victory and a gold medal at the Olympics in London on Thursday. It was the third consecutive gold for the United States.
 No women's team has won the World Cup and Olympic gold medal back to back. 
05:17 PM | That's It From Here
None of the medalists seem to know what to do. The officials all left with them still up on the podium, so they're just standing around waving. Hopefully someone comes to collect them, but I'm pretty sure none of them are in a hurry to leave. 
(To answer a commenter's question: the U.S. T-shirts were apparently a Nike ad thing, because heaven forbid they get left out of someone's achievement for once. Hope their I.O.C. sponsorship is paid up or they're going to get an angry letter.) 
That's it from Wembley. Thanks for following along, if you did. And if you didn't - spoiler alert - the U.S. wins in the end. Good night.
- 
05:13 PM | The Three-Gold Club
Rampone, Shannon Boxx, Heather Mitts and Heather O'Reilly all pick up their third gold medals. So if they ever run into Michael Phelps, at least they'll have something to talk about.
- 
05:12 PM | Cheers for Lloyd
She gets the biggest ovation so far. Then it's on to Sydney Leroux, the only American who was not on the team when it lost to Japan in last summer's World Cup final.
- 
05:09 PM | Another Check-In From Tokyo
Hiroko Tabuchi writes from Japan:
Ken Hayashi, 26, said that he felt the Japanese women had earned a trip home in business class.
"Silver's a big achievement and they did far better than the men. They should be able to kick the men off business class and fly back in style."
The fact that the Japanese women flew to London in economy while the men rode in business class caused a big stir in Japan. Ken Belson, who revealed that fact in the States, has written about it several times.
- 
05:06 PM | Now Flowers for Japan ...
... and then the golds for the U.S.
- 
05:06 PM | Japan Bows
A little comedic touch for the Japanese as they are announced as the silver medalists: they bow, one by one, all the way down the line. That's a Rockettes' move.
- 
05:01 PM | Chariots of Fire, Extended Remix
If the theme had been this long when the English ran on the beach in the movie they never would have won any medals in Paris.
- 
05:00 PM | Blatter Booed!!
Angela Ruggerio, a four-time medal winner in Olympic hockey for the U.S., will hand out the medals. But the delicious moment is when Blatter is announced: the entire crowd rains boos on him.
Think your time is up yet, Sepp?
- 
04:59 PM | I'll Have the Gold, Please
It takes about 15 people to carry out the medals.
- 
04:58 PM | Now the Anti-Heroes
FIFA's president, Sepp Blatter, leads out a line of people in blue blazers to get some face time.
- 
04:53 PM | Time for Some Hardware
The teams are returning to the field. The Japanese appear to have come to grips with the loss - they're laughing as they come out in a conga line. The U.S. is next, having changed into track suits. And here come the Canadians. They're in red, and the only ones who've showered. 
The teams all walk hand in hand to the podiums at midfield, like a kindergarten class on a field trip. "Today, children, we will learn about precious metals."
- 
04:50 PM | Sweet End for Rampone
Rampone's gold medal will be her third, but she also has a silver from Sydney 2000. Almost certain no one else in the world can say that.
- 
04:45 PM | He Called It
Go back and watch The Times's video preview of this game. Sam Borden predicted that the team that scored first would win, and he said that would be the United States, 2-1.
- 
04:43 PM | Gold, and Then the Payoff
The U.S. victory means the team will have a lucrative 10-game victory tour when it returns to the States. Coming soon to a town near you.
- 
04:41 PM | And Now They Go
Japan has already left the field, and now the U.S. will follow. They'll be back soon to get their medals.
- 
04:38 PM | They Are the Champions
Queen blares over the loudspeakers as the American players circle the field with their flags and new T-shirts that say "Greatness has been found," whatever the heck that means.
The win seems to hit Rapinoe all at once; now she's crying and pointing into the stands. She was great in the Olympic tournament, and said her decision to come out as gay before it began freed her to play some of the best soccer of her career.
- 
04:36 PM | Sad for Japan
They were terrific, but very unlucky tonight, and it's just killing them. Miyama had to be helped to her feet. After huddling they walk to the far sideline in a line and salute their fans to a huge cheer. 
All is not lost for them: they're still the world champions, and their silvers are the first Olympic medals Japan has won in women's soccer.
Now they come to the near side to salute the crowd, bowing deeply in appreciation.
- 
04:34 PM | T-Shirt Time
As Japan huddles, its players in tears, Abby Wambach goes into the stands for an American flag. Others follow her in and come out with their own.
- 
04:33 PM | Full Time: U.S. 2, Japan 1
It's all over at Wembley. The whistle goes and it's all hugs on one side and collapsing bodies on the other.
The United States wins its fourth gold medal in women's soccer, and its third in a row. They have won four of the five Olympic tournaments.
- 
04:32 PM | 90+2': Last Chance?
As "U-S-A" chant becomes louder, Maruyama loses the ball and then fouls. A free kick and ....
- 
04:31 PM | 90+1': Free Kick for U.S.
Don't think they won't take every second they can. They send it long, and some neat dribbling into and then out of the corner by O'Hara milks a little more clock.
- 
04:29 PM | 90':Wambach Earns a Yellow
She dives in to break up a backpass at midfield and cleans out the defender. "I got the ball," she pleads, but winning the ball is not a get-out-of-jail-free card.
Two minutes of added time coming. Think Japan wishes it had fouled a bit earlier, to stop the clock more?
- 
04:28 PM | 88': Tick Tick Tick
The Americans win a corner, and to the dismay of the Canadians, who have no doubt made their way down here from Coventry by now to pick up their bronze medals, they stall a little to kill some clock.
- 
04:26 PM | 87': Japan Presses for the Tie
This is not their game, though. Japan prefers possession and tight passing in close quarters, slicing up opponents, not the long heaves they've been forced to try. But you can't take a knife to a gunfight. Especially one that'll be over in about five minutes.
- 
04:25 PM | 86': Last Sub for Japan
Maruyama - a fresh forward - comes on for Ohno, who ran her legs off.
- 
04:23 PM | 83': Solo Saves
Bad giveaway by Rampone just outside her box hands Japan a dangerous two on one. Iwabuchi takes it from her, pushes it ahead and fires - but Solo dives to her left to save it. 
Game-changing moment right there at 2-1. Only Solo rose to it, not Iwabuchi.
- 
04:22 PM | 82': Lloyd Goes for Her Hat Trick!
A long-range shot from the left this time, off a neat drop-off. It sails over the cross bar, but only slightly.
- 
04:21 PM | 80': Buehler Off
After one too many knocks to the head, Buehler is replaced by Sauerbrun. She got her bell rung a couple of times tonight.
- 
04:19 PM | 79': Morgan on the Loose
Another Japan free kick, another header won by the U.S.
They push ahead quickly for Morgan, who corrals. This time she crosses for the charging teammate - Rampone - but her finishing skills show why she's a central defender.
- 
04:17 PM | 77': Japan Going All In
Sasaki sends on Iwabuchi - a forward - for Sameshima - a defender.
- 
04:16 PM | 77': (Almost) Full House
Attendance tonight is 80,203 - the largest crowd ever for an Olympic women's soccer game. The U.S., of course, is used to crowds like this.
- 
04:12 PM | 73': Handball U.S. 
No missing that one. Japan gets a free kick from 30 after Lloyd blocks a cross with her arm. "Not my fault!" she pleads, but the ref wasn't going to miss another.
The free kick turns into a pinball exchange that ends only after Le Peilbet blocks a ball by throwing her hips into it. Really dangerous moments for the U.S. there - shambolic defending, to borrow a phrase - but again they escape. Been like that all night, and they only need it to stay that way for another 15 minutes.
- 
04:10 PM | 71': Rare Rough Stuff
Bibiana has to step in a couple of times, and Japan ends up with a 30-yard free kick. But its size disadvantage shows as the U.S. rises high to head it away.
- 
04:06 PM | 68': Japan First Foul
It's a quality one, as Tanaka whacks down Wambach 40 yards from the goal. 
It slows down the attack though, but nearly proves costly: Morgan knocks down a header on the free kick and Fukumoto has to charge out to stop a point-blank shot by Buehler.
- 
04:04 PM | 65': Going to Be a Great Finish
The atmosphere in here is electric, with every "U-S-A!" chant answered with one of "Nip-pon!"
- 
04:00 PM | 63': Japan GOAL!!!!
Japan gets one back but it takes two bites at the apple. U.S. defense looks confused, and Sawa finds herself open at the spot. It's saved by Solo and a defender, but she slides the rebounds to Ogimi - who buries the freebie!
We've got a game again.
- 
03:58 PM | 59': Now Japan Change
Asuna Tanaka replaced Sakaguchi in the midfield. Straight swap like Cheney for Rapinoe, who didn't look happy to leave by the way.
- 
03:56 PM | 57': Going the Other Way
Wambach clears a corner by Japan and suddenly the ball is ahead and at the feet of Morgan. Rapinoe and Wambach bust it to join her in the attack, but Morgan fails to reward their effort. Instead she cuts in and fires a wayward shot.
Moments later, Rapinoe is subbed off for Lauren Cheney.
- 
03:55 PM | 54': Sweet Strike From Lloyd
She took a ball from Rapinoe just inside Japan's half and dribbled through as Wambach and Morgan raced out in front of her. But the angle was right and the pass wasn't there, so she rips a shot with her right foot that screams across Fukumoto's goal and tucks inside the left-side netting. Wonderful strike, and the U.S. opens a 2-0 cushion.
- 
03:52 PM | 54': GOAL!! 
Lloyd again!
- 
03:50 PM | 51': Checking In From Japan
Hiroko Tabuchi, who works in The Times's Tokyo office, checks in:
Much groaning and clutching heads in the first half at a Tokyo sports bar, where about 100 fans are gathered to cheer on the Japan side. "Foiled by Hope again!" shouted one supporter. But Misa Ono, 25, currently unemployed, says she believes Japan can catch up. "We had so many close chances!" she says. "We've come too far to lose now."
- 
03:48 PM | 49': Morgan Draws a Corner
Morgan, who had gone missing for a bit in the first half, pushes hard down the left wing but runs out of room.
- 
03:45 PM | 46': Bad Start There
Twenty seconds into the half, Boxx commits a silly foul from behind to Solo's right. 
The cross sails in and Solo charges, punching it clear as Kumagai and Buehler slam into her. Buehler stays down, allowing TV to show a replay of her hugging Kumagai as they dove for the ball. Whoops.
- 
03:33 PM | 46': Second Half Under Way 
Japan did everything but score: two shots onto crossbar, another saved off the line, PK not called, late shot curled around post. There's a goal out there - just a matter if the U.S. gets a second before Japan's luck changes.
- 
03:30 PM | Halftime: U.S. 1, Japan 0
Japan had its chances, but only the U.S. put one in. Lots of rattling of the American woodwork, though. They'll have some things to talk about defensively.
Japan doesn't wait that long, as Coach Norio Sasaki stops his goalkeeper, Fukumoto, and Sameshima on their way off the field for a stern, "Hey, we're better than this" talk. It ends with him smacking Sameshima on the behind as she heads to the locker room. Parcells would have done the same thing.
- 
03:28 PM | 45': Heath From Distance
Tobin Heath wastes a good chance off a turnover with a 30-yard shot that's easily saved. 
At the other end, Japan wins a free kick from 45. They scored on two of these against France.
- 
03:27 PM | 43': Wambach Lands One
Trying to reach around Kumagai with her left foot to get onto a cross, she instead kicks Kumagai in the face. She crumbles, but Steinhaus tells her to rub some dirt on it and play resumes.
- 
03:23 PM | 42': Lloyd Tries Her Luck
Her shot from 25 yards dips before it gets to Fukumoto, but she smothers it.
- 
03:19 PM | 37': Ohno Whistles Past the Post
Firing from the top of the box, Ohno goes close again. The U.S. is reallllllly living dangerously here.
Japan's answer to the high line has been to stretch the U.S. back line with balls out to left wing - hoping that when the ball comes back, there will be openings. So far, there have been: Japan just hasn't been able to capitalize yet.
- 
03:17 PM | 33': Japan Off the Bar Again 
This time it's the right bar at least. Buehler loses Ohno in the box in an exchange of passes and she puts the ball on a tee for a charging Miyama - who rockets her shot over Solo but off the crossbar!
- 
03:14 PM | 31': Rapinoe Corner
U.S. wins the header - they're killing Japan in the air, as they should, given their height advantage - but Japan again brings all 11 players in tight, so there's always someone there to clear.
- 
03:12 PM | 28': Off the Post!
LePeilbet's cross screams into Japan's area, and Iwashimizu, trying to clear, instead fires a header past Fukumoto and off the left post. So Japan gets a break back there.
- 
03:11 PM | 27': Heath on the Handball
My mistake. That was Heath in the box, who reached out with her left hand to stop Sakaguchi's free kick. A real break for the U.S. that it wasn't called, because it was a clear PK.
- 
03:05 PM | 26': Smooth Move by Kawasumi
Trapped in a double team just outside the left edge of the U.S. area, she flips the ball through and gets a foul called. 
Sakaguchi drives the free kick into the wall, where Morgan clearly handles it, but there's no whistle. Japan complains as ball is cleared into their end.
- 
03:03 PM | 20': Baby Horse Wants to Run
Morgan is just stalking Japan's offside trap, waiting for a ball to run after. 
One's going to come; that much is sure.
- 
03:01 PM | 17': Japan's First Chance
Kawasumi breaks in on Solo's right and sends a shot across the goalmouth that Rampano stops. But she leaves it right there and Ohno smacks it - but Solo is there to stop it.
The U.S. clears, but soon Japan is right back, and this time Solo has to push Ogimi's header onto the bar.
- 
02:57 PM | 15': U.S. Really Pressing Japan
A nice backheel by Wambach frees Lloyd for a shot. It's blocked, so Wambach swings at the rebound. She whiffs, but Rapinoe controls and draws a corner. 
Japan pulls all 10 field players within a step of the 6-yard box to defend it. Nervous?
- 
02:56 PM | 12': High Line for U.S. 
Japan is trying to bust through, but the American defense is holding by forcing them to make earlier decisions. It's a strategy good teams can play, especially if they have played together a lot, but you only have to be wrong once for it to fail. So far, so good for the Americans.
- 
02:55 PM | 11' Brave Play by Lloyd
But what a nose for the ball. It's a final and all, so stick your melon in there.
- 
02:53 PM | 10': Morgan Makes It; Lloyd Scores It
Morgan flubs a nice cross by pushing the ball too far to shoot. So she cuts it back to Wambach, but Lloyd lowers her head and takes it right off her foot. Tough to see at full speed, because Wambach took a swing at it, but the goal goes to Lloyd, who is probably lucky Wambach's foot didn't connect with her ear.
- 
02:51 PM | 10': GOALLLL!
Carli Lloyd scores for the U.S.
- 
02:49 PM | 6': First Foul
Boxx draws the first whistle but the U.S. quickly wins the ball back.
Wambach leads Morgan, who tumbles after colliding with Iwashimizu. The ref lets them play; didn't seem worth it, and you'll never get that call in the first 10 minutes.
- 
02:49 PM | 5': Japan Counters
Ohno springs up the middle on the counter, but her through ball is too far for Kawasumi.
- 
02:48 PM | 3': Our First Chance
Wambach pushes ahead to Morgan on the left, and she takes advantage of a tentative touch by the defender to push the ball into the area. But her shot is straight at Fukumoto.
- 
02:46 PM | 2': Working the Body
The U.S. is already dropping crosses in the middle toward Wambach and Morgan against the much shorter Japanese but no connections yet. Height is an advantage France also had, but they did little to exploit it.
- 
02:45 PM | Game On
Right on time. U.S. kicks off, and promptly sends the ball straight to Fukumoto. Now Solo has it. I'd prefer the people in between them see a little more of it.
- 
02:37 PM | Fourth Meeting This Year
These teams know all about each other. This is the fourth meeting this year. Japan won the first, in the semifinals of the Algarve Cup in March, and then they tied in an exhibition in Japan in April. The U.S. then drilled the Japanese, 4-1, in a friendly.
So today's the rubber match.
The U.S. is in blue and Japan in red jerseys and white shorts. So picture that as you read along.
- 
02:35 PM | The Teams Are in the Tunnel
The crowd roars - adding to the din, as the music is still on - when they are shown on the scoreboard video screens.
Here they come on the field. Shut your office door and let's get going.
- 
02:31 PM | Inside the Stadium
There's a bigger crowd in here than there was for the France-Japan semifinal on Monday, which allows the fans to pass around a giant Wenlock banner as they wait for the teams. 
Can't tell if they're making a lot of noise because the music is being pumped in on 11. My ears are going to be ringing for days. If you open your window in New York, you can probably hear it.
- 
02:22 PM | Wambach? What Do You Think?
Abby Wambach has scored in all five of the Americans' games at the Olympics. Does she have one or two more in her? 
Curious about the first 20 minutes or so. Read back through my live blog of last summer's World Cup final between the teams and the United States really took it to Japan in the early going. Had they converted one or two the game probably never would have gone to overtime, let alone penalty kicks.
All the goal scorers from that day - Morgan and Wambach for the U.S., and Miyama and Sawa for Japan - are in the lineup today. In fact, almost everyone from last year's game is here today. Eighteen of the 22 starters - eight for the United States and 10 for Japan - also started the final.
So did our friend Bibiana, who's on the whistle again tonight.
- 
02:12 PM | A Little Bit on Wembley
Wembley, like Old Trafford and St. James' Park, doesn't see a lot of women's soccer, but it's rapidly filling with fans of each team. 
This Wembley is not the old Wembley, the famed Empire Stadium. That was torn down in 2002; this one opened in 2007 on the same spot. It hosts the F.A. Cup final every year, but also N.F.L. games and the occasional Champions League final (2011, when Messi led Barcelona past Manchester United, and next year's, when Messi will lead Barcelona over someone else no doubt.)
Wembley is a classy place. The stewards all wear blue blazers, and there are cookies - no wait, biscuits! - next to the tea in the media lounge. You don't get that at other venues here. 
Another first? There's moisturizer next to the soap dispensers in the bathroom. Not a big moisturizer guy, and I'm sure most of the sportswriters here have never seen it before, but I've washed my hands twice. You just kind of feel like you ought to be clean here.
- 
2:14 P.M. | For Japan, Enthusiastic Fans
Enthusiasm for Nadeshiko Japan is running high. After the doors opened at Wembley Stadium two hours before the gold medal match with the United States, fans started pouring in, including some who had just arrived from Japan.
Tsutomu Murayama, who flew in from Osaka on Wednesday night, was sitting with three friends about 10 rows from the field behind the Japanese bench. In a sign of his confidence in Nadeshiko Japan, they bought their tickets in January. Never one to leave anything to chance, Murayama visited London in May for two days to scout out the stadium and hotel.
"These players have prepared and are ready to win," said Murayama, who was draped in a Japanese flag and wore a headband that said "hissho," or certain victory in English.
Tesshin Yano sat a few rows away. He and his family arrived yesterday from Tokyo, and they had a special reason to make the trip: Kyoko Yano, a defender on the Japanese team, is his sister.
Yano expected Japan to win, 2-1. He seemed certain.
"I wouldn't be here if I didn't have confidence," he said.
- 
2:08 PM | Both Teams on the Field
The U.S. players are loosening up with some small-sided games and some one-on-one exercises. The Japanese are huddling in fear down by one of the corner flags, praying.
I kid.
- 
1:57 PM | Canada Coming to Visit Later
Canada, which no doubt still feels that it should be playing in this game at Wembley, won the bronze medal today, 1-0, over France, on a goal by Diana Matheson two minutes into second half added time. 
Die by the sword, live by the sword, I guess. 
Anyway, the Canadians are on their way down from Coventry, where the third-place game was played, to pick up their bronzes in the medals ceremony after this game. Let's hope a hockey fight doesn't break out when they see the Americans.
- 
1:51 PM | Today's Ref Is Named Bibiana
Typing a name like Bibiana is fun, but Bibiana Steinhaus of Germany is a solid referee. She called the Women's World Cup final between these teams last year, and works men's games in Germany's pro leagues, sometimes to comic effect.
Steinhaus works (or at least she did last year) as a policewoman, so we'll assume she'll keep things clean. The referee in the U.S.-Canada semifinal became part of the story of that game, and no one wants to see that again.
- 
1:50 PM | Lineups Are Out
Here are the United States starters. No changes at the back or up front:
Solo; LePeilbet, Rampone (c), Buehler, O'Hara; Rapinoe, Boxx, Lloyd, Heath; Morgan, Wambach
Shannon Boxx is a bit of a surprise - she starts for Lauren Cheney - since she hasn't played since the opener.
No changes for Japan from the semifinals:
Fukumoto; Kinga, Kumagai, Iwashimizu, Sameshima; Miyama, Sakaguchi, Sawa, Kawasumi; Ohno, Ogimi
Fukumoto was the (wo)man of the match that day, with a few spectacular saves - including one on France's last touch of the game.
- 

        
Breaking It Down: A Soccer Match for the Ages
        
The Soccer Chronicles: Between Matches, a Hallowed English Stadium
        
Breaking It Down: U.S. Women's Soccer vs. North Korea
        
Breaking It Down: U.S. vs. Colombia
        
U.S. vs. France: Breaking It Down

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOCCER (92%); OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); WOMEN (89%) Abby Wambach; Alex Morgan; Olympics; soccer; Morgan, Alex; Wambach, Abby; Olympic Games (2012); Soccer

PERSON: MICHAEL PHELPS (58%) Morgan, Alex; Wambach, Abby

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



311 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(2012 London Olympics)

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; olympics

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Soccer Fans Prepare for Women's Gold Medal Game

BYLINE: HIROKO TABUCHI


HIGHLIGHT: A disappointing exit from the Olympics by the men's team after its semifinal loss to Mexico on Tuesday meant Japan's women carried the hopes of the nation. 

 BODY:
TOKYO - Soccer fans were napping to prepare for what the local news media were calling the battle of the century, the women's Olympic gold medal match Thursday between Japan and the United States, which was scheduled to kick off at a ghastly 3:45 a.m. here. "It's national sleepiness day!" says Miki, who tweets at @Mikilin999.
A disappointing exit from the Games by the men's team after its semifinal loss to Mexico on Tuesday meant Japan's women carried the hopes of the nation, with bars across the nation staying open until the wee hours to televise the game.
The superstar Homare Sawa, the current FIFA women's player of the year and former team captain, who led Japan to its World Cup victory over the Americans last year, remained at the center of attention, and not just for her play on the field.
She raised eyebrows when she quipped about the women's team flying economy out of Japan, while its lower-ranked male counterparts flew business class on the same flight.
She may have made some men squirm, but her straight talk has earned her kudos among adoring female fans.
Sawa was brimming with enthusiasm Thursday, telling the local TV station Asahi that the final was "the perfect setup against the perfect opponents - and we have a perfect team."
Japanese soccer analysts pointed to the threat posed by United States striker Abby Wambach, who scored two of the four goals that carried the Americans to victory against Japan at their last matchup in June.
One TV station used tall and short players to show how the shorter Japanese might defend against the 5-foot-11 Wambach. The key, one commentator said, was to try to keep Wambach away from the ball in the first place.
"The Americans are going to get physical," said the commentator, Masaaki Sawanobori, a former professional player. "But the Japanese have skill. They have a good shot at gold."

        
Live Coverage of U.S.-Japan Women's Soccer
        
Solo, Wambach Feeling Strong for Olympics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOCCER (93%); OLYMPICS (92%); SPORTS FANS (91%); SPORTS AWARDS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); WOMEN (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); ATHLETES (73%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (70%) Abby Wambach; Homare Sawa; Olympic Games (2012); Soccer; Japan

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



312 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Another Jolt to Global Food Prices

BYLINE: JUSTIN GILLIS


HIGHLIGHT: A global food price index jumped 6 percent in July, with the drought afflicting grain crops in the United States the leading factor. 

 BODY:
For anyone doubting the importance of American agriculture to world markets, the latest price report from the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization will be revealing.The agency reported on Thursday that its food price index jumped by 6 percent in July. That was largely because of rising grain prices, with the drought in the United States and its expected impact on the corn harvest being the biggest factor. The cereals component of the index jumped 17 percent.
The report is a reversal of the recent trend in food prices; they had declined for three straight months. And it is a reminder that the global food crisis that came to a head in 2008 and again in 2011, with riots in dozens of countries, is by no means over. Many prices are still below their peak levels of recent years, true enough, but they are high by the standards of recent decades. And they could rise further as the impact of higher feed-grain prices works its way through meat and dairy markets. Cereal prices stand only slightly below their all-time peak levels in April 2008.
As I reported last year, the high temperatures and droughts of recent years, which many scientists say have become more likely because of human-induced climate change, are turning into a serious stress on the food system. Rising demand in developing countries is also a major factor.

Many experts are worried that future demand cannot be met at prices the world's poor people can afford. Reacting to Thursday's report, groups campaigning against hunger demanded that governments in the advanced countries redouble their focus on poor farmers in developing countries. Steps have been taken in that direction since the crisis peaked in 2008, but they remain inadequate, in the view of some of those groups.
"World leaders must snap out of their lazy complacency and realize the time of cheap food has long gone," Colin Roche, head of economic justice advocacy at Oxfam International, said in a statement. "Without action, millions more people are in danger of joining the billion who are already hungry."

        
The Global Food Crisis, Mapped
        
A Clarion Call on the Food Supply
        
Tracking the Global Food Situation
        
Film on Climate Refugees Strikes a Chord
        
World Food Supply: What's To Be Done?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FOOD PRICES (95%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); GRAIN FARMING (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); DROUGHT (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); WEATHER (77%); CORN FARMING (73%); REFUGEES (73%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (72%); POOR POPULATION (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (51%) climate change; Drought; Food and Agriculture Organization; Food Prices; food shortages; hunger; Agriculture and Farming; Food; Grain; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Third World and Developing Countries; Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations; Agriculture; Breaking News; Politics and Policy; Water Quantity; Weather Extremes

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (94%) Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



313 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2061 words

HEADLINE: Riling Up the 'Shrewd, Wild Boys'

BYLINE: JON GRINSPAN


HIGHLIGHT: The rowdy politics of nineteenth-century America offer a hint about where we're headed now. 

 BODY:
Today we would consider Edmund Keyser, who kept a saloon in Philadelphia during the 1860s, a compulsive gambler. But at the time he was known as a "sporting man." Keyser enjoyed all of the era's brutal entertainments. He bet on bare-knuckle boxing. He bet on rat-baiting. He played the horses. And come October of each election year, he would scrawl "busy canvassing" in his meticulous wager book and entertain himself hustling for the Democratic Party.
Like many nineteenth-century Americans, Keyser treated politics as his favorite type of horse race.
In the final months before our next election, with bombastic conventions and so much more mudslinging to come, it is comforting to imagine a golden age of informed, civil, sober democracy. No one is happy with contemporary politics, but this should not fuel nostalgic fantasies of cleaner leaders or wiser voters. During the peak of American campaign excitement, in the second half of the nineteenth century, our democracy was louder, meaner and merrier than it has ever been since. Populist campaigners perfected the art of political show business, a genre that seems to be making a comeback.
Public politics - the stuff of torchlit rallies, ale-drenched elections and "jollification" barbecues - served two purposes from 1840 through 1900. Campaigns helped select the men who would lead the government, but these gaudy, gonzo rituals were also the most popular form of entertainment in the adolescent nation. Though politics didn't appeal to or include everyone, it reached out to more people than any other entertainment at the time.
Before vaudeville or Hollywood, America lacked a widespread entertainment culture. Though church organizations and baseball leagues slowly spread across the country, most citizens held strong regional identities and shared few national pastimes. People often referred to the country as "these United States" - separate entities without an overarching civilization.
What Americans did share, from Maine to Texas and from tycoon to bootblack, was an exuberant fascination with their national political system, their ever-warring parties and their winner-take-all showdowns. When a group of strangers gathered together, on a Mississippi steamboat or at a roadside inn, they always seemed to talk politics. Many viewed their democracy as somewhere between a religion and a sport. One immigrant coal-miner, writing back to Wales in the lull after an election, looked forward to the next campaign, when "the Americans will be happy again."
Politicians stoked this fire. In the late 1840s, Abraham Lincoln jotted down plans for a perfect campaign club, which would rile up all the "shrewd, wild boys about town." Despite their differences, the parties all played the same game. In doing so, they increased partisanship to a near-tribal identity and drove voter turnout to its highest levels in American history.
Between the 1830s and 1900, most states restricted voting to white men, but activists encouraged women, children and minorities to help excite the furious campaigns that preceded each vote. In the months before an election, Americans bubbled over with catchy slogans, vicious gossip and high-stakes wagers. Diverse citizens bet everything from kid gloves to revolvers on the outcome of popular races. People grew so fixated, wrote one sarcastic diarist, that if a "kraken" swam into New York harbor, the papers "wouldn't be able to find room for the news."
Presidential campaigns peaked with massive late October rallies. In a mostly rural nation, political events gathered far-flung citizens who would not otherwise have met. Campaigners became showmen, aping P.T. Barnum and inventing eye-catching contrivances to draw spectators. At first, partisans favored pastoral symbols: log cabins on wheels; smoke curling up from working chimneys; or caged (and very angry) raccoons and foxes, symbolic of the Whig and Democratic Parties. With the Civil War, they turned to ornately uniformed marching clubs, bearing blazing torches reeking of turpentine. Spectators could usually smell a procession before they could see it. And there were always barrels of cider, or lager, or whiskey, or rum, a tin dipper set out as a shinning invitation to enjoy the party's hospitality.
Men and women used rallies for more than just politics. "Handsome and intelligent young ladies" flirtatiously debated with the dashing, mustachioed men who filled the ranks of marching companies. Occasionally, couples wandered off to find a secluded place, far from the speechifying and the fireworks. Campaigners caught on and promised unmarried voters that choosing the right party would win them female attention. One Ohio lotahrio admitted that he attended rallies for "the fun and frolic of the day."
But nineteenth-century politics was not all "fun and frolic." American democracy, though an unrivalled experiment in popular government, consistently fell short of its goals. Part of the problem was that it was simply too entertaining, brilliantly drawing out voters' worst biases. The white males who made up the largest bloc of society demanded more hoopla, not equality, and the clash of brass bands easily drowned out earnest speeches on reform. For half a century, as a Tennessee boy orator put it, "nonsense carried the day."
This love of nonsense exposes the paradox of popular democracy. Its public, competitive nature makes it thrilling and fun and powerfully hopeful. In the nineteenth-century, as regimes around the globe tightened central control, American elections confidently asserted that the people could govern themselves, but also that they could do so while getting drunk. This same belief made the system easily exploited by pluralities masquerading as majorities, which interpreted each tiny victory as a massive cultural mandate. The competitive rhythm of winner-take-all democracy, equal parts optimism and cynicism, still pulses through every campaign.
For six decades this popular political system sustained itself, but in the final years of the nineteenth century, something broke. Rallies quieted and turnout plummeted, falling from four-out-of-five eligible voters in 1896 to fewer than half by 1920. But higher turnout was not always better turnout. Progressive reforms - honest voter registration, ballots distributed by the government instead of by party hustlers, shuttered saloons on election day and even female suffrage - all helped air out the clubby environment of the polling place. Politicians shifted their focus from goofy hoopla to "educational campaigns," drowning popular enthusiasm in a sea of party platforms. The Edmund Keysers of the nation found other competitions on which to gamble.
Over the next century, Americans often avoided politics in polite company, but now we can smell those campaign torches again. A nineteenth-century "poll hustler" would recognize many of the dirty tricks that undermine our democracy today. And citizens seem newly involved and freshly irate, hooked by the entertaining, forgetful news culture, hollering at us in every elevator and airport.
How do our rekindled fears about political money, voting-rights and the media compare to their ancestors from the age of popular politics? For the most part, earlier hornswoggles outdo our twenty-first century worries. This is not because our current problems are exaggerated, but because nineteenth-century campaigners were just so brazen.
Anxieties about money in politics stretch back centuries before the Citizens United decision. Former Senator Russ Feingold denounced that ruling as a "roll back" to the days of Teddy Roosevelt, but before the intervention of progressives like Roosevelt, campaign funding went unmonitored and unlimited. The chief concern was not anonymous advertising money, but the actual buying of votes. A ballot went for about two dollars - roughly a day's pay for a laborer - and groups of "floaters" banded together during heated campaigns to drive up the price. To a nineteenth-century ward boss, even the shadiest super PAC would look like a painfully indirect way to buy an election.
Many commentators have also compared recent voter ID laws to the various tricks used to suppress African-American voting during Reconstruction. The comparison is apt, but most nineteen-century voter manipulation focused on exaggeration, not suppression. With no functioning registration system, a sneaky partisan could vote dozens of times, removing a hat or shaving his muttonchops to look slightly different each go-round. Sometimes, campaigners "colonized" a district, moving hundreds of young men into flophouses and feeding them alcohol until election day. Or they simply cast "tissue ballots" - dozens of thin tickets folded together to look like one. Poll watchers worried about how to spot "repeaters," not how to identify registered voters.
Only our media can compete with the vapid aggression of nineteenth-century American politics. Back then, a burgeoning press won Americans' attention with a pushy, fleeting style. Newspapers were often shamelessly superficial, debating issues like the significance of Grover Cleveland's extremely thick neck, during the 1884 presidential race. Even Walt Whitman, revered for his humanism, spat journalistic venom, denouncing a rival editor as "a reptile marking his path with slime," before comparing him to "a midnight ghoul, preying on rottenness and repulsive filth." Nineteenth-century journalists often wrote with a vehemence reserved for online commenters today.
History's nagging refrain, 'it used to be worse,' offers little comfort. The question is why, after a century of more private (though still flawed) politics, public partisanship has awoken in the last decade. Americans now follow the arcane goings-on in Congress, from health care mandates to debt ceilings, with an attention and a fury that would have baffled and bored citizens in the twentieth century. Though helped along by hard times, this fixation began years before the recession, and voter turnout has shot up in each presidential election since 2000. Why?
The rowdy politics of nineteenth-century America offer a hint. The boom in partisanship that began in the 1830s helped join citizens who shared little else in a common discussion about their federal political system. For instance, the Democratic Party began to link New York and Virginia, two dominant, disparate states. Captivating races joined the gambling Philadelphian Edmund Keyser with Nebraska Sunday school teachers, Georgia sharecroppers and Nevada silver-miners in a shared argument. Barely contained competition helped bring the diverse nation together by threatening to tear it apart.
But in the twentieth century, other ties bound Americans. Mounting patriotism and fading sectional conflicts helped build a united American identity. National sports, Hollywood, consolidated newspapers and network television joined Americans in conversations that had nothing to do with their political parties. 
Perhaps political entertainment has come increased in volume to help cope with the increasing divisions among Americans. Faced with rising income inequality, increasing racial and cultural diversity, looming generational conflicts and a fracturing of twentieth-century public life, arguing about the government gives us something to discuss. Americans indulge our other pastimes in growing seclusion, but the federal government is an institution citizens are expected to share. We are not divided by our heated politics; our politics heat up when we are divided.
Historic hoopla provides another clue about our political culture. As the immediacy of their differences recedes, squabbling parties look more and more alike. Democrats, Republicans, Whigs, Anti-Masons, Know Nothings and Populists had different visions for government, but they played the same game. This is mostly true today, too. For all their ideological disputes, a liberal Democrat and a conservative Republican share more in common with each other then they do with a blas non-voter. They will be watching the same thing on Nov. 6.
One point is absolutely certain, whether it's 1840 or 2012, in an overheated contest or a drowsy primary. Gambling with our inspiring, infuriating democracy is nothing new. So beware any claim about this election that starts with "it's the worst" and ends with "in American history."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); HISTORY (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); HORSES (76%); BASEBALL (72%); HORSE RACING (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); RELIGION (64%) Elections; United States Politics and Government; Voter Registration and Requirements

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



314 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: A Week of Ghosts: Japan's Annual Grieving

BYLINE: MARK MCDONALD


HIGHLIGHT: There may come a time when these memorials will cease, when they are unneeded, untoward, unwanted. But not yet. Somber ceremonies were held this week in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. 

 BODY:
HONG KONG - There may come a time when these memorials will cease, when they are unneeded, untoward, unwanted. But not yet.
On Thursday, several thousand people attended a ceremony marking the 67th anniversary of the atomic destruction of Nagasaki during World War II. A single plutonium device, nicknamed Fat Man, almost instantly killed some 70,000 people. Countless others would later succumb to radiation illness and collateral diseases. 
Three days earlier, Little Boy, a uranium bomb, had killed an estimated 140,000 people in Hiroshima. That city's annual memorial was held on Monday. 
Honoured to attend 67th Peace Ceremony in Nagasaki this morning. Hearing A-Bomb Survivors sing 'Never Again' was emotional and inspiring.
- Irish Embassy Japan (@IrishEmbJapan) August 9, 2012
Six days after Nagasaki, the Japanese surrendered. The atomic attacks were ordered by President Harry S. Truman, and his oldest grandson, Clifton Truman Daniel, was at both memorials this week, the first time a Truman relative has attended either of the ceremonies. 
A Japanese peace group also invited the grandson of Jacob Beser, a radar operator who was aboard both American bombers, The Associated Press reported. Ari Beser's grandfather was the only person who directly took part in both the Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombings. 
At the Hiroshima gathering, Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda said: "As the only country to be victimized by an atomic bomb and experiencing its ravages, we have the noble responsibility to the human race and the future of the Earth to pass on the memories of this tragedy to the next generation."
A translation of Mr. Noda's Nagasaki remarks is here.
TV Asahi coverage of the Peace Memorial Ceremony in Hiroshima. goo.gl/wrC5N
- John V. Roos (@AmbassadorRoos) August 9, 2012
Japan is also wrestling with nuclear issues in the wake of the Fukushima meltdown crisis in March of last year. The government shut down all 50 of the nation's reactors, although two plants were recently restarted. Many in Japan are resigned to the need for nuclear plants to generate Japan's need for electricity. Many others are fearful, and some are angry. 
 "At 6 p.m. every Friday - with the kind of precision timing the Japanese live by - the protests in downtown Tokyo begin," said a report Wednesday on NPR describing "Japan's summer of discontent" over nuclear power. 
"Thousands of Japanese - young, old, in wheelchairs and on skateboards - shout anti-nuclear slogans from behind police barricades that snake around the office of Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda. Over the past four months, the protests have swelled; at least 75,000 people turned out at a recent demonstration."
But two weeks ago, as my colleague Hiroko Tabuchi reported, a gubernatorial candidate running on an antinuclear agenda lost a closely watched race in western Japan, "underscoring the challenges opponents of nuclear energy face in translating recent mass protests into votes." 
Noam Chomsky with a somber reflection on the 67th anniversary of Hiroshima and Nagasaki:... fb.me/19rAd8oop
- Disarm(@Disarm) August 7, 2012
"The Making of the Atomic Bomb," the 1988 Pulitzer Prize-winning book by Richard Rhodes, has just been republished after 25 years, and Mr. Rhodes was interviewed this week by The Economist. (The audio is here.) He laments the proliferation of atomic weapons and nuclear states, saying that "we could, without any really great effort, destroy the human world." 
A new documentary, "Atomic Bomb Home," chronicles the recollections of Nagasaki survivors. The filmmaker, Katsumi Sakaguchi, spent two years interviewing elderly survivors at a nursing home outside Nagasaki. "This movie has become the last will and testament for some people," said Mr. Sakaguchi, quoted by the Asahi Shimbun.
The survivors - known in Japan as hibakusha - sometimes told their stories with tears streaming down their faces, even six decades later. Robert Jay Lifton also wrote about the post-traumatic stress of the hibakusha in "Death in Life: Survivors of Hiroshima."
When recounting their stories, he said, the survivors were "unable to remain open to experience of this intensity for any length of time."
"Very quickly - sometimes within minutes or even seconds - hibakusha began to undergo a process of 'psychic closing-off'; that is, they simply ceased to feel."
Mr. Lifton tells of a Hiroshima grocer watching stunned survivors trudging down a road right after the blast, their skin blackened, their hair burned off, "like walking ghosts" who "didn't look like people of this world." A history professor told of seeing "blue phosphorescent flames rising from the dead bodies - and there were plenty of them." 
Keiko Kawamoto, a preschooler at the time, told the Asahi Shimbun that she was buried beneath the rubble of her house in Hiroshima on Aug. 6. Her grandmother, father and uncle were killed. But until last year she had never spoken of her memories, not even to her only daughter.
 "Too painful," she said.
But one day last April she was watching a TV report about the unfolding nuclear disaster in Fukushima. A woman in her 20s was watching with her, and asked, "Did they also distribute box lunches and create evacuation centers in Hiroshima?" 
Ms. Kawamoto was shocked that the young woman could have thought that box lunches might have been available amid the fiery chaos and near-total destruction. Since then, she said, she has felt compelled to speak out, if only to prevent in Fukushima the kind of discrimination that she and other survivors encountered after 1945. 
Her uncle, for example, who was apparently sick with radiation poisoning, was declared off-limits to his own family, for fear he might be contagious. 
"Thinking about it now, there was no possibility of his illness being contagious," said Ms. Kawamoto, 77. "The prejudices held at the time were incredible."
She also recalled the first thing her husband asked when their daughter was born, nearly a quarter-century later: "Does she have all of her arms and legs?"
Andrew Revkin wrote on the New York Times blog Dot Earth about a new strain of Japanese films that was spawned by the nuclear attacks in 1945. 
"After the Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombings the imagery exploded into an entire genre of movies with gigantic insects and other horrors," he wrote. "Audiences quailed at the monsters, imagining that they were plausible consequences of radiation."
Associated fears are present even today. 
The Economist, in a commentary this week titled "Nuclearphobia," spoke to Akemi Makuta, 40, in her maternity bed in a town about 25 miles from Fukushima. 
Since the nuclear disaster last year, Ms. Makuta said, "radiation has been preying on my mind the whole time." 
"It makes her stop her elder children picking flowers, jumping in puddles, and touching wet umbrellas," the article said. "She doesn't like taking her newborn daughter, Mika, out for walks. She knows this is bad for her children's well-being, but she cannot stop taking precautions.
"What she is rarely told is that, according to health experts, her fear of radiation may be more harmful than the radiation itself. This is an issue of deep controversy."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); POWER PLANTS (86%); WORLD WAR II (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); GRANDPARENTS (77%); ACUTE RADIATION SYNDROME (77%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); CLOSINGS (62%); GOVERNORS (60%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (54%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%) Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant (Japan); Nuclear Energy; Radiation; Hiroshima (Japan); Nagasaki (Japan); Featured; View From Asia

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%); TV ASAHI CORP (53%)

TICKER: 9409 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (53%)

PERSON: YOSHIHIKO NODA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (71%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (92%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (92%); CHUGOKU, JAPAN (91%) JAPAN (97%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) Hiroshima (Japan); Nagasaki (Japan)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



315 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: A Bipartisan Proposal for More Equity in Big Banks

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: A bipartisan proposal that would require banks to keep more capital on hand would force them to assume a bigger share of the risks they take, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Proponents of the status quo in the financial sector just cannot catch a break. Early August is supposed to be a time when regulators and markets slow down, or perhaps even take a vacation. But this year news of mismanagement or worse continues to emerge from complex financial institutions.
It's time for a new approach to bank capital. A proposal by two United States senators is not a panacea, but it would have a significant effect on big banks and how they operate.
Earlier this week, Standard Chartered, a large global bank (about $600 billion in total assets) based in Britain was accused of breaking American law in its dealings with Iran and other countries under financial sanctions imposed by the United States. 
The complaint, lodged by New York State's Department of Financial Services, suggests that the bank's executives deliberately deceived regulators. The complaint says in part: 
For almost 10 years, SCB schemed with the Government of Iran and hid from regulators roughly 60,000 secret transactions, involving at least $250 billion and reaping SCB hundreds of millions of dollars in fees. SCB's actions left the U.S. financial system vulnerable to terrorists, weapons dealers, drug kingpins and corrupt regimes, and deprived law enforcement investigators of crucial information used to track all manner of criminal activity.
If these accusations are correct, someone was taking huge risks with the bank's reputation by breaking the law. 
StanChart, as the bank is sometimes known, is pushing back hard against these accusations. This reminds me of Robert E. Diamond Jr., the chief executive at Barclays, who came under pressure and responded by trying to take on the Bank of England - until he was forced out. 
Bankers benefit from a great deal of state protection and subsidies. It is unwise for them to break the rules and then turn on the people seeking to enforce the law. Standard Chartered's banking license in the United States could easily be revoked - and it should be revoked if the charges are accurate. 
At the same time, the near failure in recent days of Knight Capital further illustrates the risks inherent in running a complex securities trading operation. Some sort of programming error resulted in the company's buying stocks it did not want and quickly suffering large losses of about $440 million. The Securities and Exchange Commission understandably declined to let the company have a "do over," i.e., withdraw the trades.
Brad Hintz, a banking analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, drew one lesson:
Knight Capital should remind investors how the investment banks became bank holding companies four years ago; markets froze, confidence was lost, funding dried up and a reluctant central bank was forced to step in to save the U.S. capital markets.
Mr. Hintz is right that "as investors learned in 2008-2009, the most significant risk to any major broker-dealer is a loss of confidence.'' But he then draws the policy conclusion that securities trading operations should remain inside megabanks, where they can be backed by essentially unlimited credit from the Federal Reserve.
It's precisely the prospect of unlimited and typically unconditional support from central banks that encourages moral hazard - meaning that bank management is not sufficiently careful. If we increase the government backing and implicit subsidies for megabanks, will they take bigger or smaller reckless risks? What would you do?
A much better approach would be to force large financial institutions to increase their equity funding relative to how much they borrow. When the business is riskier and when its failure would have more dire consequences for the economy, we want any potential bankruptcy to become much less likely.
Senators Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, and David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, made this point in a powerful letter this week to Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman. With regard to the Fed's proposed rules for how large banks fund themselves, the senators write:
We urge you to revisit your proposed rule and modify it so that megabanks fund themselves with proportionately more loss-absorbing capital per dollar of assets than smaller regional or community banks. The surcharge on the megabanks should be high enough that it will either incent them to become smaller or will help to ensure they can weather the next crisis without another taxpayer bailout.
The letter is well argued and should be required reading for everyone concerned about financial sector stability. "More capital" is sometimes used as a rhetorical smokescreen by people who actually do not want any reform; in contrast, Senators Brown and Vitter are pressing the Fed on the right specifics - and for amounts of equity funding that would really make a difference.
Highly leveraged financial institutions do not have the incentive to be careful; their executives get the upside when things go well, and the downside is someone else's problem. Executives and traders in megabanks are paid based on their return on equity unadjusted for risk. 
As Anat Admati and her colleagues have been asserting, these executives want to have less equity and more debt, and they don't care about how this affects the rest of the financial system.
Bigger banks are more dangerous. They should either have to fund themselves with much more equity or break themselves up. Their executives can choose.
The financial sector should take up this issue because megabank behavior has become so bad that it damages everyone's business. Investor confidence has taken a beating precisely because highly leveraged financial institutions get into so much trouble. As Dennis Kelleher of Better Markets put it on his blog: 
It's not the fundamentals computer trading Wall Street misconduct one scandal after another. It is the fundamentals computer trading Wall Street scandals lots more. To ignore or deny the effect of the daily drumbeat of Wall Street mishaps and misconduct like the Knight Capital implosion, JPMorgan's London Whale losses, the metastasizing Libor Scandal, HSBC and Standard Chartered criminal conduct, plus the Facebook and BATS listings debacles and high-frequency trading incidents like the Flash Crash (not to mention the rot revealed by the 2008 financial crisis like no-accountability bailouts and Goldman's Abacus deal) is to deny reality, how investors think and how markets work.
Fair or unfair, all of those incidents plus the lousy fundamentals combine to give people the impression or belief that the markets are a bad investment, that they are rigged, that the professional insiders have an advantage, that whoever has the fastest computer wins and that individuals and ordinary investors just don't stand a chance.
As Senators Brown and Vitter suggest, we should increase the required equity funding for megabanks to make them safer, to improve their behavior, and to help restore investor confidence. More equity funding for megabanks is not sufficient; we need more taxpayer safeguards, including regulatory fail-safes. But it is essential if these banks are ever to become better run.

        
Under Pressure, Biggest Banks Rely on 3 Myths
        
The Fed Should Stop Paying Banks Not to Lend
        
Lie More, as a Business Model
        
An Institutional Flaw at the Heart of the Federal Reserve
        
Dimon and the Fed's Legitimacy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); BANKING LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); CORRUPTION (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (66%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (65%); TERRORISM (51%) banking; banking regulation; barclays; capital reserves; Daily Economist; equitty funding; Federal Reserve; Simon Johnson; Standard Chatered; Brown, Sherrod; Banking and Financial Institutions; Standard Chartered Bank PLC; Today's Economist

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (61%); STANDARD CHARTERED PLC (57%); BANK OF ENGLAND (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Standard Chartered Bank PLC

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); STAN (LSE) (57%); 2888 (HKSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (61%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (61%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (61%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

PERSON: SHERROD BROWN (71%) Brown, Sherrod

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



316 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: New Lines

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political new from today's Times, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
Today's Times:

        
To attract young voters, Republicans are talking more about the economy and less about social issues. In some cases, Susan Sauly explains, the change reflects the fact that a new generation doesn't share the same positions on abortion and same-sex marriage that older Republicans endorse. In other cases, it's a pragmatic political decision by social conservatives.

        
With the Republican convention set to get under way this month, Mitt Romney's campaign is working out the tricky calculus of who should get what roles. Jeremy W. Peters writes that the "fastidiously controlled, leave-nothing-to-chance" campaign faces some hazardous choices as it tries to balance conservatives' demands with Republicans' desire to woo independent voters.

        
In the absence of an animated contest for the White House, some Congressional races are adding a to this year's elections. Jennifer Steinhauer writes about how this election has been colored by redistricting, a deluge of cash, and the continuing influence of the Tea Party, sprinkled with a few arrests and other high jinks.

        
Forget the 30-second campaign ad. Linda Lingle, a Republican Senate hopeful in Hawaii, has a 24-hour cable channel devoted to her campaign. The channel is "a first-of-its-kind venture in campaign advertising in this country, reflecting the continued push by candidates to break through the rising clatter of political advertising," but also demonstrating how Republicans are willing to pour cash into a campaign they hope will help them to gain control of the Senate, Adam Nagourney writes.

        
 In an aggressive effort to shed light on the workings of the secretive outside spending groups that are having an outsize and virtually unfettered influence in the election, the attorney general of New York has asked the groups to turn over federal tax returns and other documents. Nicholas Confessore writes that with the Internal Revenue Service facing competing pressures from Democrats and Republicans over its oversight of politically active and tax-exempt "social welfare" organizations, Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman is scrutinizing the groups as part of a broader inquiry into tax-exempt organizations.

        
 President Obama's top counterterrorism adviser dismissed accusations -- lodged by Republicans -- that the Obama administration has disclosed classified information for political gain as "specious and false" but defended speaking openly and with discretion about national security matters, Scott Shane reports. John O. Brennan, the adviser, also said the administration was working on a way to increase defenses against computer attacks after Congress failed to pass cybersecurity legislation.
Happening in Washington:

        
Economic data expected today include weekly jobless claims and international trade data for June at 8:30 a.m., followed by weekly mortgage rates and wholesale trade inventories for June at 10.

        
At noon, representatives of a coalition of voting rights advocates will hold a news conference to announce the release of the Elections Protection smartphone app, which will allow users to check their voter registration and locate polling places.

        
The Early Word: Fixed Battle Lines
        
The Early Word: Bull's-Eye
        
The Weekend Word: Back to School
        
The Early Word: Recess
        
The Early Word: Taxing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (73%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); REDISTRICTING (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (67%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (64%); CYBERCRIME (62%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (62%); TAX AUTHORITIES (62%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (60%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); COUNTERTERRORISM (60%); TERRORISM (60%); MARRIAGE (57%); ABORTION (57%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (57%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (50%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



317 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: The 2012 Cycle: Attack, Feign Outrage, Repeat

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Negative, out-of-context attacks have come to define this presidential campaign - as has the offense that is inevitably taken by the other side. 

 BODY:
The Democratic outrage machine is in full lather.
On Wednesday, the talking heads and campaign operatives spewed angry e-mails and Twitter messages about Mitt Romney's latest television ad, which accuses President Obama of wanting to "gut" the work part of welfare to work.
"There is not an independent person that has looked at that ad, not one person that's looked at that and said it's remotely and substantially true," Robert Gibbs, a senior adviser to the president's campaign, said on MSNBC on Wednesday morning.
Last month, the outrage was directed at another Romney ad that took a few lines from Mr. Obama about roads and bridges and twisted them into disrespect for small business. The president called it "out of context" and "flat wrong." Brad Woodhouse, a Democratic spokesman, said it was "trumped up, out of context" and "fact-checked to death."
But hang on a minute. Even as they mount their high horses to complain, Democrats are eagerly delivering their own attacks seizing on a snippet or two of Mr. Romney's comments, ignoring whatever he might actually have meant in favor of a quick-and-dirty hit.
On Wednesday, a Democratic "super PAC" began running an ad that essentially accused Mr. Romney of causing the death of a woman whose husband lost his job at a company owned by Mr. Romney's Bain Capital.
Cue the umbrage.
"It's sad and disappointing that President Obama's allies would stoop to such levels in an attempt to impugn Mitt Romney's character," said Amanda Henneberg, a spokeswoman for Mr. Romney.
Negative, out-of-context attacks have come to define the 2012 presidential campaign - as has the offense that is inevitably taken. It is the height of political chutzpah, where both sides slide back and forth between perpetrator and victim with no sense of irony along the way.
"This over-the-top crying that both campaigns are doing after they landed these blows - I think the American people are sick of it," said John Weaver, a political strategist who advised Senator John McCain of Arizona for years.
The candidates and their allies should stop "this fake personal injury that they are both going through," Mr. Weaver said. "There's no whining in this business."
And yet, in this political season, the whining has been almost as loud as the barrage of negative attacks that has preceded it.
 Democrats howled last year when Mr. Romney's campaign produced an ad showing Mr. Obama saying: "If we keep talking about the economy, we're going to lose." It turns out, the clip was from 2008, and Mr. Obama was quoting an aide to Mr. McCain.
 It was Mr. Romney's turn to cry foul a few months later when Democrats gleefully jumped on Mr. Romney's saying "I like to fire people" and "I'm not concerned about the very poor." They left out the context, he complained, though Democrats paid him no heed.
 But turnabout is fair play, it seems. So when Mr. Obama said that the "private sector is doing fine," the same Republicans who insisted on context were suddenly happy to quote the president without any. Complaints came streaming in from the White House and its allies.
 And yet, even as the Democrats complained about the private-sector comments, they seized on comments Mr. Romney made the same day about teachers and firefighters. Mr. Romney doesn't care about them, they said, ignoring whatever context there might have been to his remarks.
 However much they talked about the importance of context, Mr. Romney's campaign left most of it out in a barrage of ads showing the president saying: "If you've got a business, you didn't build that. Somebody else made that happen." He was talking about roads and bridges, a point that was ignored.
Mike McCurry, a former press secretary for President Bill Clinton, said neither side seems able to control the pace or intensity of the back-and-forth.
"They haven't found the volume knob," Mr. McCurry said.
"There used to be at least a sliding scale of what level of vitriol you would use in a campaign," he added. "You went to the highest level for the highest offense. What happens now is everyone just goes to the loudest and strongest response they can make. It just escalates the temperature of the campaign."
Negative attacks are not new. But in the age of Twitter and Facebook, neither side seems hampered by a concern that it might do something that crosses a line that the other side wouldn't.
On Wednesday, Democrats eagerly spread around a Huffington Post article about some of Bain Capital's initial outside financing coming from a group of Central American oligarchs. The article alleges that some of the investors may have also been financing death squads in El Salvador. The subject line of the e-mail from Mr. Woodhouse read simply: "Death Squads."
Over the weekend, Republicans seized on a lawsuit in Ohio by Mr. Obama's campaign that seeks to allow early voting for all residents, not just military families and those living overseas. In Mr. Romney's telling, though, the lawsuit was an attack on military families.
Each sides has expressed its disdain that the other would stoop so low.
"I remember feigning outrage myself on some days," said Mr. McCurry. "But not at this level. They just seem to be pounding each other."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%) Gibbs, Robert L; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Woodhouse, Brad; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2012; Elections

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%) Gibbs, Robert L; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Woodhouse, Brad

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



318 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: Thursday Reading: The Financial Problems of Parents of Olympians

BYLINE: TARA SIEGEL BERNARD


HIGHLIGHT: Taxing Olympic medalists, an e-mail service with lots of smarts, a favorable clinical trial for new prenatal gene test and other consumer-focused news from Thursday's Times. 

 BODY:

        
With interest rates low, banks increase their mortgage profits. (Dealbook)
        
Profits on carbon credits drive the output of a harmful gas. (International)
        
July was the hottest month ever recorded in the U.S. (National)
        
President Obama assails Romney on women's health care. (National)
        
Delay in Chicago fuels concern about New York bike sharing. (New York)
        
Google goes back to the drawing board on the Nexus Q. (Business)
        
A clinical trial is favorable for a new prenatal gene test. (Business)
        
Pointless but fun smartphone apps. (Business)
        
The new Hotmail/Outlook e-mail service has lots of smarts. (Business)
        
Visa and MasterCard settle lawsuit, but some merchants aren't happy. (Business)
        
Johnny's first phone: A guide for parents. (Business)
        
Phones for fading sight and hearing. (Gadgetwise)
        
Resetting a lost Twitter password. (Gadgetwise)
        
New gadgets for coping with summer's heat. (Home)
        
Should prewar bathroom fixtures be replaced before a sale? (Home)
        
Work spacesfor children. (Home)
        
Taxing Olympic medalists. (Economix)
        
Olympic bankruptcies for ordinary families. (Motherlode)
        
That Newark Airport greeter is actually a hologram. (In Transit)
        
For the very old, a surprise in blood pressure readings. (The New Old Age)
        
A design change for a bag to carry all your tech stuff. (Pogue's Posts)
        
New Google tools to make the search engine even more all-knowing. (Bits)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CLINICAL TRIALS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FAMILY (77%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (77%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); LITIGATION (70%); PARENTING (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%) Today in Your Money

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (84%); VISA INC (70%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); V (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



319 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Journal Editorial Praises Ryan for No. 2 Spot

BYLINE: GERRY MULLANY


HIGHLIGHT: A leading forum for conservative thought likes the Wisconsin congressman as a vice-presidential pick. 

 BODY:
The Wall Street Journal editorial page, a leading forum of conservative thought, had high praise Thursday for Representative Paul D.Ryan as Mitt Romney's possible running mate, citing his determination to curb entitlement spending. The editorial said that Mr. Ryan, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, had taken on entitlement spending "against the advice of every Beltway bed-wetter" concerned about the implications of such a cause.
"The case for Mr. Ryan is that he best exemplifies the nature and stakes of this election. More than any other politician, the House budget chairman has defined those stakes well as a generational choice about the role of government and whether America will once again become a growth economy or sink into interest-group dominated decline.
Against the advice of every Beltway bed-wetter, he has put entitlement reform at the center of the public agenda - before it becomes a crisis that requires savage cuts. And he has done so as part of a larger vision that stresses tax reform for faster growth, spending restraint to prevent a Greek-like budget fate, and a Jack Kemp-like belief in opportunity for all. He represents the G.O.P.'s new generation of reformers that includes such governors as Louisiana's Bobby Jindal and New Jersey's Chris Christie."
The editorial also praised another lawmaker considered high on Mr. Romney's list, Senator Rob Portman of Ohio, but noted his ties to the Bush administration and its association with the economic downturn in cautioning against his selection.
"His biggest liability is his association with the Bush administration. Many voters still blame President Bush for our current economic troubles, and the Obama campaign would use Mr. Portman to reinforce its claim that Mr. Romney is Bush 2.0."
The editorial also said that former Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty would be a "safe, mature choice" whose working-class roots could counterbalance "the stereotype of Mr. Romney as too rich and disconnected to average concerns."
The editorial comes as Mr. Ryan is drawing more accolades from conservatives as part of what some see as a movement by them to push Mr. Romney in the direction of selecting Mr. Ryan for the ticket.

        
If Romney Calls, I Would ...
        
Georgetown Faculty Latest to Chide Ryan
        
Christie a Favored Vice-Presidential Pick, Polls Find
        
A Call for Lower-Key Debate on Debt Limit
        
House G.O.P. and Obama Have 'Frank Conversation' on Debt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); DEBT CEILING (77%); GOVERNORS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); TAX REFORM (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (54%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%) Paul Ryan; Bush, George W; Portman, Rob; Romney, Mitt; Ryan, Paul D Jr; Presidential Election of 2012; Wall Street Journal; Elections; The Caucus

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Wall Street Journal

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (94%); MITT ROMNEY (92%); ROB PORTMAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BOBBY JINDAL (50%) Bush, George W; Portman, Rob; Romney, Mitt; Ryan, Paul D Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



320 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: 10 Questions for an Undecided Voter in Ohio

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: In the tight race for the White House, President Obama and Mitt Romney are spending millions to reach America's small slice of undecided voters. John Harwood of The Times and CNBC interviewed one such voter in northeast Ohio. 

 BODY:
In the tight race for the White House, President Obama and Mitt Romney are spending millions of dollars to reach America's small slice of undecided voters -- people like Rosemary Pallen of northeast Ohio. 
Ms. Pallen, a 62-year-old mother of two grown children, manages her husband's dental office and worries about the stagnant economy. "In our business, we're seeing more and more people on Medicaid -- the middle class," she said. "They're hurting. Kids are coming out of school with $200,000 in loans. They can't buy a house, they can't buy a car. Gas prices at $4? We can't go anywhere."
Once a Democrat, then a Republican and now an independent, Ms. Pallen has grown increasingly disaffected from politics, which makes her a tough sell for the campaigns trying to court her. John Harwood of The Times and CNBC interviewed her at a suburban shopping center in Wadsworth, about 40 miles south of Cleveland. The following is a condensed, edited transcript of their conversation.
Q.
 How much attention are you paying to the presidential race right now?
A.
 If it's on, I listen. Mostly I turn it off.
Q.
 You don't seek out information, or try to watch the TV ads?
A.
 Oh no. They absolutely get muted. 
Q.
 Are you starting to get bombarded, in addition to the ads, with mail and phone calls from the campaigns?
A.
 Phone calls -- totally hanging up on those people, too. Annoying. Very annoying.
Q.
 Have you followed the back-and-forth between the two campaigns over Romney's statements on his foreign trip, or Obama's statements like "the private sector's doing fine?"
A.
 I heard some of it but I don't even recall what it was about. Kids in a playground having a little fight and a little tiff. Just throwing out names saying 'You did this.' 'You did that.' You don't know what the truth is.
Q.
 Do you see big philosophical differences between Obama and Romney, and what difference might it make in your life?
A.
 They're on their own agendas. Romney's going to push through for big business. I'm not sure what Obama's doing.
I don't see either party giving me any benefits whatsoever in my life, because there's such a deadlock. They're equally to blame. You've got Congress and the Senate and the Republicans and the Democrats -- they're not going to meet in the middle. They don't care about the middle-class person. They've got all the lobbyists in their back pocket. We elect them, but they don't listen to us.
Q.
 You've got a House race in this district between two incumbents thrown together in redistricting -- the Republican Jim Renacci, and the Democrat, Betty Sutton. How does that feel to you?
A.
 I don't know anything about either one of them. I have no opinion.
Q.
 There's been a lot of talk that Romney might pick Rob Portman, the senator from Ohio, as his running mate. What do you think of Portman?
A.
 Don't know anything about Rob Portman. Doesn't do anything to my vote. He's up there and there's like two or three others -- I couldn't tell you their names. I think (Romney) should choose a woman.
Q.
 Will you watch both parties' conventions?
A.
 Absolutely not.
Q.
 What about the debates -- will you watch those?
A.
 Yes. Just to see how they react, how they take the pressure of the questions. And mostly for the fighting with each other -- to prove a point that they're not going to work together.
Q.
 When do you think there will be a point in the election when you do tune in?
A.
 Maybe until a day or two before -- when I might have to make a decision, if I decide to make a decision.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); MEDICAID (72%); TRANSCRIPTS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); SUBURBS (70%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (68%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (54%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Ohio; Elections

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Ohio

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



321 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Evil Bain and the Evil Empire

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: The latest political ads are truly preposterous. 

 BODY:
Political ads twist the truth, create false impressions, prey on voters' most primal fears or just lie outright. We all know this; but that doesn't make the most recent exchange in the presidential campaign any less reprehensible.
A Super PAC working in support of President Obama released an ad Tuesday morning that suggests - well, more like hits you over the head and rubs your face in the idea - that Mitt Romney was responsible for a woman dying of cancer. A guy named Joe Soptic worked at a company that collapsed after a takeover by Mr. Romney's Bain Capital. He lost his health insurance. His wife got cancer. She had no insurance. She died. Mr. Romney is a bad, bad man who should not be president.


Media analysts have poked holes in the ad's narrative, including the question of whether Mr. Romney had "operational control" over Bain at the time of the plant's closing, the timing of the woman's death, and her insurance history. None of that really matters. Mitt Romney did not kill that woman.
His campaign responded, rather maladroitly, by suggesting that Mr. Soptic would have had insurance if he'd lived in Massachusetts, where Mr. Romney instituted just the kind of insurance reform that he says will kill the economy.
Then, it released its own totally preposterous ad-one that accuses Mr. Obama of declaring a "war on religion" and "forcing religious institutions to go against their faith." That's a reference to the new health care rule, which requires employers to provide women workers with coverage for birth control. That law includes an exemption for churches, and a special work-around for religiously affiliated institutions-but naturally the ad doesn't mention these details.
In the next scene, we find Mr. Romney in Poland, talking in that odd sing-song that he uses to simulate gravitas. In 1979, he said, Pope John Paul II "spoke words that would bring down an empire: Be not afraid."
The ad asks "when religious freedom is threatened, who do you want to stand with?"
Mr. Romney, right? Because Mr. Romney is the Pope, or Lech Walesa, or Solidarity, or basically all fighters for freedom from tyranny. And Mr. Obama is the evil empire.
So there we have it, a clear contrast that should help undecided voters make up their minds: A man personally responsible for a woman's death, or a man who personifies the Soviet Union.

        
Health Care Confusion
        
Job Creation vs. Profit Creation
        
Too Conservative, or Just Extremely Conservative?
        
Gutting Welfare
        
If It Works in Israel...

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ADVERTISING (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); DEATHS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); RELIGION (89%); HEALTH CARE (86%); WOMEN (79%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INSURANCE (74%); INSURANCE LAW (74%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (69%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (69%); JOB CREATION (64%) Bain Capital; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; Political Advertising; Soviet Union; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) POLAND (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



322 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Obama Draws Contrast With Romney on Wind Energy Tax Credit

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama's attacks followed days of veiled criticism of Mitt Romney's stance by Republican leaders in Colorado and Iowa, both election battlegrounds. 

 BODY:
 PUEBLO, Colo. - Speaking not far from a wind turbine manufacturing plant here on the hot plains, President Obama on Thursday contrasted his support for keeping alive an expiring tax credit for wind energy producers with the opposition of Mitt Romney to that subsidy and others for clean energy alternatives to oil.
Mr. Obama's attacks followed days of veiled criticism of Mr. Romney's stance by Republican leaders in Colorado and Iowa, both election battlegrounds that are among the leading states in trying to harness wind power. The issue dogged Mr. Romney on Wednesday in Iowa and last week in Colorado. 
 "The wind industry supports about 5,000 jobs across this state," Mr. Obama told about 3,500 people crammed into a cavernous building on the state fairgrounds in Pueblo. "Without those tax credits, 37,000 American jobs, potentially including hundreds of jobs right here, would be at risk."
 With the crowd's applause drowning out his words, Mr. Obama said the country should stop spending $4 billion a year to subsidize a profitable oil industry and should instead invest in the promise of clean-energy alternatives to compete with China and other countries.
The tax credit has been repeatedly extended by Congress and presidents for two decades, but it is scheduled to expire at the end of the year. Mr. Romney's campaign recently said that he would let the credit die because it amounted to a violation of free-market principles, a position that is popular with Tea Party conservatives if not with clean-energy proponents.
Amanda Henneberg, a spokeswoman for the Romney campaign, said: "Unfortunately, under President Obama's approach of massive subsidies and handouts, the industry has lost 10,000 jobs while growth in wind power has slowed every single year of his term. Now he wants to 'double down' for another year on this failed approach at a cost of $12 billion. Governor Romney will instead set the industry on a course for success and growth by promoting policies that remove regulatory barriers, support free enterprise and market-based competition, and reward technological innovation."
Mr. Obama's reference to the wind energy credit was wedged into his broader stump speech contrasting his budget and tax cut proposals for the middle class with Mr. Romney's. Pueblo was the third stop in a two-day swing through Colorado, where polls show the rivals in a close race and where the economy's slow recovery is acting as a drag on the president's support.
From Pueblo, Mr. Obama was to head to Colorado Springs, venturing into a largely conservative region to encourage his supporters there and maximize turnout in the state - "leaving no stone unturned," as Obama campaign documents often say.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TURBINE MFG (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CAUCUSES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%) Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2012; Colorado; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (92%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: PUEBLO, CO, USA (94%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (73%) COLORADO, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Colorado

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012



323 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1467 words

HEADLINE: Aug. 9: National Polls Shouldn't Panic Romney

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama received favorable polls on Thursday from CNN and Fox News, the importance of which could easily be overstated. 

 BODY:
President Obama got a couple of very good-looking polls on Thursday. A CNN poll put him seven points ahead of Mitt Romney in the national race. And a Fox News poll gave Mr. Obama a nine-point lead.
Some polling firms, like Pew Research, have consistently shown strong numbers for Mr. Obama. When a polling firm like that prints another strong number for him, it isn't necessarily news.
Mr. Romney cannot use that excuse in the case of the Fox News and CNN polls. CNN's surveys so far this cycle have had essentially no partisan lean, whereas Fox News's polls have shown a modest Republican one. Mr. Obama's number was strong not just in an absolute sense, but also relative to their earlier polls.
In the Real Clear Politics average of national polls, Mr. Obama's lead grew to 4.4 percentage points on Thursday. That's his largest lead by its method since early April, when Mitt Romney was just starting to recover from a rough stretch in the primary campaign.
And yet, despite all that, I think the importance of these new polls could easily be overstated -- and probably will be by some in the news media.

One problem is that the trend toward Mr. Obama in national polls has hardly been uniform. The Gallup national tracking poll has shown a very flat race. And Rasmussen Reports had a swing toward Mr. Romney in its release on Thursday, with his pulling ahead by four points in its survey. Weekly tracking polls from Public Policy Polling and YouGov have also not shown especially good numbers for Mr. Obama lately. If there had really been a shift in the race of the magnitude that the Real Clear Politics average implies -- it has Mr. Obama gaining three points on Mr. Romney over roughly the past 10 days -- we probably wouldn't be seeing these contradictory data points.
Perhaps more importantly, there hasn't really been a lot of news to drive something on the order of a three-point swing toward Mr. Obama. There have been far more momentous news events at earlier stages of the campaign, like the Supreme Court's ruling on Mr. Obama's health care bill, or the set of poor jobs reports in April through June, that didn't seem to move the numbers much at all. So your default position should be one of skepticism toward the numbers having moved very much. 
Might Mr. Obama have gained half a point, or a point, based on whatever residual factors that voters are thinking about? Sure, and Mr. Romney would rather that movement be in his direction instead. But has Mr. Obama gained three points, at a time when most ordinary Americans are watching the Olympics? Probably not.
From a more technical standpoint, my research suggests that one should not be overly eager to chase down the latest trend at this stage of the campaign. Some of our friendly competitors, like Talking Points Memo, use a technique called Loess regression to calculate a polling trendline. Our methodology is not quite the same as theirs, but we do use a version of Loess regression to calculate our trendline adjustment.
Loess regression is a nice technique, but one of its quirks is that you have to manually choose what's called a "smoothing parameter." You can set the smoothing parameter to be highly sensitive to new data points -- a couple of new polls will swing the trendline a lot -- or relatively insensitive to them, where a change might have to be sustained for a couple of weeks to make much difference.
In designing this year's model, I went back and looked at what choice of smoothing parameters would have produced the most accurate predictions in past presidential elections dating back to 1972. The research suggested that the answer actually depends on which stage of the campaign you're in.
In the late stages of the campaign -- the final six weeks or so before the election -- it's worthwhile to be reasonably (but not excessively) aggressive. More and more voters will be paying attention to the campaign, and making up their minds once and for all about whom they're going to vote for. Polling gets more accurate as you get closer to the election, but the trend is not linear: it gets a bit more accurate throughout the summer months, but then a more accurate within these final six weeks.
Right now, however, it's better to be quite conservative. A poll released on Aug. 9 is just not going to be all that much more informative than one released on July 9, especially if there haven't been major intervening news events during the period. The trendlines you see at some other Web sites are probably fluctuating upward and downward much more than they should.
Loess regression is a fairly "smart" method, and even a conservative application of it could still potentially perceive a shift in the polls in the summer. Certainly, if the national tracking polls had also shown a shift toward Mr. Obama, we would be seeing some fireworks in the model right now.
Even then, however, national polls are just one of the things you should be looking at to make an election forecast. The other critical factors are state polls and the economic numbers. Our model hedges against the national polls by combining the state polls with them, and then also, hedges against the polls in general by combining them with our economic index. Of these three things, the national polls probably have the influence on the forecast at this stage of the campaign.
To be clear, the model has shown a favorable trend for Mr. Obama lately. His chances of winning the Electoral College rose to 73.3 percent on Wednesday, a new high. His projected margin of victory over Mr. Romney in the national popular vote, 2.8 percentage points, is also a new high.
But the shift is more because the consensus of evidence has been favorable to Mr. Obama than any one piece of evidence pointing toward a major inflection point in the race. 
The economic numbers are still very mixed, but the jobs report was better in July, personal income growth has been accelerating and the stock market has been rallying. I'm certainly not going to render a prediction about the long-term future of the euro zone, but it now seems less likely that it will blow up soon enough to substantially affect the election in November. (Perhaps whichever candidate wins will have a huge mess on his hands in 2013 instead.)
Mr. Obama has also had a fairly strong set of polls from swing states. It's just not a good sign for Mr. Romney that he's down in almost all polls of Ohio, and more often than not, in polls of Florida and Virginia as well -- although he has posted some better numbers in Colorado recently.
Finally, and despite my earlier caution about how time in a campaign should be measured on a relative rather than absolute scale, we are seeing some time tick off the clock. Mr. Obama is almost certainly ahead right now, so any day that the status quo is preserved is basically a good one for him.
Despite that, it is doubtful that Mr. Obama leads by as many as four or six points now (as some other polling aggregation Web sites suggest), and even more doubtful that he is seven or nine points ahead.
In addition to the issue I mentioned earlier about potentially placing too much weight on new data points, most of the other polling sites do not adjust polls on the basis of whether they were conducted among registered voters or likely voters. Our model does, and it assumes -- based on historical trends as well as what data we have from this year -- that Mr. Romney will perform about two points better in polls of likely voters than polls of registered voters.
This will not be a big issue in the state polls, the vast majority of which are already being conducted on a likely voter basis. But most of the recent national polls, including the Fox News and CNN polls, reported results among registered voters instead. If you take the Real Clear Politics national polling average and apply our likely voter adjustment to it, it would place Mr. Obama ahead by somewhere in the neighborhood of two-and-a-half or three points right now, which is almost exactly how our model sees the race.
This is not to suggest that Mr. Romney has nothing to worry about. Polls like the Fox News survey may be outliers, but as I noted on Wednesday, even the outliers tell you something about the central tendency. The fact that Mr. Obama's outliers show him as many as nine or 10 points ahead, while Mr. Romney at best gets polls that show him three or four points up, is not a good sign for him.
Another concerning fact for Mr. Romney is that the spread between the horse-race polls and Mr. Obama's approval ratings has been widening of late. Real Clear Politics -- drawing from almost exactly the same set of polls that show a 4.4-point lead for Mr. Obama in the horse race -- have Mr. Obama's approval ratings almost exactly break-even instead. 
The split may be caused by voters who 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (96%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TRENDS (75%); STATISTICS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); SUPREME COURTS (60%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012; CNN; Fox News Channel; Polling

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: CNN; Fox News Channel

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (93%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



324 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Manchester United Prices I.P.O. at $14 a Share

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Manchester United on Thursday priced its initial public offering at $14 a share, valuing the 134-year-old English soccer team at about $2.3 billion. The price is below the range of $16 to $20 it outlined last week. 

 BODY:
9:52 p.m. | Updated 
As publicly traded stocks, professional sports teams have generally been losers. Manchester United, one of the world's most popular soccer clubs, will soon find out whether its winning ways on the field will make it a rare exception.
It is off to a rough start. On Thursday, Manchester United, which raised $4.3 billion, priced its offering at $14 a share, below the expected range.
The bigger test will come on Friday when the shares start trading. Investors will then decide whether they want to own a company whose fortunes are largely dependent on the performance of players like forward Wayne Rooney and goalkeeper David de Gea. Last season, the team failed to win a title, potentially costing the company millions of dollars in broadcasting revenue.
"Pro franchises don't throw off a lot of profitability," said Robert A. Boland, a professor of sports business at New York University's Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management. "They function more like real estate."
The markets haven't been kind to sports teams. The Boston Celtics went public in 1986 and the Cleveland Indians in 1998. But the stocks struggled, and both were taken private in the last decade.
Against that backdrop, Manchester United's choice of listing locale seems especially odd. It is headquartered in the Cayman Islands and is one of the most popular teams in the world. But, in the United States, soccer trails in popularity to football, baseball and basketball.
With its I.P.O., Manchester United is looking to take advantage of new regulation, the JOBS Act, which is intended to help private companies raise capital. Under the American rules, the owners, the Glazer family, can take the company public and still maintain control through a dual share structure.
Founded in 1878 by railway workers, Manchester United has long been one of England's most famous teams, with 19 league titles to its credit. Over its history, the team has changed hands several times, spending 14 years on the public markets.
In 2005, the American businessman Malcolm Glazer took the team private in a $1.45 billion deal. The Glazer family, which also owns the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, loaded the company with hundreds of millions of dollars in debt.
The question is whether the team can produce returns for its newest group of owners, public investors.
Last year, the company earned $20.4 million from continuing operations, like sponsorships, retail and merchandising, as well as new media and mobile platforms. Those business lines have recorded three consecutive annual increases in revenue.
But profits are also subject to the unpredictable nature of the business. A weak record or injured superstar can make the earnings relatively volatile. Sports teams also tend to reinvest any cash into sprucing up their stadiums or acquiring new talent, not rewarding shareholders.
Sports bankers indicate that the biggest payoff comes from the eventual sale of a franchise, not holding the stock. The latest generation of owners have come from Wall Street, well versed in retooling a business for potential buyers.
Such economics are a big reason sport teams rarely make good public stock.
While several sports teams are owned by publicly traded companies, they are generally supported by more prosaic businesses. Madison Square Garden, which owns the New York Knicks and the New York Rangers, derives a significant portion of its revenue from television licensing and advertising fees. The Atlanta Braves have been owned by Turner Broadcasting, Time Warner and now the Liberty Media Group.
Other teams are bankrolled by wealthy families or groups of investors, with the resources and devotion to deal with the down years. The Mara family has owned the New York Giants for decades.
That's because the public markets can put teams under pressure to assuage investors looking for short-term gains, at the expense of investing in talent, according to sports advisers. Partly in response, Manchester United's stock is set up so that buyers of the shares have far less say in the team's management than the Glazers, although such arrangements have been criticized by corporate governance experts.
Teams also want to keep their financial information hidden from prying eyes. Such data can prove useful when players' salaries are being negotiated. Mr. Boland said, "The last thing you want Scott Boras to know is how much your team is making," referring to the noted agent for professional athletes.
American sports leagues are not enamored with the idea of teams being owned by public shareholders, worried by the potential complexity and added financial disclosure. The N.F.L. requires that the principal owner of a franchise, including family members, control about 30 percent, with no more than 32 owners in total. The only exception is the Green Bay Packers, which received a waiver.
Other sports leagues have been similarly reluctant to allow a broad ownership, and must approve any drastic change to a team's structure. Such concentrations allows the leagues to pool resources together more easily, such as providing a financial lifeline to a struggling team.
The Green Bay Packers are structured as a publicly held corporation, though trading in the shares is strictly limited and the stock pays no dividends. Several Premier League soccer clubs have been publicly traded at one time or another.
But the stocks have generally performed poorly. In 1998, the Cleveland Indians went public at $15, quickly fell to under $10, then rose on the prospect of a sale. In 2000, Larry Dolan bought the team for $320 million.
"If I'm a publicly traded company, I want 15 percent growth every quarter or every year," Mr. Boland said. "Many sports teams usually generate a small profit or a loss."

        
Manchester United Trades Flat in Debut
        
Manchester United Files to Go Public

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOCCER (96%); SPORTS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (82%); ATHLETES (78%); BASEBALL (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); GOING PRIVATE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (64%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (60%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (58%) Malcolm Glazer; Manchester United; New York Stock Exchange; Glazer, Malcolm; Initial Public Offerings; Soccer; Manchester United (Soccer Team); United States; I.P.O./Offerings; Retail/Leisure

COMPANY: MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON CELTICS (55%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (55%) Manchester United (Soccer Team)

TICKER: MANU (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (90%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (90%)

PERSON: MALCOLM GLAZER (89%) Glazer, Malcolm

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (92%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (75%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2012



325 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: If Guns Do Not Kill, Tax the Bullets

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER. 
E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com; Twitter: @jimdwyernyt

 BODY:
In 1993, a United States senator with one of the great political brains of 20th-century America, Daniel Patrick Moynihan, said that we ought to forget gun control as a way to stanch criminal violence. It was hopeless, Senator Moynihan pointed out: even if the sale of new guns was totally forbidden, there were already enough guns in homes and private hands to last the country for 200 years.''These mostly simple machines last forever,'' Mr. Moynihan said.
But he wasn't through. 
''On the other hand, we have only a three-year supply of ammunition.''
His solution: Increase the tax on bullets. He wouldn't raise the tax on ammunition typically used for target shooting or hunting. But he proposed exorbitant taxes on hollow-tipped bullets designed to penetrate armor and cause devastating damage.
''Ten thousand percent,'' Mr. Moynihan said.
That would have made the tax on a 20-cartridge pack of those bullets $1,500. ''Guns don't kill people; bullets do,'' said Senator Moynihan, a Democrat who died in 2003.
Another sharp political mind, the comedian Chris Rock, argued that the price of bullets ought to be even higher than what the senator had suggested.
''If a bullet costs $5,000, there'd be no more innocent bystanders,'' he said during a routine in the film ''Bowling for Columbine.''
In June, the City of New York sold 28,000 pounds of spent shell casings to a an ammunition dealer in Georgia, where they were to be reloaded with bullets. Anyone with $15 can buy a bag of 50, no questions asked, under Georgia law. As The New York Times reported, the city has previously sold shell casings -- which are collected at the police target shooting range -- to scrap metal dealers, but in this case the highest bidder was the ammunition store.
It was perfectly legal. And jarring, considering that the mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg, has made aggressive gun regulation one of his prime causes, at no small risk to any national political ambitions he might harbor. He has arranged sting buys and filed lawsuits against firearms dealers in other states who, in his view, flouted even the easygoing regulatory regimen of recent years.
But surely, it couldn't make any sense for the city itself to put more bullets into the weapons economy by recycling casing? After all, the city destroys perfectly usable -- and sellable -- guns that it recovers from criminals. The sale of the casings must have been the product of someone in an unnoticed cubicle in city government, simply following the bidding rules by rote.
You might think that when learning about the sale, the mayor would have said, ''Thanks for the tip.''
Instead, City Hall rose in chorus to sing of the constitutional freedom to own guns and the bullets that go in them. Indeed, the city would gladly sell the next batch of shell casings to a high-bidding ammunition dealer, said John Feinblatt, the criminal justice coordinator. (The dealers of super-size soft drinks, now facing mayoral regulation, must be wondering why the founding fathers couldn't have added ''and drink soda'' after the right to ''bear arms.'')
Asked about the sale on Monday, the mayor said that people could legally own guns and bullets.
Then one of the most experienced and professional of New York television reporters, Mary Murphy of WPIX, asked Mr. Bloomberg if the city was going to change its policy and not sell shell casings to ammunition dealers. Mr. Bloomberg set forth into a minisermon about how it was an act of integrity.
''This is the public's money that we are stewards of, and deliberately deciding to sell things at lower prices than the marketplace commands makes no sense at all, and if you think about it, would create chaos and corruption like you've never seen,'' he said.
Ms. Murphy pressed on: ''Does it send the wrong message though?''
The mayor scolded her as if she were an errant schoolgirl.
''Miss, Miss,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''Either you want to ask a question and I give you an answer, or please come to the next press conference and stand in the back.''
Oh, dear.
Bill Cunningham, a former aide to Senator Moynihan and Mr. Bloomberg, said that the senator would have been delighted to discover that he was aligned on the issue with Chris Rock.
''Pat would have liked that,'' Mr. Cunningham said, ''although we'd have to answer his query, 'Who is Mr. Rock?' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA MCGOWAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FIREARMS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); CITIES (89%); GUN CONTROL (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LITIGATION (72%)

PERSON: CHRIS ROCK (50%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



326 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Male Couples Face Pressure To Fill Cradles

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When the jubilant couple were wed in June, they exchanged personalized vows and titanium rings, cheered the heartfelt toasts and danced themselves breathless. Then, as the evening was winding down, unexpected questions started popping up.One after another, their guests began asking: Are you going to have kids? When are you going to have kids?
Tom Lotito and Matt Hay, both 26, could not help but feel moved. They never imagined as teenagers that they would ever get married, much less that friends and family members would pester them about having children.
''It's another way that I feel like what we have is valid in the eyes of other people,'' said Mr. Hay, who married Mr. Lotito in June before 133 guests. 
As lawmakers and courts expand the legal definition of the American family, same-sex couples are beginning to feel the same what-about-children pressure that heterosexual twosomes have long felt.
For some couples, it is another welcome sign of their increasing inclusion in the American mainstream. But for others, who hear the persistent questions at the office, dinner parties and family get-togethers, the matter can be far more complicated.
Many gay men had resigned themselves to the idea that they would never be accepted by society as loving parents and assumed they would never have children. They grieved that loss and moved on, even as other gay men and lesbians fully embraced childless lives. So the questions can unearth bittersweet feelings and cause deep divisions within a couple over whether to have children at all, now that parenting among same-sex couples is becoming more common.
The process can be also daunting logistically and financially, as would-be parents wrestle with whether to adopt or use a surrogate. And once they have children, many same-sex couples still endure the inevitable criticism -- spoken or unspoken -- from those who remain uncomfortable with the notion of their being parents.
But support for same-sex parents is growing steadily among Americans. A Pew Research Center survey conducted in July and released last week found for the first time that a majority of people surveyed -- 52 percent -- said that gay men and lesbians should be allowed to adopt children, up from 46 percent in 2008 and 38 percent in 1999.
The shift in public opinion and the simple question -- Are you having children? -- is nothing short of a marvel to some gay men, perhaps even more so than to lesbians, for whom giving birth has always been an option.
Greg Moore, 62, a retired corporate manager in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., shakes his head with wonder when he sees young male couples chattering about their toddlers. That possibility seemed hopelessly out of reach when he and his 74-year-old husband, who have been together for 44 years and married in 2008, dreamed of having children. ''Gay people didn't have kids,'' he said wistfully. ''Straight people had kids.''
Popular culture is helping rewrite that script. Gay men who have children, or are considering having children, are becoming increasingly visible on network television. In ''Modern Family,'' the nation's most popular television show, the couple Mitchell and Cameron considered adopting a second child this past season. In ''Scandal,'' a new ABC series, a middle-aged White House staff member groused about his partner's desire to adopt a baby from Ethiopia. And this fall, a new NBC sitcom called ''The New Normal'' will feature a gay couple and their surrogate.
The shift is also reflected in census data. Between 2000 and 2010, among same-sex couples raising children, the percentage of couples with adopted children increased to 20 percent from 9 percent, according to an analysis by Gary Gates, a demographer at the Williams Institute at the University of California, Los Angeles. (Most same-sex couples with adopted children are lesbians, but gay men make up a growing share, accounting for nearly a third of such couples in 2010, up from a fifth in 2000.)
''The definition of family is unquestionably evolving,'' Dr. Gates said.
But he also noted that many Americans remain deeply opposed to gay parents raising children. Same-sex couples are explicitly prohibited from adopting in two states -- Utah and Mississippi -- and they face significant legal hurdles in about half of all other states, particularly because they cannot legally marry in those states. And some religious leaders have refused to provide adoption services to gay couples.
Roman Catholic bishops in Washington, D.C., Illinois and Massachusetts have shuttered adoption services rather than comply with requirements that they consider same-sex couples as adoptive parents.
As a result, even in Democratic strongholds like Washington, some gay men keep their dreams of having children mostly to themselves.
But for Jeff Krehely, 35, who has been married for six years, there is no escaping the question in his social circles. His friends ask. His colleagues ask. His parents are so eager that they have taken to sending birthday cards to his two cats (they call them the ''grandkitties'').
On the Fourth of July, when Mr. Krehely and his husband sipped iced coffee with several other gay couples, he knew it was only a matter of time before the subject came up. Three of the five couples said they were seriously considering adopting.
''Everyone's asking: What's your timetable? What's your plan?'' said Mr. Krehely, a policy analyst, who is still weighing whether to take the plunge.
But some gay men who have no plans to have children view the shift as something of a mixed blessing. On one hand, they welcome the sense of inclusion that comes with always being asked about children. On the other hand, they are always being asked about children.
Rudolph Chandler, 57, and George Walker, 43, who married in 2010, thought long and hard before they decided against having children. They say they greatly admire their friends who are parents. But these days, they are asked so often about their child-rearing plans that they roll their eyes oh-so-subtly when it comes up. ''It's irritating, tiring,'' said Mr. Chandler, a health economist.
John Corvino, 43, chairman of the philosophy department at Wayne State University in Detroit, has even come up with a standard response that he leavens with a dash of humor when asked if he wants children: ''To shovel the snow and mow the lawn, sure,'' he says. ''Beyond that, no.''
As for Mr. Lotito and Mr. Hay, the couple who married in June, in North Bethesda, Md., they said they were taken aback by the inquiries about children on their big night. ''I was kind of like, 'The wedding's still going on, guys,' '' Mr. Lotito said. ''It's flattering, but that's really not on my radar.''
Mr. Lotito, who handles contracts for a federal agency, said he has never really wanted children. Mr. Hay is an elementary school music teacher. ''He has like 800 children a week,'' Mr. Lotito said. ''It's nice not to have them when he comes home.''
That has not deterred friends and relatives from continuing to ask. Mr. Lotito's mother, Lisa Sanno, who dreams of grandchildren and asked about them (yet again) at the wedding, has been thinking about all the options.
At the moment, she is enamored with the idea of a surrogate who might give her son and son-in-law each a biological child. ''They're young,'' said Ms. Sanno, ever the optimist. ''Maybe they'll change their minds.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Corvino, right, and his partner, Mark Lock, with Mr. Lock's niece. Neither wants children. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); FAMILY (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (75%); GAY PARENTING (75%); PARENTING (71%); ADOPTION (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (50%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



327 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: A Mobile App for Analysts and Students of the Economy

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON, Aug 9 (Reuters) - In an effort to give economists, policy makers, business owners and citizens greater access to real-time data on the health of the nation's economy, the Census Bureau on Thursday introduced its first mobile app.The America's Economy app provides constantly updated statistics on key economic indicators, lets users set alerts for when new data will be released and makes it easy to share that data on Facebook and Twitter. 
''The release of this app is an example of our commitment to giving taxpayers faster and easier access to the statistics we produce, including the Economic Census, that impact the lives of all Americans,'' the Census Bureau director, Robert Groves, said.
The Census Bureau said the app offers the real-time statistics that are driving business hiring, sales and production decisions.
The app is currently available for Google's suite of Android-powered smartphones and tablets and will come to Apple's iPhone and iPad in the coming weeks.
The initial release of the app covers 16 economic indicators, including the unemployment rate, Gross Domestic Produce and construction spending, compiled from data from the Commerce Department's Census Bureau, the Bureau of Economic Analysis, and the Bureau of Labor Statistics, a division of the Department of Labor.
The app is part of the Census Bureau's broader Web Transformation Project. The agency has also made strides to improve the search and navigation capabilities on its Web site, and it opened up its census data to developers last month to spur innovative new platforms.
The Census Bureau said it would release two more apps over the next few months.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (96%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); SMARTPHONES (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); WEB SITES (64%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (83%); FACEBOOK INC (57%); APPLE INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (55%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (55%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



328 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Generic, but Not Cheap

BYLINE: By KATIE THOMAS

 BODY:
They are the staples of most dermatology practices: generic creams and ointments that treat everything from skin rashes to athlete's foot to scabies. Many doctors prescribe the drugs without a second thought. But increasingly, some dermatologists say, patients are complaining about a recent, mysterious and rapid rise in price.Take betamethasone dipropionate, a cream used to relieve itchy skin. In 2008, a tube cost $18.17. The medicine now costs $71.28, according to Red Book, which tracks wholesale drug prices. Permethrin cream, which kills scabies mites, cost $29.25 in 2008 but has jumped to $71.08 today.
The hefty price increases have stumped doctors and their patients. ''It seems to me that something is going on, but I don't have quantitative details,'' said Dr. Steven R. Feldman, a professor of dermatology at Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center in Winston-Salem, N.C. ''I wouldn't have thought that these old-timey, generic drugs would be very costly.''
The added revenue from the higher prices has improved the bottom lines of the handful of companies that make such drugs, and has even figured into a contested buyout of one of the companies by an India-based drug maker, Sun Pharmaceuticals. 
The phenomenon offers a window into the murky and often illogical world of drug pricing, where prices are not always driven by the usual rules of supply and demand. ''In most markets, basic economics would say the lower the price, the higher the volume,'' said Les Funtleyder, the health care fund manager for Poliwogg, a private equity and hedge fund. ''But health care isn't one of those standard markets.''
Other than pharmacy benefit managers, which manage prescription drug plans, few other players in the health care market make decisions based on cost, said Mr. Funtleyder. When doctors write a prescription, they often fail to consider the price of the drug. And since many patients have prescription drug coverage, they also often ignore the cost. The situation can create a lucrative opening for some companies, especially in a low-profile corner of the industry like dermatology, where price increases might not attract broader notice.
''You might have a lot of itchy people, but people can go around and manage O.K.'' Mr. Funtleyder said. ''A rash is not a public health emergency.''
Even so, some doctors said the prices were unacceptable. ''Patients complain about it at every office visit,'' said Dr. Mark G. Lebwohl, chairman of the National Psoriasis Foundation's medical board and of dermatology at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. ''I think it's outrageous that the cost of a generic cream -- or any cream -- exceeds the cost of a doctor's office visit.''
Most generic creams and ointments in the United States are made by three companies: Perrigo, Taro and Fougera, which was recently acquired by Sandoz, the generics division of Novartis. It is a specialized business, requiring both the right equipment and expertise. Before getting clearance to make a drug, the companies must demonstrate to the Food and Drug Administration that their creams are absorbed through the skin in the same quantities as the brand-name drugs, a more difficult task than proving that a generic pill is equivalent.
''It's much more time-consuming and expensive to get these drugs approved,'' said Brian Sheehy, managing partner of IsZo Capital, a minority shareholder in Taro, who said that increased scrutiny of manufacturing practices by the F.D.A. had raised costs and forced some companies to stop making certain drugs. So even if prices increase, ''it's still not worth anyone's time to supply the market.''
In all, the prices of more than a dozen generic dermatology drugs have increased significantly since 2010, according to the distributor Cardinal Health, which tracks price fluctuations in generic drugs. Express Scripts, the pharmacy benefit manager, found that total spending on dermatology drugs increased 18.2 percent in the first five months of 2012 over last year, driven mainly by the rising cost of individual prescriptions.
Jim Grossman, a public relations executive in Manhattan, said he was surprised when Target recently asked him to pay about $24 for the nystatin and triamcinolone antifungal cream, made by Taro, that he has used on and off for years. The drug had been on Target's list of generics that the store sells for $4.
''I can understand why the price might go up, but not go up six times all at once,'' said Mr. Grossman. He added that Target allowed him to pay the $4 price when he complained.
James Kedrowski, the interim chief executive of Taro, said the company did its best to offer fair prices to customers. But, he said, pricing structures for many of its products had gotten so low that other drug makers ''were dropping out because they couldn't make any money at it.''
That's not to say the companies aren't reaping the benefits of the price increases. In a May earnings call, Perrigo's chairman and chief executive, Joseph C. Papa, told investors that a ''favorable pricing environment'' in the company's prescription drug business was one of the reasons prescription net sales increased last quarter by 84 percent. On Monday, Taro reported that net income for the previous quarter had increased to $62.9 million from $35.7 million last year, a 76 percent increase.
Perrigo and Sandoz declined to comment on pricing strategies. In a statement, however, Sandoz said ''we believe that complex, difficult-to-make dermatology generics continue to offer great value to U.S. patients and payers.''
Whether the price increases will last is a matter of debate. Mr. Kedrowski said that in some cases prices were starting to drop again as competitors who had stopped making certain drugs saw opportunity and returned to the market. Until recently, Taro was the only producer of nystatin, he said, but now the company has four competitors. The price of the cream used by Mr. Grossman, a combination of nystatin and triamcinolone, remains elevated.
''We basically believe the market will resolve itself,'' Mr. Kedrowski said. One analyst echoed his sentiments, saying there were signs some drug prices had already begun to drop, even if it wasn't reflected in available drug pricing data, which is notoriously vague.
But not everyone agrees. The question of whether prices will stay high has become a flash point in a dispute between Sun Pharmaceuticals, which owns two-thirds of Taro, and minority shareholders who have argued that the shares are worth more than Sun is offering. In July, a special committee of the board rejected a buyout bid by Sun, describing the offer as inadequate.
Mr. Sheehy of IsZo Capital has opposed the buyout, arguing that the higher prices are here to stay. ''It's a strange situation because all of these products individually are tiny, but collectively, they're significant,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Mark Lebwohl, dermatology chairman at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan, said patients complained about the drug prices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER S. ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) GRAPHIC (GRAPHIC BY JAMES BEST Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 CHART: Rising Cost of Skin Care: The price increases for these dermatological drugs over three years range from 100 percent to over 300 percent. (Source: Truven Health Analytics Red Book)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIN DISORDERS (94%); DRUG PRICES (90%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); DERMATOLOGY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); PSORIASIS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); WHOLESALERS (75%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS WHOLESALERS (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (64%); MUTUAL FUNDS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); INDIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



329 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: New Jobless Claims Fall as Trade Deficit Narrows

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits fell unexpectedly last week, offering hope that some of last month's improvement in job growth could be sustained and give the economy a lift.Other data on Thursday showed that the deficit on the trade balance in June was the smallest in one and a half years, as the petroleum import bill dropped sharply. 
While the small trade gap suggested that the government might raise its estimate of second-quarter gross domestic product published last month, the impact was blunted by an unexpected decline in wholesale inventories.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits fell 6,000 last week to a seasonally adjusted 361,000, the Labor Department said. Economists had expected claims to rise to 370,000.
The data came on the heels of a report last week showing that in July, employers hired the most workers in five months. ''The fact that initial jobless claims have fallen back to their March lows suggests faster employment gains will continue to support consumer spending in the coming months,'' said Harm Bandholz, chief United States economist at UniCredit Research in New York.
Nonfarm payrolls increased 163,000 in July after three months of gains below 100,000. But the unemployment rate rose by a tenth of a point to 8.3 percent.
That report was the first in several weeks not affected by auto plant shutdowns, which caused wide swings in claims in July, making it difficult to get an accurate picture of the jobs market.
A separate report from the Commerce Department showed that the shortfall on the trade balance narrowed 10.6 percent in June to $42.9 billion, the smallest since December 2010, as low oil prices curbed imports.
That was below expectations of a $47.5 billion deficit. The petroleum import bill fell as the average price for a barrel of crude oil dropped by the most since 2009.
Immediately after the trade report was released, economists forecast that the initial growth estimate for second-quarter G.D.P. would be revised to as high as 2.2 percent, but they tempered those predictions after a later report showed a decline in wholesale inventories in June.
Second-quarter growth is now expected to be revised up to an annual rate of at least 1.8 percent, from 1.5 percent. The government will publish its second G.D.P. estimate later this month.
Total wholesale inventories slipped 0.2 percent, the largest fall since September, after being flat in May, as the value of petroleum stocks fell 8.7 percent, the largest drop since October 2008.
Inventories are a major component of G.D.P. and contributed about a third of a percentage point to growth in the second quarter. Trade subtracted almost a third of a percentage point.
Exports increased 0.9 percent in June to a record $185 billion, while overall imports of goods and services declined 1.5 percent to $227.9 billion.
''As long as we can keep selling more of our goods across the world, the economy can grow at a moderate pace,'' said Joel Naroff, chief economist at Naroff Economic Advisors in Holland, Pa. ''Despite all the craziness in Europe and the slowdowns in Asia, our exports managed to increase. We shipped more of just about everything except food.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (72%); IMPORT CONTROLS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



330 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: Rights for Domestic Workers

 BODY:
The California Legislature is considering a bill to extend basic labor rights to domestic workers: the nannies, cooks, baby sitters and other caregivers whose labor allows households to function smoothly, thus contributing to the larger economy. Domestic workers toil long hours for low pay, but have long been excluded from many of the fundamental protections most other workers enjoy under federal labor law.The California bill, A.B. 889, which passed the Assembly and is being debated this month in the State Senate, seeks to close that gap. It would entitle workers to overtime pay, ease eligibility requirements for workers' compensation and give them time for meals and rest breaks. 
It would also add some protections specific to domestic labor, like giving live-in employees the right to eight hours of sleep and domestic workers the right to use employers' kitchens to cook their own food.
The bill is inspired by legislation passed in 2010 in New York State after a campaign by domestic workers to shed light on the abuses that are rampant in their unregulated industry. These workers, most of them immigrant women, toil behind closed doors in private homes, often suffering in silence. The nature of their jobs makes it hard for them to organize and be noticed, much less win the protections they deserve.
Domestic workers are among a wider category of low-wage workers who are denied many basic protections under federal wage-and-hour laws. Efforts to protect other excluded employees, like home care workers and farm workers, have failed in the courts and stalled in Congress.
We hope California and other states will be willing to do what the federal government has not -- which is to set basic standards to guarantee domestic workers decent working conditions and pay.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIVATE HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OVERTIME (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (73%); FARM LABOR (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



331 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART IN REVIEW; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: Les Rogers: 'Summer Swells'

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
Half Gallery208 Forsyth Street, near Houston Street, Lower East Side
Through Sept. 2
Les Rogers's abstract paintings always involve an element of subtle self-mockery, but lately he has brought it out into the open, making it more pointed and, in a way, more substantial. He has accomplished this with that all-important feature: framing. His latest efforts are seductive trifles, painted on and framed in wood -- a single piece of plywood, to be exact. In an act of dazzling economy Mr. Rogers creates suggestions of both frame and canvas by using a router to outline a wobbly square or rectangle at the center of each panel. He touches up the groove with black and creates an instant wood-grain frame by applying a brown stain to the border area. Then he attacks the center, dispatching oil paint in assorted hues tending toward bright. His ministrations are deliciously quick and febrile; titles like ''July 1st,'' ''July 17th'' and ''February 15th'' indicate that they never take more than a day, possibly less. 
Consistent with Mr. Rogers's penchant for stylistic promiscuity, his latest efforts touch down all over the map of 20th-century American painting but still manage to look fresh. The buoyant flattened forms of ''February 15'' bring to mind the work of Arthur Dove, while the intimations of off-kilter still life in ''February 17'' can summon Alfred Maurer. ''July 26th'' suggests one of John Marin's Weehawken abstractions filtered through both Willem de Kooning's and Alex Katz's responses to the landscape. ''July 1st'' and ''July 10th'' are soft, hazy patches of color, as if Mr. Rogers were a conservative art student trying to please a painting professor of the Color Field persuasion.
These vivacious works join an extended family of object paintings that reaches from folk art, thrift shop and theatrical props to the panel paintings of Howard Hodgkin and Allan McCollum's Conceptual ''Surrogate'' installations, ranging blissfully from the ersatz to the sublime and back.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''February 15th'' by Les Rogers, part of ''Summer Swells.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY LES ROGERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



332 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Ben Heineman, Multifaceted Businessman, Dies at 98

BYLINE: By DENISE GRADY

 BODY:
Ben W. Heineman, a lawyer and corporate leader who took over railroads, created one of the nation's first conglomerates and became a close confidant and adviser to President Lyndon B. Johnson, died on Sunday in Waukesha, Wis. He was 98.The cause was a stroke, his son, Ben Jr., said.
Joseph A. Califano Jr., who was Johnson's chief domestic aide, said in an interview Thursday that the president had asked him countless times to call Mr. Heineman for advice. He said the president valued Mr. Heineman's business acumen, honesty and grasp of the laws and social programs that the Johnson administration hoped to carry out in areas like civil rights, health, education, pollution control and consumer protection. 
''More than anyone, he understood what we were trying to do,'' Mr. Califano said. ''He was quite a selfless person. He had no personal agenda. He told it like it was, which is very hard, and the most important thing you can do for a president or one of his top aides, like me, because people are usually fawning all over you.''
While he worked in law or business, Mr. Heineman often held various government jobs in Illinois, nearly all unpaid, serving Gov. Adlai E. Stevenson and Mayor Richard J. Daley of Chicago. Johnson offered him a number of posts -- ambassador to the United Nations, or head of the Commerce Department, Office of Management and Budget or the Department of Health, Education and Welfare -- all of which he declined. He did, however, serve as chairman of the White House Conference on Civil Rights.
Mr. Heineman and his family lived in an integrated neighborhood in Chicago, and he considered people who moved out because blacks moved in to be ''reprehensible.''
Apart from his government service, Mr. Heineman, who once described himself as ''a professional problem solver,'' had two successful careers: 20 years in law in Chicago, and 30 years in business. He turned toward business in 1954, when he led a group of stockholders in a proxy fight for control of the Minneapolis and St. Louis Railway, which had become known in some quarters as the ''Misery and Still Limping.''
In a letter to shareholders, Mr. Heineman's upstart group accused the railroad's managers of running a ''gravy train'' for themselves and called for ''an end to laxness, extravagance and inefficiency.''
The rebels won, and Mr. Heineman became chief executive of the railroad.
In 1956, he took over a much larger rail system, the Chicago and North Western Railway, which had been notorious for breakdowns and mismanagement. He bought new equipment, made commuter trains run on time and fought the unions, insisting that outdated jobs be eliminated. By 1964, the railroad's $5.5 million deficit turned into a $23.2 million profit.
Mr. Heineman began acquiring other businesses -- steel, clothing, chemicals -- to form Northwest Industries, one of the country's first conglomerates. In 1972, under his direction, the company sold the railroad to its employees, yielding a $200 million tax benefit to Northwest, which Mr. Heineman then used to acquire more companies. He retired from the company in 1985.
''He refused to take stock options,'' Mr. Califano said. ''He thought anyone heading a corporation should pay their own money and invest in the corporation. This country today would be so much better off if we had even a half-dozen corporate leaders like Ben Heineman. There wasn't an ounce of greed in him.''
Benjamin Walter Heineman was born on Feb. 10, 1914, in Wausau, Wis. He attended public schools and earned his pilot's license at 14. He hoped to go to Yale, but in 1930, when Mr. Heineman was 16, his father went bankrupt and committed suicide.
He went to the University of Michigan from 1930 to 1933, and then persuaded the dean of Northwestern University Law School to let him enroll a year early. He graduated in 1936 at 22, editor of the law review and at the top of his class. He worked at law firms in Chicago and then started his own, Swiren & Heineman.
During World War II, he served in Washington as assistant general counsel in the Office of Price Administration and then in North Africa with the State Department as a legal adviser, assistant director of the North African Economic Board and assistant to the ambassador to the Free French government.
In 1951, Governor Stevenson secretly appointed him a special assistant attorney general to help break up a crime ring that was cheating the state of $10 million a year in cigarette taxes. Former members of Al Capone's gang were thought to have been part of the ring, and the investigation let to many arrests. Mr. Heineman's son said that there were death threats against the family and that, for a time, he and his sister had to be driven to school by the state police, who kept sawed-off shotguns at hand.
In 1952, Mr. Heineman worked on Mr. Stevenson's presidential campaign as a speechwriter, collaborating with Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. on a speech that denounced the tactics of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, who led the hunt for Communists in the federal government. He was chairman of the Illinois Board of Higher Education from 1962 to 1969, and in 1966, when racial strife was at its worst, Mayor Daley appointed him chairman of the Chicago Civil Rights Summit Conference on Fair Housing.
Mr. Heineman served on many boards in the arts, education and charity. In 2006, he and his wife, Natalie, donated their collection of glass sculptures, valued at about $10 million, to the Corning Museum of Glass in Corning, N.Y.
Besides his son, Mr. Heineman is survived by a daughter, Martha Heineman Pieper, six grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. His wife died in 2010, after almost 75 years of marriage.
As the head of a railroad, Mr. Heineman kept his customers in mind. He told Life magazine, in 1964, ''I don't think people want glamour -- they want trains to work and work on time. The same is true in all areas of transportation. If I were in the airplane business, I'd skip the Champagne and fancy meals but break my neck to provide planes that arrived and left exactly on time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben W. Heineman, shown in the early 1960s, was chief of the Chicago and North Western Railway for nearly 30 years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB GOMEL/TIME LIFE PICTURES -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); TRAINS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); CIVIL SERVICES (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%); BUDGETS (69%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%)

COMPANY: CHICAGO & NORTH WESTERN RAILWAY CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



333 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Britain's Olympics Whiplash

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
LONDON -- We all know those days that begin in virtue with a banana for breakfast, a long session at the gym, a succession of ticks on the to-do list and a world-is-my-oyster feeling but end slouched on the couch plowing a steady course through a family-sized pack of peanut M&M's, drinking bad white wine, watching ''The Real Housewives of New York City'' and thinking life is not all it is cracked up to be.The passage from hope to despair can have a Usain-Bolt quality to it, much quicker than seems possible.
Now reverse that process, project it from the personal to the national, and you will begin to acquire some notion of the startling shift in Britain over the past couple of Olympic weeks from despondency to delight, as if the 541 members of ''Team GB'' had injected a depression-dispelling elixir into the bloodstream of the Brits. The mood swing has been whiplash-inducing. 
Herd pessimism is an interesting modern phenomenon. It is more prevalent than irrational exuberance. I suppose predicting disaster is a relief from ennui as you fiddle with the remote.
J.K. Galbraith's ''The Affluent Society'' was written in 1958 and Harold Macmillan told Brits the year before they had ''never had it so good.'' Since about then the average human being has come to consume one third more calories and live one third longer. But counting blessings is duller than imagining cataclysm.
The gloom gluttons were in overdrive in the weeks before the Olympics. Security personnel were rubbish. Strikes would paralyze the city. Olympic lanes would produce bottlenecks stretching to Brighton. Terrorists would wreak havoc. Dark clouds over a wintry London presaged a fiasco. The Guardian's front page screamed: ''What could go wrong?''
Nothing has. It has all been so perfect. Of course it has.
The sun has shone. Never has it been easier to get to work. The streets of central London are empty while up at the Olympic Park happy crowds throng. One of them was Brian Duffy, a 34-year-old investment banker (even bankers are being spared their daily dose of vitriol), who told me: ''Everyone is taking a break, a break from their worries, from recession, from negativity, and just getting behind this.''
Lucy Kellaway, writing in The Financial Times, had the admirable (and little emulated) honesty to say a disaster-auguring column penned before the Olympics ''was the biggest pile of hogwash I've ever written.'' She wanted to ''retract every whiny, ill-judged scaremongering word of it.'' The misjudged column ''was based on that very British idea that everything we do is a cock-up.''
So what went right?
Winning helps. With 22 gold medals and 48 medals in all as I write, Britain has recorded its finest performance since 1908. ''Best for a century'' is now the national watchword -- in fact best for 104 years.
The gold medals have come in 10 sports, one more than the United States at nine, prompting articles on how Britain is ''ahead of U.S.A.'' O.K., the U.S. leads Britain on overall gold medals and British golds have included one in BMX (bike motocross) and one in taekwondo, but hey. At this point it's all good.
Jessica Ennis, triumphant in the heptathlon, and Mohammed ''Mo'' Farah, victorious in the 10,000 meters, and Nick Skelton, a 54-year-old with a hip replacement and a gold medal in showjumping, and Christine Ohuruogu, winning a silver medal in the 400 meters to follow her gold four years ago, have come to symbolize a Britain free (momentarily at least) of sexism, racism, ageism and Islamophobia, one buoyant island offering its ample overcoat to all.
Ennis's father Vinnie is from Jamaica. Mo is a Somalian immigrant who arrived in Britain as a child. Ohuruogo is of Nigerian descent. Mohammed Sbihi, a bronze medalist in rowing, was born in Britain to a Moroccan family.
Sbihi, by the way, prefers ''Moe'' to ''Mo.''
There is as much truth to these immigrant success stories as there is to the endless tales of immigrant -- and particularly Muslim immigrant -- alienation in Britain and Europe. Balance is hard to maintain when herd pessimism is a reflex mode and fear a useful political tool.
The euphoria won't last, of course. Taf Pilgrim, strolling with his pregnant wife, said, ''Hopefully the good feelings will endure a bit.'' If the slogan of these Olympics -- ''inspire a generation'' -- is to mean anything, they will have to. But I wonder.
I can already see the stories on the white elephant of a stadium, the cost of it all, the terrible Olympics hangover, the suffering shopkeepers of central London denied regular summer tourism, the cynical politicians posturing to claim credit -- a great autumnal binge of renewed British despondency.
Until then, enjoy this. As the Olympics mood whiplash demonstrates, there are many reasons for optimism. In truth the lesson of Britain's bout of bipolarity is that we are lonely. That is the problem with modernity. When we come together, rediscover community, the feeling is as good as an adrenalin rush.
And, after the binge on the couch, you can always get up and head for the gym.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TERRORISM (50%)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



334 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WAY OF THE WORLD; Pg. 

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: The Coming Oil Boom

BYLINE: By CHRYSTIA FREELAND | REUTERS

 BODY:
NEW YORK -- Forget America's fiscal cliff, Europe's currency troubles or the emerging-markets slowdown. The most important story in the global economy today may well be some good news that isn't yet making as many headlines -- the coming surge in oil production around the world.Until very recently, our collective assumption was that oil was running out. That was partly a matter of what seemed like geological common sense. It took millions of years for the earth to crush plankton into fossil fuels; it is logical to think that it would take millions of years to create more. The rise of the emerging markets, with their energy-hungry billions, was a further reason it seemed obvious we would have less oil and gas in 2020 than we do today.
Obvious -- but wrong. Thanks in part to technologies like horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracking, we are entering a new age of abundant oil. As the energy expert Leonardo Maugeri contends in a recent report published by the Belfer Center at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, ''contrary to what most people believe, oil supply capacity is growing worldwide at such an unprecedented level that it might outpace consumption.'' 
Mr. Maugeri, a research fellow at the Belfer Center and a former oil industry executive, bases that assertion on a field-by-field analysis of most of the major oil exploration and development projects in the world. He concludes that ''by 2020, the world's oil production capacity could be more than 110 million barrels per day, an increase of almost 20 percent.'' Four countries will lead the coming oil boom: Iraq, the United States, Canada and Brazil.
Much of the ''new'' oil is coming on-stream thanks to a technology revolution that has put hard-to-extract deposits within reach: Canada's oil sands, the United States' shale oil, Brazil's presalt oil.
''The extraction technologies are not new,'' Mr. Maugeri explains in the report, ''but the combination of technologies used to exploit shale and tight oils has evolved. The technology can also be used to reopen and recover more oil from conventional, established oilfields.''
Mr. Maugeri thinks the tipping point will be 2015. Until then, the oil market will be ''highly volatile'' and ''prone to extreme movements in opposite directions.'' But after 2015, Mr. Maugeri predicts a ''glut of oil,'' which could lead to a fall, or even a ''collapse,'' in prices.
At a time when the global meme is of America's inevitable economic decline, the surge in oil supply capacity is an important contrarian indicator. Mr. Maugeri calculates that the United States ''could conceivably produce up to 65 percent of its oil consumption needs domestically.'' That national energy boom is already providing a powerful economic stimulus in some parts of the country -- just look at North Dakota. Crucially, at a time when one of the biggest social and political problems in the United States is the disappearance of well-paid blue-collar work, particularly for men, oil patch jobs fill that void.
What Mr. Maugeri dubs the next oil revolution also has tremendous geopolitical implications. One way to understand the battlegrounds of our young century is through the pipelines that flow beneath them. The coming surge in oil production, particularly from North America, will transform that geopolitical equation.
Equally significant is the impact of oil on the most important human problem of our times: protecting the environment. The sources of oil that will fuel the coming boom are harder to reach than the supplies of the 20th century, and the technologies required to extract them are more invasive. That will be one fault line in what is sure to be the escalating battle between environmentalists and the oil industry.
The implications for the climate change debate are even more fraught. Until now, the arithmetic of oil supply and the agenda of environmentalists conveniently dovetailed. Since we were running out of oil anyway, environmentally motivated efforts to limit fossil fuel consumption and increase our use of renewable energy boasted the additional virtue of being inevitable. In an age of abundant oil, those economically utilitarian arguments lose their power.
For environmentalists, and for the liberal political parties with which they are usually aligned, that poses a serious challenge. The temptation will be to oppose new oil production projects indiscriminately. That instinct could be politically dangerous. Political progress in combating climate change has been slow, but the battle for hearts and minds, especially of the younger generation, is being won. That political capital can be lost in an instant if the environmental movement allows itself to be equated with opposition to one of the lone sources of growth -- and of good blue-collar jobs -- at a time of global economic stagnation.
A final conclusion to draw from the next oil revolution is a little more existential. This is yet another reminder that what both common sense and expert consensus assure us to be true very often isn't. It was obvious that efficient markets worked and financial deregulation would stimulate economic growth, until the financial crisis and the subsequent international economic recession. It was equally apparent that we were running out of oil -- until we weren't.
Chrystia Freeland is global editor at large at Reuters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MINING OUTPUT (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (77%); OIL EXPLORATION (77%); OIL SANDS (77%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (76%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (73%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (92%); BRAZIL (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



335 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PROPERTIES; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Broad Change Comes to Myanmar, and Developers Follow

BYLINE: By MIKE IVES

 BODY:
YANGON, MYANMAR -- Soe Thiha Hlaing, the director of sales and marketing for Serge Pun & Associates (Myanmar), says the company's planned 160-acre rental apartment and condominium complex on the rural outskirts of Yangon will emulate high-end housing developments in Singapore and other international cities.No matter that the apartment and condominium market here in the dilapidated capital has been stagnant for 15 years, by the company's reckoning, and that foreigners in Myanmar are not permitted to buy homes or land.
''We're turning a chapter in the market, and I say this quite bullishly,'' Mr. Hlaing said.
The company is selling units to Myanmar citizens, and, Mr. Hlaing added, it is paying close attention to rumors that the government is considering opening the condominium market to foreigners this year. ''We're very conscious of our popularity with foreign buyers,'' he said. 
In the past two years the government has enacted sweeping changes, including ending the house arrest of the democracy activist Daw Aung San Suu Kyi and allowing the elections that put her into Parliament. In recent weeks the United States and the European Union have eased longstanding economic sanctions that had prohibited American and European companies from doing business in Myanmar.
International businesspeople seeking investment opportunities are flocking to Myanmar ''in droves,'' said James Finch, a partner at the law firm DFDL, which has an office in Yangon as well as in other Southeast Asian capitals. ''I expect there to be a push to develop much property in Myanmar, fueled by funds from outside.''
Dozens of foreign companies are opening offices here and will need housing for their expatriate employees, but there is less commercial and residential property available in Myanmar than there was in Vietnam, Cambodia and Thailand when they were at comparable stages of development, Mr. Finch said in an e-mail.
Yangon, with a population estimated at 4.3 million in 2009, is the country's main commercial hub. But according to a 2011 report by the real estate group Colliers International, the city's total office space of about 645,800 square feet, or 60,000 square meters, is about half the space contained in the largest office tower in Bangkok, the Empire Tower.
Demand for hotel space in Yangon also has surged over the past two years: An upper-end room that in 2010 cost less than 43,750 Myanmar kyats, or $50, a night now costs more than three times as much, said Tony Picon, associate director at the Colliers office in Thailand.
Demand for Yangon's six serviced apartments also is ''extremely high,'' Colliers reported last year, and Mr. Picon said in July that the starting monthly rate for a serviced studio apartment, at 2.19 million kyats, or about $2,500, is nearly double what it was just one year ago.
Development of Myanmar's real estate market will follow a pattern, said Damien Duhamel, a managing partner at Solidiance, a consulting firm based in Singapore that advises Fortune 500 companies on emerging Asian markets and that recently opened an office in Yangon.
First, developers from Singapore, South Korea and Hong Kong will capitalize on Yangon's economic boom by building new hotels and offices. An apartment and condominium market oriented around expatriates will appear 5 to 10 years later, Mr. Duhamel said, adding that he observed a similar trend in Vietnam 20 years ago.
But Mr. Picon of Colliers said some developers were already renovating properties and building new ones to meet expatriate tastes, which typically involve small units and amenities like gyms, swimming pools and backup generators. According to the Colliers report, a loosening of property laws expected this year may allow some form of foreign ownership of condominiums, along the lines of similar laws in Thailand and Cambodia.
Mr. Picon added, however, that even if the law passed this year and new accommodation was made available in coming months, the supply of hotel rooms and serviced housing for expatriates would lag behind demand for the foreseeable future.
Some expatriates may think Yangon ''will be like Bangkok and that getting a room is easy,'' he said. ''I have seen a couple of people's eyes glaze over when the reality hits during their visit to Yangon.''
In the longer term, analysts and developers say, a crucial question is where in Yangon to build new apartments and condominiums. The city, which has frequent electrical failures, is surrounded by rivers and lakes and has a lot of undeveloped land on its periphery, especially across the Bago and Yangon Rivers.
Researchers from Harvard University concluded in a study in March that soaring property prices in Yangon's city center could lead developers to build on the city's periphery. Land in prime areas already costs about $50,000 per square meter, surpassing prices in downtown Bangkok, according to Colliers.
Representatives of two Myanmar developers, Yadanar Myaing and Shine Trading, said during interviews that developers were reluctant to build on the outskirts because of a lack of infrastructure, like a network of bridges.
Serge Pun & Associates is not fazed. Through its Myanmar subsidiary, Thanlyin Estate Development, it is building its newest housing development on former farmland about 10 kilometers, or 6.2 miles, from downtown. The project, called Star City, can be reached from downtown by car in about 30 minutes, but the trip involves crossing two bridges and bumpy roads, so the company is planning a ferry service to offer a more convenient commute.
Yoma Strategic Holdings, based in Singapore, financed 70 percent of the cost of the land development rights for the project, and the other 30 percent came from a publicly owned affiliate of Serge Pun & Associates called First Myanmar Investment.
According to Mr. Hlaing, the government typically offers land to developers for housing projects but does not act as a developer itself.
Star City's 20 apartment blocks, which will contain a total of about 4,000 one- to four-bedroom units, are scheduled to open in December, though the riverfront property is still dotted with the concrete skeletons of buildings. Condominiums, a shopping center and a golf course are planned, and Mr. Hlaing said the complex would be finished by 2020.
Nearly all of the approximately 500 units put on the market so far, at 70 million kyats to 215 million kyats per unit, have sold, Mr. Hlaing said.
On a recent afternoon at Star City's air-conditioned showroom, Mr. Hlaing said the Myanmar authorities were taking a ''very keen interest'' in the development and saw it as a benchmark for future housing projects.
But he also said, echoing the concerns of developers and analysts, that an expected influx of foreign funds into the city's growing property market could create a bubble.
Foreign capital may flow freely into Myanmar as economic sanctions lift, but it also could easily disappear, Mr. Hlaing said, adding, ''The local market is wary of that.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (91%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) MYANMAR (97%); SINGAPORE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (92%); CAMBODIA (79%); VIET NAM (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



336 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Hope for Stimulus Lingers On a Mixed Trading Day

BYLINE: By REUTERS; CHART:

 BODY:
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index extended its rally to a fifth day on Thursday, again making a small gain as lingering expectations for economic stimulus from central banks lent support to a market lacking catalysts.Although the S.& P. 500 has posted three-month highs every day this week, it has climbed only 0.6 percent over the last three sessions, an indication that investors were reluctant to make aggressive bets despite the better-than-expected jobless claims and trade data that government agencies reported Thursday.
The Nasdaq composite index beat the other two major stock indexes, led by Cisco Systems after Goldman Sachs recommended the stock and Piper Jaffray upgraded its rating. Cisco rose 3.2 percent to $17.70 and was the Dow's biggest percentage gainer. 
Materials stocks also advanced after James River Coal said the market for power-generating coal was showing signs of a recovery after big industrywide cuts in production. The stock surged 13 percent to $2.52 while Arch Coal rose 7.1 percent to $7.42. An S.& P. materials index rose 0.5 percent.
The three major stock indexes seesawed throughout the morning, with the S.& P. 500 mostly hovering above 1,400 in light trading as investors bet central banks would soon act to support a global recovery that has shown signs of stalling.
''It's almost eerie how flat the market has been,'' said Mark D. Luschini, chief investment strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia. ''But while there's a risk of our becoming overbought, I don't see why we'd see a decline of any magnitude until we hear what central banks will do.''
The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 10.45 points, or 0.08 percent, to 13,165.19. The S.& P. 500 inched up 0.58 of a point, or 0.04 percent, to 1,402.80. The Nasdaq composite index gained 7.39 points, or 0.25 percent, to close at 3,018.64.
Markets held on despite weak Chinese economic data. Annual growth in factory output slowed to its lowest in more than three years in July, while annual consumer price inflation hit a 30-month low.
''This news is disappointing, but it only emboldens investors that we'll be rescued by central banks somewhere,'' Mr. Luschini said.
The number of Americans filing new claims for jobless benefits fell last week while the United States trade deficit in June was the smallest in 18 months, hopeful signs.
The beauty products maker Elizabeth Arden forecast 2013 profit above estimates on stronger sales and its shares rose 13 percent to $44.02.
Of the 445 companies in the S.& P. 500 that had reported second-quarter earnings through Thursday morning, 68 percent have exceeded analysts' expectations, in line with the average over the last four quarters.
Shares of Robbins & Myers, a provider of industrial fluids and fluid management systems, rose 27.4 percent to $59.63 after National Oilwell Varco said it would buy the company for $2.54 billion in cash. Varco shares added 0.8 percent to $76.98.
E*Trade Financial gained 6.9 percent to $8.57 after replacing its chief, Steven Freiberg. with its chairman, Frank J. Petrilli, on an interim basis.
Interest rates were higher. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 17/32, to 99 12/3, and the yield rose to 1.70 percent from 1.65 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (70%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (68%); TOILETRIES MFG (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (62%)

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (56%); JAMES RIVER COAL CO (56%); ARCH COAL INC (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%); PJC (NYSE) (56%); JRCC (NASDAQ) (56%); ACI (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS213113 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR COAL MINING (56%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (56%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (56%); SIC1241 COAL MINING SERVICES (56%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (56%); SIC1221 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



337 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: Delay in Insurance Refund May Lie With Employers

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
It was the great health insurance giveback: $1.1 billion in premiums returned to policyholders under the Affordable Care Act. But while many people who buy their own insurance found a check in the mail last week, millions insured through employers are still wondering what is happening with the money.Workers were notified in form letters from insurers this month that a ''rebate'' had been sent to their employer, who ''must follow certain rules in distributing the rebate to you.'' But even when employees paid a significant share of the premium, many employers are still deciding how, when or even whether to share the cash.
Calls are now pouring into human resources departments around the country, said Mendy Stein, a health benefits specialist with Mercer, a nationwide consulting firm.
''We're seeing a very high increase in the number of calls that H.R. call centers are handling from employees saying, 'Where's my money?' '' he said. 
The law gives employers up to three months and considerable discretion to decide how to spend the employees' money, so long as it is eventually used to benefit insurance plan participants. And while some employers are returning the money directly in paychecks, or planning ''premium holidays'' that increase take-home pay, others are weighing different options, benefits consultants said, like reducing next year's premium, or spending the refund on so-called wellness programs that reward workers who lose weight or quit smoking.
''What they're doing right now is trying to figure out what to do with the money,'' said J. D. Piro, a health benefits specialist with Aon Hewitt, which handles human resources administration for companies around the country, including some that received hefty six-figure checks in late July. ''It came as a surprise to many employers.''
In New York State, $76.8 million was returned to large employers -- more money than in any other state. Most of it -- $49,652,329 -- was paid out by Oxford, part of UnitedHealthcare, which sent out letters about the refund to more than 439,000 employees working for about 2,300 companies in the state, all large group policyholders with more than 50 employees.
Maria Gordon-Shydlo, a spokeswoman for UnitedHealthcare, said the money averaged out to $113 per covered employee. Six other insurers, including Cigna, Aetna, Nippon Life Benefits and the United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York, also made refunds to large employers in the state.
The federal health care law required the refunds because the insurers had spent more than 15 percent of the premiums they collected last year on overhead like salaries and advertising, and less than 85 percent on health care. Nationwide, rebates to large employers reached $37.8 million in the District of Columbia, $30.5 million in Pennsylvania, $25.6 million in Florida and $18.1 million in Texas, but were under $12 million in many other states, including California, New Jersey and Connecticut.
''It's confusing, because it almost seems like it's all in the employers' hands and it's up to you, the person who got the letter, to ask your employer about how the money is going to come through,'' said Carina Kleter, 32, a project coordinator at Parsons the New School for Design, who finally opened her letter from Oxford this week during what she called ''a cleaning rampage.''
''I haven't gotten any letters from the H.R. department about how it's going to work,'' she said.
Besides suggesting a call to the employer, the letter gives a number for the United States Department of Labor's Employee Benefits Security Administration. About 10,000 calls have come in so far, Michael Trupo, a department spokesman, said Wednesday.
''We have worked with employers to help ensure they know how to handle the rebates in accordance with the law,'' he said in an e-mail, adding that employees who suspect they are not benefiting from a rebate provided to their company can contact the agency at 1-866-444-3272. The amount of the rebate that employers must return to employees, or spend for their benefit, is generally limited to the amount that the workers contribute to their premiums. So if a company pays 70 percent of its workers' premiums, it can keep 70 percent of the rebate. But one city employer, the Urban Justice Center, distributed its $17,000 check from Oxford to employees, even though the nonprofit agency pays the whole premium for their health coverage. Douglas Lasdon, executive director of the agency, which provides legal services to the homeless and other poor New Yorkers, estimated that 65 employees would get about $260 each.
''Who wouldn't like that?'' Mr. Lasdon said. ''By giving the money to employees immediately, we are helping to stimulate the economy. We hope they buy shoes.''
One agency worker, Andriana Ongoiba, said it would go for necessities. ''It's like a free week and a half of day care!'' she said.
But few companies are willing to give up their share of a refund, according to Michael Cornetto, an insurance specialist with Corporate Consulting Services. ''Our guidance to our clients is to distribute it fairly,'' Mr. Cornetto said. ''The first question is, whose money is it? Who paid for the premium in the first place?''
Employees are understandably confused, he added. Even if their insurance is administered by one of the carriers on the refund list, and the employees pay toward the cost of coverage, they are not entitled to a refund if their company is self-insured. If a business has fewer than 50 employees, the insurer is allowed to spend up to 20 percent of premiums on overhead. And with hundreds of different ''rebate pools'' linked to different insurance products, the same insurer may owe money to one company, but not to its neighbor.
Still, since employees often pay 30 percent or more of the premium through payroll deductions, their portion of a refund can be significant, noted Shawn J. Nowicki, director of health policy for the Northeast Business Group on Health, a coalition seeking to reduce health care costs.
Besides paying the money back directly, he said, two other options are allowed: using the refund to reduce next year's premium, or spending it to ''enhance benefits.'' That could include wellness programs aimed at keeping employees healthier and more productive, he said.
''It's really on an employer-by-employer basis,'' Mr. Nowicki added. ''The construction company is going to be very different from the 300-person financial services company.''
But spending the employees' share to reward ex-smokers or dieters in a wellness program is asking for trouble, even if it passes legal muster, cautioned Helen Darling, chief executive of the National Business Group on Health, a nonprofit association of 342 large employers.
''The feeling might be that the company got money that they so-called 'pocketed' and then, to earn it back, you have to do what the employer says,'' she explained. ''You could quickly turn a positive into a negative.''
Her advice: ''Give it back.''
At Sage Realty, a building management company in Manhattan with about 90 employees, the comptroller, Lou Pisano, said payroll software would make it easy to return the workers' 10 percent share of a $15,000 rebate check in a couple of weeks.
''The insurance companies were basically pocketing that money in the past,'' he said, rejecting the idea of applying it to next year's premium, because ''that's kind of like a moving target.''
''Most people,'' he added, ''are happy just getting a little more money in their check.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Douglas Lasdon, executive director of the Urban Justice Center, divided a $17,000 check from Oxford among his employees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); INSURANCE (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (77%); ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES (74%); SMOKING (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (72%); CALL CENTERS (69%); DIETING (64%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (53%); SMOKING CESSATION (50%)

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (90%); UNITED STATES LIFE INSURANCE CO IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK (61%); CIGNA CORP (58%)

TICKER: CI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (90%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (90%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (61%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



338 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: For Determined Japanese Team, Silver Must Be Good Enough

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON; Hiroko Tabuchi contributed reporting from Tokyo.

 BODY:
LONDON -- From the outset, Nadeshiko Japan was playing for more than an Olympic medal. Since it stunned the Americans to win last year's World Cup, the women's national soccer team came to symbolize the country's determination to rebuild northern Japan after a devastating tsunami hit on March 11, 2011.That's a lot to put on a bunch of athletes who were nearly unknown outside the tiny circle of fans who attended their home matches. But they have handled the instant stardom, which in Japan can be suffocating, with aplomb and grace. There have been no scandals, accusations or locker room intrigue, just a lot of hard work and teamwork.
They even smiled at the snubs, like when they sat in economy class on the flight to Europe while their lower-ranked male counterparts flew in business class on the same plane. 
On Thursday, Nadeshiko Japan fell one goal short of its objective to become the first women's team to win World Cup and Olympic titles back to back. The Americans -- many of whom call the Japanese players their friends -- were too much as they tried to erase the sting of last year's defeat. As expected, it was a closely fought match, with the Americans using their size and strength to muscle the Japanese, who countered with pinpoint passes, darting drives and pure hustle.
The Japanese stuck to their plan, controlling the ball for 58 percent of the game and nearly matching the Americans' shot total, including several at improbably close range. But the Americans committed 15 fouls (to seven for Japan), many of which slowed Japanese drives in the 2-1 United States victory.
Nadeshiko did not back down, even after Carli Lloyd put the Americans up, 2-0, early in the second half. The Japanese kept charging and their determination finally paid off when Yuki Ogimi knocked home a goal from close range in the 63rd minute. A repeat of last year's remarkable comeback in the World Cup final seemed within reach. And then it was not.
''I'm shocked,'' said Takashi Miura, 28, who stayed up all night to watch the game at a Tokyo sports bar. ''I was counting on the women's team this time around. That's the hard part about being World Cup champions. Everybody studies you and guns to beat you.''
Going home with silver in their suitcases -- the first Olympic medals for a Japanese women's soccer team -- is victory enough. True, all of Japan was banking on a gold medal, especially after the Japanese men's team lost its semifinal match to Mexico, and after the country's judo and gymnastics teams failed to bring home their expected loot.
Throughout, Nadeshiko's players remained focused on winning to buoy Japan again, and to prove to themselves and their naysayers that they were not one-time wonders. In a country where women's sports live on life support and a Title IX equivalent is a pipe dream, winning anew on an international stage could have forced Japan to take them seriously, perhaps motivating more girls to compete.
Women's sports in the United States, of course, face plenty of challenges as well. Two professional soccer leagues have collapsed, and women's soccer is forever trying to elbow its way onto television.
But even after their defeat last year, the Americans have done well. Hope Solo became a household name after appearing on ''Dancing With the Stars.'' She and teammates Alex Morgan and Abby Wambach signed endorsement deals. The American team will split $1.5 million in prize money. A 10-game victory tour awaits the gold medalists when they return home. Some may become television commentators and college coaches.
The Japanese women face a different world still dominated by old boy networks and octogenarians. They have done more in a year than Japan's men's soccer team has accomplished in 20, yet they will play in a semipro league in which most teams do not charge admission. For a while, they will be invited to appear on television shows and receive bags containing sweets and envelopes filled with thank-you money.
After the final whistle blew, the Japanese fell on the turf in disbelief. Players hugged, others wiped away tears and a few went to the Americans to congratulate them. Then they picked themselves up and walked to the stands, lined up and bowed to their fans in unison. Queen's anthem, ''We Are the Champions,'' blared on the stadium speakers.
''I'm disappointed, but I think we made strides forward this Olympics,'' Ogimi said. ''We have to build on this experience to play harder and aim higher the next time.''
2012 LONDON

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Yuki Ogimi scored the only goal in the final for the Japanese women, who felt the weight of expectations at home. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHIC: Hand to Hand: Lauryn Williams, on the U.S. 4x100 relay team's focus on the baton exchange: ''I've been practicing in my sleep. I've been throwing back my hand all day long.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WOMEN (89%); SPORTS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); MEN (73%); GYMNASTICS (73%); MARTIAL ARTS (73%); TSUNAMIS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (78%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



339 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; TEXAS MONTHLY; Pg. 15B

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: GTT

BYLINE: By MICHAEL HOINSKI. 
mhoinski@texasmonthly.com

 BODY:
Our quirky, discerning picks for the most interesting things to do around the state this week.ARCHER CITY
Book It
Larry McMurtry is a man of many words. Not only has he written some of the finest literature of our time, but he has also collected some of the finest literature of all time, amassing hundreds of thousands of volumes at Booked Up, his store in Archer City, the town depicted in ''The Last Picture Show.'' But while Mr. McMurtry continues to write books -- including ''Books: A Memoir'' (2008) -- it looks as if his collecting days are ending. Fans and collectors can join Mr. McMurtry this weekend for the Last Book Sale, the shelf-lot auction of his vast trove. 
Perhaps this sale is a result of a new direction in life prompted by Mr. McMurtry's marriage last year to Faye Kesey, the widow of the novelist Ken Kesey. Or maybe it has to do with Mr. McMurtry's coming to grips with e-books, the medium he was criticized for questioning in a review of the book ''One Click: Jeff Bezos and the Rise of Amazon.com'' in Harper's Magazine. Whether you are a bibliophile or not, these will be days to celebrate the written word, with beer, barbecue and a concert by the politically charged singer-songwriter James McMurtry, Mr. McMurtry's son.
Booked Up, Aug. 10-11, 10 a.m., addisonsauction.com
AUSTIN
Racy
Style and speed will collide at this year's nine-day Austin Fashion Week. Formula One racing, set to begin Nov. 16 on a new track outside Austin, will get some early exposure in this extravaganza of retail events at local malls and runway shows by emerging designers at other locations around town. There will be sleek cars on display at the kickoff event featuring Anita Perry, the state's first lady, who will talk about the economic impact of Formula One. Also, two Austin designers will champion the sport through their fashions. Ross Bennett, who was on the reality TV show ''Fashion Star,'' will create outfits for the race's ''promo girls,'' and Linda Asaf will present a collection of attire suited for the Formula One scene.
''We tend to equate Formula One with Nascar, but they're not even close to similar,'' said Matt Swinney, a Fashion Week organizer. ''I equate Formula One to the Kentucky Derby. It's a different kind of style: young, edgy, incredibly high-end luxury.'' Visitors can see what it takes to look like a million bucks without compromising the casual-cool aesthetic that Austin is known for.
Various locations, Aug. 10-18, various times, fashionweek austin.com
BURTON
On the Range
Susan S. Kiel, the president of the Burton Heritage Society, admires the way Texas Rangers approach their jobs. Back in the glory days of the Rangers, ''when people were doing something wrong,'' Ms. Kiel said, ''the Rangers went out and no matter the means, they took care of business.''
Visitors can get a sense of this no-holds-barred ethos at the second annual Texas Ranger Day and A Big Star Texas Night, a tribute to Rangers past and present organized by the heritage society. The Brazos Banditos and the Old West Rangers, sanctioned Texas Rangers re-enactor groups, will host shootouts and portray camp life. The day of immersion will also allow some lucky visitors to have fake warrants pulled on their friends and have those friends brought to mock trial.
The inspiration for this living-history event comes from Lean-der McNelly, a Ranger who lived outside Burton in the mid-1800s and was in charge of the Washington County Volunteers, who aggressively patrolled the lawless borderlands and forged the Ranger identity.
''Texas Rangers are larger than life,'' Ms. Kiel said. ''There's something about that spirit that people just like.''
Downtown, Aug. 11, 3:30 p.m., burtontexas.org
HOUSTON
Life of the City
It's easy to take the architecture we encounter every day for granted and overlook the complex mix of math, science and creativity that goes into the planning of downtown skylines. But as more Texans relocate to urban centers, it's important to consider the evolution of these settings and the ways their development will affect future generations.
The ArCH Film Festival, sponsored by the Architecture Center Houston, will emphasize smart growth and identify threats posed by the other kind, using four movies to illustrate: ''The Pruitt-Igoe Myth,'' ''My Playground,'' ''Radiant City'' and ''Urbanized.'' Moviegoers will leave the theater better able to appreciate the cityscape around them.
Architecture Center Houston, Aug. 16-18, 7 p.m., aiahouston.org
SAN ANTONIO
He's Back
One of the shows for the release of ''I'm Gone,'' the first album in eight years from the ripsnorting blues band Omar & the Howlers, will benefit from what its frontman, Omar Kent Dykes, was doing during the hiatus: collaborating on two albums with Jimmie Vaughan.
Sam's Burger Joint, Aug. 10, 8 p.m., omarandthehowlers.com
HOUSTON
Start in Art
Up-and-coming artists are so consumed with making work that they often don't have the time or know-how to get it noticed, so many of them will flock to the Big Show, a juried exhibition open to any artist living within 100 miles of Houston.
Lawndale Art Center, Aug. 10-11, various times, lawndale artcenter.org

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rory Beca models at Austin Fashion Week. This year's event includes a collection inspired by Formula One. (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF AUSTIN FASHION WEEK)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); FASHION SHOWS (88%); FASHION DESIGN (86%); FORMULA ONE RACING (86%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); WRITERS (78%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (77%); SONG WRITING (77%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (73%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); FASHION & APPAREL (68%); NASCAR RACING (63%)

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (55%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%)

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



340 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Going Private, Space Industry Eyes State's Open Spaces

BYLINE: By SHEFALI LUTHRA. 
sluthra@texastribune.org

 BODY:
When XCOR Aerospace, a private California rocket-building company, was looking for a wide-open place to test rocket engines and space planes, it found an ideal site in Midland.''There's nothing in the desert for hundreds of miles,'' said Mike Massee, a spokesman for the company. XCOR plans to set up facilities in an existing Midland hangar next year and could eventually invest $12 million a year in payroll there, Mr. Massee said. ''That's something that's very desirable.''
As home to the NASA Johnson Space Center, Texas has been central to the field of space exploration for decades. But XCOR's announcement is only the latest indication of many that the state could be on its way to becoming a hub for a new space economy -- one based in the private sector. Texas' location and business-friendly policies make it appealing, industry experts say, and if the private space industry takes root, it could inject millions of dollars into the state economy. 
SpaceX, another California-based company, which recently sent an unmanned capsule to and from the International Space Station, is evaluating a location near Brownsville for a launchpad and expanding a rocket-testing facility in McGregor. Blue Origin, a Washington-based company headed by Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon.com, has a launchpad in West Texas.
Though private space companies considered investing in Texas 20 years ago, the technology for them to succeed was not yet in place, said Alex Ignatiev, a University of Houston professor whose research has received NASA financing and who has advised space companies. Now, he said, Texas is eager to attract private space companies, and the technological and financial resources are there. (The University of Houston is a corporate sponsor of The Texas Tribune.)
In addition to a new ''confluence of entrepreneurs and technology,'' he added, ''the nation's need for access to space'' is acute, now that the space shuttle program has ended.
Private space companies are particularly appealing to Texas in the wake of that program and as NASA faces budget cuts. Although the shuttles were launched from Florida, the program's mission control was at the Johnson Space Center in Houston.
Gov. Rick Perry has expressed interest in promoting the private space industry in Texas and has met with Elon Musk, the chief executive of SpaceX, many times.
Though the state encourages space firms to come to Texas, it has not, so far, lured them with financial incentives, said Lucy Nashed, a spokeswoman for Mr. Perry. The governor's office is talking with XCOR about whether the Midland project would be eligible for state money, but the company must prove it would create jobs, she said.
Initiatives like the state's Enterprise Zone Program, which supports companies that bolster struggling economies, could be useful to space firms because they often settle in economically challenged rural areas, Ms. Nashed said.
Special incentives aside, Texas is attractive to space companies because of its low business taxes, Mr. Massee said. The state's location also helps. Rockets can be launched faster when they are closer to the equator, said Bob Lancaster, president of the Texas Space Alliance, an advocacy group. SpaceX is considering a site in Cameron County, the state's southernmost county.
But environmentalists are concerned about the impact of potential space facilities.
The advocacy group Environment Texas is petitioning for SpaceX to abandon its Brownsville plans. The proposed gulf coast site, which comprises about 50 acres, is surrounded on three sides by Boca Chica State Park, home to rare species like the ocelot and the leatherback sea turtle, according to a letter that the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department sent to the Federal Aviation Administration in May in response to questions about the potential environmental impact of the plan.
Gilberto Salinas, the executive vice president of the Brownsville Economic Development Council, countered that SpaceX had a history of complying with environmental regulations and said he believed the company would protect species in the park.
The launchpad, Mr. Salinas said, would use five to eight acres, leaving a ''buffer zone'' around it.
The facilities would cost SpaceX about $80 million to build, Mr. Salinas said, though SpaceX did not confirm that figure. He estimates that developing the site would inject $50 million in annual salaries into Brownsville's economy and add $20 million to $30 million per year in related costs.
''It would just totally change the way things are done down here,'' he said.
NASA, meanwhile, is itself contributing to the growth of the private space industry. As Congressional budget cutters have taken aim at the agency, granting it $17.77 billion in federal money for fiscal year 2012, a decrease of about 4 percent, the agency is having to ''learn to be efficient with less,'' said Josh Byerly, a spokesman for the Johnson Center. (He added that NASA was not ''limping along'' under the cuts.) With the end of the space shuttle program, experts say commercial companies could provide most low-orbit space travel, potentially at lower cost to NASA.
According to the agency, Blue Origin, as of June 30, had received about $17.8 million from NASA to transport space crews into lower orbit. SpaceX had received about $70 million for crew transport and about $751.2 million to develop and restock low-orbit cargo stations. And on Aug. 3, the agency awarded SpaceX $440 million to refine its existing spacecraft to transport NASA astronauts.
Because private companies are focused on profit, they are likely to develop cheaper models for low-orbit travel, Mr. Lancaster said, like reusable rockets.
Texas is not alone in attracting space companies. Experts say competitors include Alabama, California, New Mexico and Virginia.
Florida, home to the NASA Kennedy Space Center and one of Texas' top competitors, created a state agency, Space Florida, in 2006 to promote space-related business.
Although Texas does not have a space department, staff members from the Office of Economic Development and Tourism work with companies and write letters on their behalf, Ms. Nashed said.
''This is an industry that has a lot of potential to grow in Texas,'' she said. ''The sky's the limit.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An Interior Department sign at the edge of Boca Chica State Park's wildlife refuge. Left, a park map shows the protected area's privately owned parcels
 one could become a SpaceX launchpad site. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REYNALDO LEAL FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE INDUSTRY (92%); SPACECRAFT (91%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); SPACE PROPULSION (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); SPACE SHUTTLE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); BUDGETS (76%); GOVERNORS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); SPACE STATIONS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); SPONSORSHIP (62%); EXECUTIVES (62%); JOB CREATION (60%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (57%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (54%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (54%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (54%); JEFFREY P BEZOS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (91%) TEXAS, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



341 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (13, 49) TANGLEWOOD 75TH ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION The ''PBS Arts Summer Festival'' pays tribute to this Massachusetts performing arts center with a concert featuring the Boston Symphony Orchestra, the Boston Pops Orchestra and the Tanglewood Music Center Orchestra, directed by Keith Lockhart, Andris Nelsons, John Williams and David Zinman. The program, taped on July 14 and presented by ''Great Performances,'' includes Copland's ''Fanfare for the Common Man''; three dance episodes from Bernstein's ''On the Town''; selections from the American Songbook, sung by James Taylor; Emanuel Ax in two movements from Haydn's Piano Concerto in D; Yo-Yo Ma, above, in Tchaikovsky's Andante Cantabile for cello and strings; Anne-Sophie Mutter as soloist in Sarasate's ''Carmen Fantasy'' for violin and orchestra; Ravel's ''La Valse''; and the pianist Peter Serkin performing Beethoven's Choral Fantasy -- a favorite of his father, the pianist Rudolf Serkin -- featuring the Tanglewood Festival Chorus.6:05 A.M. (MoreMax) GREENBERG (2010) Ben Stiller plays Roger Greenberg, a 40-year-old former musician who, after a mental breakdown, house-sits in the large Los Angeles home of his vacationing brother in this film from Noah Baumbach. 
Greta Gerwig portrays Florence Marr, the brother's 25-year-old assistant and Roger's on-again, off-again love interest in his quest to recapture his youth. ''Mr. Stiller, suppressing his well-honed sketch comedian's urge to wink at the audience, turns Roger into a walking challenge to the Hollywood axiom that a movie's protagonist must be likable,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times. Only at the end does Mr. Baumbach reveal that the film has been ''a romantic comedy all along,'' he added. ''And suddenly a movie about a man who is defiantly difficult to like becomes very hard not to love.''
12:30 P.M. (NBC) 2012 LONDON OLYMPICS Medals are awarded in the synchronized swimming team final and, at 1:30, men's marathon swimming. Qualifying rounds in rhythmic gymnastics take place at 1:45. Medals are distributed in the 55-kilogram (121-pound) and 74-kilogram (163-pound) classes in freestyle wrestling at 2:45. The gold medal winner in women's field hockey will be determined at 6 on NBC Sports. And NBC prime-time coverage, at 8, includes finals in track-and-field relays and BMX cycling; semifinals in men's volleyball; and qualifying in men's platform diving.
1 P.M. (E!) UNFAITHFUL (2002) Diane Lane, in an Oscar-nominated role, plays Connie Sumner, a housewife in Westchester County, N.Y., who surrenders to an erotic whim and embarks on an affair with a French rare-book dealer in Manhattan (Olivier Martinez, right, with Ms. Lane) that spins out of control. Richard Gere is Connie's devoted husband. ''The saddest and most unsettling element of 'Unfaithful' is its portrayal of an affluent, articulate couple who for all their individual sensitivity can barely bring themselves to communicate on a less than superficial level,'' Stephen Holden wrote in The Times about this drama from Adrian Lyne, adapted from Claude Chabrol's ''Femme Infidle.''
8 P.M. (Flix) SABRINA (1995) Julia Ormond will always have Paris in this remake, directed by Sydney Pollack, of the 1954 romantic confection about a chauffeur's daughter who falls for the sons of the manor (Harrison Ford and Greg Kinnear). ''Mr. Pollack's new film runs straight up against a snobbish and dated story, Billy Wilder's status as a national treasure and Audrey Hepburn's heart-stopping way of purring the word 'Paris' with music in her voice,'' Janet Maslin wrote in The Times. Still, this '' 'Sabrina' succeeds as a breezy, lighthearted throwback, made without benefit of the Hepburn magic but with much else in its favor,'' she said. ''Blossoming into radiant color, this film has picture-postcard charms that the black-and-white earlier version could only hint at.'' In ''The Thomas Crown Affair'' (1999), at 10:10, Pierce Brosnan and Rene Russo, stepping in for Steve McQueen and Faye Dunaway, play a billionaire art collector who orchestrates the theft of a Monet and the insurance investigator who tries to prove he did it. ''For an allegedly steamy love story,'' Ms. Maslin wrote, the movie works best ''as proof that sex can be in the head: the film editor's head.''
2 A.M. (Reelz) THE FULL MONTY (1997) Robert Carlyle (left), Mark Addy and Tom Wilkinson play unemployed steelworkers in Sheffield, England, who take it all off for a buck in this comedy directed by Peter Cattaneo, which earned Oscar nominations for best director, best picture and best screenplay and won for best original music. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY HILARY SCOTT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (91%); FESTIVALS (91%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); FILM (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (73%); OLYMPICS (70%); GYMNASTICS (70%); TOURNAMENTS (68%); WATER SPORTS (64%); COMEDY FILMS (64%); RUNNING (64%); SWIMMING (64%); SPORTS (64%); TRACK & FIELD (64%); FIELD HOCKEY (60%); WRESTLING (60%); CYCLING (60%); DIVING (60%); MARATHONS (50%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (50%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%)

PERSON: BEN STILLER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



342 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
The Memo From Africa article on Thursday, about Africa's widely held image as the next frontier for economic growth, misidentified the United States agency for which Francisco J. Sanchez serves as under secretary for international trade. It is the Department of Commerce, not the Treasury Department. The article also misspelled the surname of a foreign affairs analyst at the University of Johannesburg. He is Chris Landsberg, not Lansburg. And it referred incorrectly to the value of a deal signed by G.E. to build power plants in Nigeria over the next decade. The deal has no firm dollar value; it is not the case that it is worth $10 billion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (88%); POWER PLANTS (52%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (52%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); NIGERIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



343 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING | ASIA; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: Afghanistan: U.S. Aid Worker Killed

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Obama administration said Thursday that a United States government aid worker had been killed in an attack by suicide bombers in eastern Kunar Province. In a statement, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton condemned the attack by two men on Wednesday. The statement said that a Foreign Service officer working with the United States Agency for International Development, Ragaei Abdelfattah, was killed, along with three coalition soldiers and an Afghan civilian. A State Department employee was wounded. Also on Thursday, two Afghan soldiers tried to shoot a group of NATO soldiers outside a military base in eastern Laghman Province, officials said. No coalition soldiers were hit, but one of the attackers was killed by NATO troops. The second Afghan soldier was detained, an Afghan military official said. The Taliban claimed responsibility for the Thursday attack, said a Taliban spokesman, Zabiullah Mujahid. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); TALIBAN (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (88%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (88%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (58%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (73%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



344 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED GUEST COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Romney's Side Course Of Culture

BYLINE: By TA-NEHISI COATES. 
Ta-Nehisi Coates, a senior editor at The Atlantic, is a guest columnist. David Brooks and Paul Krugman are off today.

 BODY:
When Mitt Romney asserted last week that ''culture does matter,'' he settled into a pose that was more triumphalist than anthropologist. Romney had begun by asserting that culture explained the difference in G.D.P. between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, but soon he was claiming that culture also made the United States ''the greatest economic power in the history of the earth.'' His attempt to define American culture settled in on vague attributes like ''patriotism,'' ''family orientation,'' ''honor and oath'' and ''freedom,'' a list that seemed cribbed from Ron Swanson's Pyramid of Greatness.Is it worth noting that America, itself, was secured from its aboriginal tribes through centuries of oath-breaking, through a malleable regard for freedom, and through the auctioning of families? 
Probably not. When people invoke culture in the Romney manner, what they are really invoking is a scale by which humanity may be ranked from totally dysfunctional to totally awesome. The idea is that culture is a set of irrefutable best practices, when in fact it is more like a toolbox whose efficacy depends upon the job. If you want to create a nation with a dominant entertainment media, perhaps American culture is the way to go. If you're uninterested in presiding over a nation with 25 percent of the world's prisoners but only 5 percent of its population, perhaps not.
Whenever this particular incarnation of the culture wars erupts, I think back to my earliest experiences with my august employer, The Atlantic. On the scale of ashy to classy, I was more the former than the latter. But my relationship with the magazine often put me in the dining company of men and women who were not unused to nice things. These were the days when I powerfully believed Breyers and Entenmann's to be pioneers in the field of antidepressants. My new companions had other beliefs, a fact evidenced by our divergent waistlines.
They organized dinners featuring several small courses, most of which were only partially eaten. The general dining practice consisted of buttering half a dinner roll, dallying with the salad, nibbling at the fish and taking a spoonful of desert. The only seconds they requested were coffee and wine.
I left the first of these dinners in bemused dudgeon. ''Crazy rich white people,'' I would scoff. ''Who goes to a nice dinner and leaves hungry?'' In fact, they were not hungry at all. I discovered this a few dinners later, when I found myself embroiled in this ritual of half-dining. It was as though some invisible force was slowing my fork, forcing me into pauses, until I found myself nibbling and sampling my way through the meal. And when I rose both caffeinated and buzzed, I was, to my shock, completely satiated.
Like many Americans, I was from a world where ''finish your plate'' was gospel. The older people there held hunger in their recent memory. For generations they had worked with their arms, backs and hands. With scarcity a constant, and manual labor the norm, ''finish your plate'' fit the screws of their lives. I did not worry for food. I sat at my desk staring at a computer screen for much of the day. But still I ate like a stevedore. In the old world, this culture of eating kept my forebears alive. In this new one it was slowly killing me.
It was like trying to drive a nail with a monkey wrench. And it could work in reverse. I could easily see how the same social pressures that urged dietary moderation could drive someone to an eating disorder.
Using the wrong tool for the job is a problem that extends beyond the dining room. The set of practices required for a young man to secure his safety on the streets of his troubled neighborhood are not the same as those required to place him on an honor roll, and these are not the same as the set of practices required to write the great American novel. The way to guide him through this transition is not to insult his native language. It is to teach him a new one.
There are obvious limits to this sort of relativism, and its invocation is not a moral pass for wife-beating, mass murder or slavery. Comprehension and censure are not mutually exclusive. On the contrary, the most effective condemnations proceed from comprehension. What stands out about Romney's culture comments is how much he relies on bromides and banalities. It is almost as if he doesn't know anything about the workings of culture at all.
But here we should be understanding. Romney hails from the party of birthers and creationists. He is the appointed representative of those who would see the strictures against same-sex marriage rendered constitutional. Ignorance is no stranger there. It is part of the culture.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); FAMILY (78%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (68%); BEST PRACTICES (66%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



345 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: A Conservative Bid for Ryan to Be Romney's Running Mate

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR and TRIP GABRIEL; Michael D. Shear reported from Washington, and Trip Gabriel from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Conservatives are increasing the pressure on Mitt Romney again.That Mr. Romney has not yet named his vice-presidential nominee has created an opening for social and economic conservatives to pressure him publicly, and they have taken the opportunity to make an aggressive case for Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin.
In rallying around Mr. Ryan, a champion of cutting government spending and reining in the costs of programs like Medicare and Medicaid, conservatives are calling for Mr. Romney to select someone who can push their fiscal agenda, but they also are setting the stage for a possible letdown on the right if Mr. Romney chooses someone else in his race against President Obama. A strongly worded Wall Street Journal editorial on Thursday urged Mr. Romney to pick Mr. Ryan, saying he ''best exemplifies the nature and stakes of this election.'' 
The editorial follows a fresh wave of public pressure from other conservative outlets for Mr. Romney to erase doubts about his commitment to conservative causes -- an issue that has dogged Mr. Romney since his days campaigning as a liberal Republican for the Senate in Massachusetts.
''The conservative base of the party is so concerned about Obama and his approach to government that they are going to vote for Romney,'' said John Brabender, who was Rick Santorum's chief strategist during his nominating fight with Mr. Romney. ''The question is, are they going to make 10 phone calls to their friends and relatives because they care so passionately? That's going to be somewhat of a challenge.''
The Weekly Standard on Thursday urged Mr. Romney to embrace the conservative principles in Mr. Ryan's budget -- and Mr. Ryan himself as his pick for vice president -- predicting that Democrats will attack him for going after entitlement programs anyway.
''Romney, and Republicans, will be running on the Romney-Ryan plan no matter what,'' The Weekly Standard wrote. That view was echoed by Newt Gingrich, who lost a bid for the Republican nomination to Mr. Romney.
''If Romney needs to defend the Paul Ryan budget, there's no better way than to put Paul Ryan up front to defend it,'' he said, adding that Mr. Ryan could help Mr. Romney in culturally conservative parts of the industrial Midwest.
The not-so-subtle campaign among conservatives on Mr. Ryan's behalf may be moot if Mr. Romney has already made up his mind about a running mate, as some political observers believe. It is possible that Mr. Romney could announce his pick as early as this weekend, while on a scheduled bus tour through swing states. Speaking with Chuck Todd of NBC News on Thursday, Mr. Romney said his choice must add ''something to the political discourse about the direction of the country.''
The names on his shortlist are said to include Mr. Ryan; Senator Rob Portman of Ohio; and Tim Pawlenty, the former governor of Minnesota.
But the loud, public calls on Mr. Ryan's behalf underscore the wariness with which conservatives have treated Mr. Romney. They suggest that some conservatives remain eager for Mr. Romney to demonstrate that he is, in fact, one of them.
Mr. Romney's campaign added to the concern in the last couple of days on the issue of health care -- a source of lingering suspicion among conservatives because Mr. Romney, as governor of Massachusetts, once championed an individual mandate very similar to the one in Mr. Obama's health law.
In defending Mr. Romney against an attack ad highlighting a cancer patient whose husband lost his job at a steel mill owned by Mr. Romney's firm, the campaign praised the Massachusetts health care plan. In doing so, the campaign came perilously close in the minds of some conservatives to sounding like the president.
''If people had been in Massachusetts, under Governor Romney's health care plan, they would have had health care,'' Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for Mr. Romney, said Tuesday. That prompted Erick Erickson, of the conservative blog Redstate, to write on Twitter: ''OMG. This might just be the moment Mitt Romney lost the election. Wow.''
But in Iowa earlier, Mr. Romney went out of his way to talk about his health care experience: ''We've got to do some reforms in health care, and I have some experience doing that, as you know.''
Polls suggest that Mr. Romney's transition from primary candidate to presumptive nominee has deeply unified Republicans around his candidacy. Conservative support for Mr. Romney is strong in part because of a dislike of President Obama.
But Mr. Romney could energize conservatives and spur turnout even more by picking someone seen by the most ardent members of that group as someone who will be an uncompromising advocate for conservative principles inside a Romney White House.
The argument is about politics and about governing.
Advocates for Mr. Ryan argue that he would be a boon to Mr. Romney on the ballot by cementing in voters' minds an economic vision for the country that is very different than Mr. Obama's.
''The House budget chairman has defined those stakes well as a generational choice about the role of government and whether America will once again become a growth economy or sink into interest-group dominated decline,'' The Journal wrote.
But conservatives are also looking past November to the kind of White House they want should Mr. Romney win.
For some of those conservatives, a Romney administration stocked with moderate Republicans is almost as bad as a second term for Mr. Obama. And for some of them, even Mr. Ryan is not conservative enough.
Richard Viguerie, the conservative direct mail pioneer, called him ''a nice guy'' but said, ''He is not Tea Party.''
''He's part of the Washington crowd,'' Mr. Viguerie said Thursday. ''His solution is basically a version of Washington, D.C., insanity. His proposal doesn't balance the budget for 28 years.''
Mr. Viguerie said a ticket made up of Washington stalwarts would not motivate conservatives to work hard for Mr. Romney in the fall.
''Since Romney was not the first, second or third choice of most grass-roots conservatives and he spent massive amounts of money trashing conservative candidates, there is a lot of healing that needs to take place,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tim Pawlenty, left, and Rob Portman are said to be on Mitt Romney's shortlist for possible vice-presidential nominees. Mr. Romney could announce his choice as early as this weekend, while on a bus tour through swing states. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mitt Romney took his presidential campaign to Wisconsin in April, with Representative Paul D. Ryan by his side.(A8)
 Mitt Romney, the Republicans' presumptive nominee, leaving his hotel for a campaign event on Thursday night in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); MEDICARE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); MEDICAID (56%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (60%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (60%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); PAUL RYAN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); ROB PORTMAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) MIDWEST USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



346 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Battery Maker Finds Financial Lifeline in China

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The struggling American battery maker A123 Systems, which got a quarter-billion-dollar green technology grant from the federal government, said a Chinese auto parts maker was looking to take a controlling stake in it.Wanxiang Group plans to invest as much as $450 million, A123 said Wednesday, which would give the manufacturer the cash injection it needs to keep making batteries for electric and hybrid cars. A123 said last month that it had about five months' worth of cash left.
A123's chief executive, David Vieau, said Wednesday that his company hopes to do well in China, where there is a government-mandated expansion of the market for electric and hybrid vehicles. 
Wanxiang's chief executive, Weiding Lu, said in a statement that the deal would ''help expand the company's capabilities both domestically and internationally.''
A123's earnings report Wednesday underlined the company's downward spiral. It reported a second-quarter loss of $82.9 million, or 56 cents per share, and a 53 percent drop in revenue to $17 million.
Its cash pile was more than halved to $47.7 million at the end of the quarter, down from $113.1 million at the end of the first quarter.
A123 raised nearly $600 million from venture investors and an initial public offering in 2009. That year, it was awarded a grant under the $2.4 billion Electric Drive Battery and Component Manufacturing Initiative.
Wanxiang, one of the largest nongovernment-owned companies in China, has annual revenue equivalent to more than $13 billion and supplies auto parts to many of China's largest automakers.
But a foreign rescue of an industry favored by President Barack Obama has the potential to cause a political firestorm in a U.S. election year.
Already under attack from Republicans for backing green company flops like the solar panel maker Solyndra, Mr. Obama could face criticism for bankrolling technology that ends up in Chinese hands.
''This is a very troubling transaction that should be strictly scrutinized by the U.S. government,'' said Michael Wessel, a member of the bipartisan U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, which advises lawmakers on trade policy. ''This is a critical sector and one that American policy makers have focused on in terms of future economic opportunity and job creation.''
A123 received the $249 million government grant in 2009 under an Obama administration initiative to encourage the development of green technology.
In 2010, Energy Secretary Steven Chu visited A123's Romulus, Michigan, plant, where he applauded the company as being ''a perfect example of what's possible when the private sector, government and academia work together.''
But the advanced car battery industry has been hurt in part by too much capacity and weak U.S. demand for electric cars. At least two U.S. battery makers, one of which also received government backing, have failed this year.
Republicans including the presidential candidate Mitt Romney have blasted Mr. Obama for giving grants to help clean energy technology get off the ground. And the failure of two government-backed solar panel makers in the last two years has put the administration on the defensive.
The White House swiftly defended its policy after the A123 announcement.
The investment from China in A123 does nothing to damage a government program meant to promote domestic production of high-technology batteries, a White House representative said.
The government will not allow U.S. grant money to fund any facilities abroad, the representative added.
Solyndra, which filed for bankruptcy protection in September 2011, left taxpayers on the hook for $535 million in loans. The company filed a Chapter 11 reorganization plan in July.
Abound Solar filed for Chapter 7 liquidation in July.
The U.S. solar panel industry has blamed the failure of Solyndra and other companies on China's flooding of the world market with cheap panels.
U.S. government officials may choose to weigh in on the planned investment in the battery maker, Mr. Vieau said.
A123 has battery contracts with the German automaker BMW, the Chinese carmaker SAIC and the U.S. start-up Fisker Automotive, and is slated to provide batteries for General Motors' planned Chevrolet Spark EV.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BATTERY MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (72%); SOLAR ENERGY (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (68%); JOB CREATION (60%)

COMPANY: A123 SYSTEMS INC (92%); SOLYNDRA INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335911 STORAGE BATTERY MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3691 STORAGE BATTERIES (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (66%); STEVEN CHU (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



347 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Illegal Immigrants See Opportunity in New Rule

BYLINE: By ADESHINA EMMANUEL

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The work permits that young illegal immigrants can begin applying for next week under a new government policy will let American employers tap a generation of educated workers who have been confined until now to the shadowy corners of the economy, experts on immigration policy say.One of those could be Juan Escalante, a 23-year-old Venezuelan who has been in the country illegally since age 11 and is among those enthusiastic about the new opportunity. Not long ago, Mr. Escalante said, he feared that he might spend the rest of his life working as an assistant manager in an ice cream shop despite earning a bachelor's degree in political science and international affairs at Florida State University.
Getting a work permit ''would be amazing,'' he said, allowing him to look for work on Capitol Hill ''to see how policy is driven'' and to save enough money to help him pursue a master's degree in public policy. 
With the Obama administration about to put its new program in place, the Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan group here in Washington, says that 140,000 illegal immigrants in this country are enrolled in college. An additional 80,000 already have college degrees -- about 48 percent from two-year programs, 43 percent from four-year programs and 8 percent from graduate school.
Steven Raphael, a professor of public policy at the University of California, Berkeley, said many of the young people eligible for the program, which will start accepting applications on Wednesday, were now limited to jobs that do not require proof of citizenship or a work permit. They often have service jobs that pay cash, either in wages or tips, working as restaurant staff members, landscapers, home cleaners, baby sitters or dog walkers. Others start their own businesses off the books.
Roberto G. Gonzales, a sociologist at the University of Chicago, said the policy could provide some relief for a small number of the estimated 11.5 million illegal immigrants in the United States, and help solve a problem of ''wasted talent.''
In a decade of doing research about illegal immigrants, Professor Gonzales said he had come face to face with college-educated young people limited to low-skilled jobs. Many had training to work in fields like mechanical engineering, health care, education and law. The new policy could allow them to apply for jobs closer to their career aspirations, he said, as well as motivate high school dropouts to ''rejoin the mainstream.''
Still, like many other people who advocate for a broader change in immigration policy, he said the policy announced by President Obama in June fell short of the ideal. Professor Gonzales likened it to ''a kind of second-class citizenship'' and a ''legal limbo where status can change overnight with a change of administration, or with expiration of deferment or work permit.''
Opponents of the policy argue that it is ill-timed, given a dismal job market that is especially grim for Americans under 30 who do not have college degrees. Talk of harvesting ''wasted talent'' is ''just sugar to make the poison go down,'' said William Gheen, president of Americans for Legal Immigration, a political action committee. Mr. Obama is harming American workers by ''placing more illegal immigrants up against them as competitors,'' he said.
Those criticisms do not diminish the excitement of young people like Claudia Jimenez, of Florida, who finished high school last year. Asked what she has been doing since, Ms. Jimenez, a 19-year-old native of Venezuela who has been in this country since 2001, laughed uneasily and said she had not been doing anything.
''Now I have something,'' said Ms. Jimenez, who sees a work permit and employment as the first steps toward enrolling in college. ''I can actually do something with my life. Before it was like my life was on pause.''
The Migration Policy Institute says that about 800,000 illegal immigrants are enrolled in American schools from kindergarten through the 12th grade, and 500,000 of them are under the age of 15. About 350,000 young illegal immigrants 16 and older have no high school diploma or equivalent credential and are not enrolled to get either.
Clarissa Martinez of the National Council of La Raza, a civil rights organization, said: ''Many people might have thought, 'What's the point; I can be deported any time. I'll find a job in the meantime.' It's a net positive because the high likelihood was that they would have continued to live in and be part of the community anyway.''
Having a work permit could also help unauthorized immigrants whose dreams of college are thwarted because they cannot afford to pay tuition with the low-income jobs that they can get now. And if they do manage to get into college, they cannot do work-study jobs, paid internships or clinical training programs built into degree programs. They are typically not eligible for in-state tuition at state universities. Laws also block them from federal grants and loans for college.
The personal dream of Maria Marroquin, a 25-year-old from Peru who has been in this country illegally since age 13, is to enroll in law school and become an immigration lawyer -- a goal that had seemed impossible given the cost of tuition. This fall she will start her senior year at Dominican University, in Chicago's northwest suburbs. So far, she has paid for her education by working baby-sitting and domestic jobs. She also has received aid that Dominican University sets aside for illegal immigrants -- a rarity in higher education.
''If I do get a work permit it will definitely help me because I'd be able to work and either save money to go to law school or work while I go to school,'' said Ms. Marroquin, who volunteers for Dream Activist, a youth advocacy organization. ''It might not help me pay for all of it, but it will definitely help me pay for some.''
Work permits will also serve as proof of legal residence, allowing young immigrants to get driver's licenses -- an immediate benefit because they can look for jobs in places where public transportation is not available. They can also get Social Security numbers. When Mr. Obama first announced the new policy, owners of small businesses praised the change, saying it would make it easier for them to comply with laws requiring them to check the legal status of employees.
Angy Rivera, a 21-year-old illegal immigrant from Colombia who has been here since she was 3, is waiting to see the program in action before deciding what to do. ''I kind of feel like I'm in a zombie mode,'' she said. Ms. Rivera, who lives in Queens and is a part-time student at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, said she was initially indifferent about Mr. Obama's policy. But when Ms. Rivera, who writes an advice blog for young immigrants, spoke with other young people, she began to change her mind.
''Those who have been close to giving up, who have worked for nothing or been mistreated in their jobs, those who stopped believing in the American government's promise of equality for all, may start to see some ray of sunshine,'' she said

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maria Marroquin, 25, says the new work permit policy will help her to get a job that will enable her to pay for her education. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN MAXON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); LICENSES & PERMITS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CITIZENSHIP (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); SOCIOLOGY (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); ICE CREAM (69%); ENGINEERING (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (67%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (66%); DOGS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



348 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo; The 2012 Cycle: Attack, Feign Outrage, Repeat

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
The Democratic outrage machine is in full lather.On Wednesday, the talking heads and campaign operatives spewed angry e-mails and Twitter messages about Mitt Romney's latest television ad, which accuses President Obama of wanting to "gut" the work part of welfare to work.
"There is not an independent person that has looked at that ad, not one person that's looked at that and said it's remotely and substantially true," Robert Gibbs, a senior adviser to the president's campaign, said on MSNBC on Wednesday morning. 
Last month, the outrage was directed at another Romney ad that took a few lines from Mr. Obama about roads and bridges and twisted them into disrespect for small business. The president called it "out of context" and "flat wrong." Brad Woodhouse, a Democratic spokesman, said it was "trumped up, out of context" and "fact-checked to death."
But hang on a minute. Even as they mount their high horses to complain, Democrats are eagerly delivering their own attacks seizing on a snippet or two of Mr. Romney's comments, ignoring whatever he might actually have meant in favor of a quick-and-dirty hit.
On Wednesday, a Democratic "super PAC" began running an ad that essentially accused Mr. Romney of causing the death of a woman whose husband lost his job at a company owned by Mr. Romney's Bain Capital.
Cue the umbrage.
"It's sad and disappointing that President Obama's allies would stoop to such levels in an attempt to impugn Mitt Romney's character," said Amanda Henneberg, a spokeswoman for Mr. Romney.
Negative, out-of-context attacks have come to define the 2012 presidential campaign - as has the offense that is inevitably taken. It is the height of political chutzpah, where both sides slide back and forth between perpetrator and victim with no sense of irony along the way.
"This over-the-top crying that both campaigns are doing after they landed these blows - I think the American people are sick of it," said John Weaver, a political strategist who advised Senator John McCain of Arizona for years.
The candidates and their allies should stop "this fake personal injury that they are both going through," Mr. Weaver said. "There's no whining in this business."
And yet, in this political season, the whining has been almost as loud as the barrage of negative attacks that has preceded it.
 Democrats howled last year when Mr. Romney's campaign produced an ad showing Mr. Obama saying: "If we keep talking about the economy, we're going to lose." It turns out, the clip was from 2008, and Mr. Obama was quoting an aide to Mr. McCain.
 It was Mr. Romney's turn to cry foul a few months later when Democrats gleefully jumped on Mr. Romney's saying "I like to fire people" and "I'm not concerned about the very poor." They left out the context, he complained, though Democrats paid him no heed.
 But turnabout is fair play, it seems. So when Mr. Obama said that the "private sector is doing fine," the same Republicans who insisted on context were suddenly happy to quote the president without any. Complaints came streaming in from the White House and its allies.
 And yet, even as the Democrats complained about the private-sector comments, they seized on comments Mr. Romney made the same day about teachers and firefighters. Mr. Romney doesn't care about them, they said, ignoring whatever context there might have been to his remarks.
 However much they talked about the importance of context, Mr. Romney's campaign left most of it out in a barrage of ads showing the president saying: "If you've got a business, you didn't build that. Somebody else made that happen." He was talking about roads and bridges, a point that was ignored.
Mike McCurry, a former press secretary for President Bill Clinton, said neither side seems able to control the pace or intensity of the back-and-forth.
"They haven't found the volume knob," Mr. McCurry said.
"There used to be at least a sliding scale of what level of vitriol you would use in a campaign," he added. "You went to the highest level for the highest offense. What happens now is everyone just goes to the loudest and strongest response they can make. It just escalates the temperature of the campaign."
Negative attacks are not new. But in the age of Twitter and Facebook, neither side seems hampered by a concern that it might do something that crosses a line that the other side wouldn't.
On Wednesday, Democrats eagerly spread around a Huffington Post article about some of Bain Capital's initial outside financing coming from a group of Central American oligarchs. The article alleges that some of the investors may have also been financing death squads in El Salvador. The subject line of the e-mail from Mr. Woodhouse read simply: "Death Squads."
Over the weekend, Republicans seized on a lawsuit in Ohio by Mr. Obama's campaign that seeks to allow early voting for all residents, not just military families and those living overseas. In Mr. Romney's telling, though, the lawsuit was an attack on military families.
Each sides has expressed its disdain that the other would stoop so low.
"I remember feigning outrage myself on some days," said Mr. McCurry. "But not at this level. They just seem to be pounding each other."
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Negative, out-of-context attack ads by both sides have come to define the presidential campaign. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DNC RAPID RESPONSE
 ROMNEY FOR PRESIDENT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



349 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Two Investigations of Goldman Sachs End

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS and AZAM AHMED

 BODY:
9:06 p.m. | Updated Federal authorities ended two investigations into the actions of Goldman Sachs during the financial crisis, handing a quiet victory to the bank after years of public scrutiny.
In a statement late Thursday, the Justice Department said there was "not a viable basis to bring a criminal prosecution" against Goldman or its employees after a Congressional committee asked prosecutors to examine if the bank had been involved with any illegal acts related to several mortgage deals.
The Senate's Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations had examined troubled mortgage securities that Goldman sold to investors, who later sustained steep losses during the crisis. The subcommittee also suggested prosecutors investigate whether the chief executive of the bank, Lloyd Blankfein, had misled lawmakers during public testimony. 
Separately, Goldman Sachs announced early Thursday that the Securities and Exchange Commission had ended an investigation into a $1.3 billion subprime mortgage deal, taking no action. The move was an about-face for the commission, which notified the bank in February that it planned to pursue a civil action.
"We are pleased that this matter is behind us," a bank spokesman said Thursday.
The moves closed a difficult chapter for the bank, whose missteps became emblematic of Wall Street's excess. But for all the public criticism of the bank, the only law enforcement case to have surfaced against Goldman was a civil case that the bank settled for $550 million in 2010 over a mortgage investment that investigators said had been intended to collapse.
The announcements were also the latest indication that federal investigations into the financial crisis were petering out as the deadline to file cases approached. While the S.E.C. has brought more than 100 financial crisis-related cases, the agency was looking to take on a big case aimed at punishing Wall Street for its role in the crisis.
After President Obama announced the creation of a special task force in January to investigate the residential mortgage mess, the S.E.C. and other authorities vowed to hold the banks accountable. Wall Street packaged and sold subprime mortgages, including to the government-owned mortgage finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, that suffered billions of dollars in losses.
The subcommittee, led by Senator Carl Levin of Michigan, focused on a group of mortgage deals that Goldman had arranged and sold. Mr. Levin further suggested that Mr. Blankfein might have misled lawmakers when testifying about the deals.
But in a statement on Thursday, the Justice Department said it "ultimately concluded that the burden of proof to bring a criminal case could not be met based on the law and facts as they exist at this time." The agency said it would pursue the case again if new evidence emerged.
The S.E.C.'s inquiry into Goldman involved a package of subprime mortgages in Fremont, Calif., that the bank sold to investors in 2006. The S.E.C. was examining whether Goldman had misled investors into believing that the mortgage securities were a safe bet.
The S.E.C. in February sent the bank a so-called Wells notice, indicating that the agency 's enforcement team planned to recommend an action against the bank. At the time, Goldman said it would fight to convince regulators that they were mistaken.
On Monday, the bank learned that it was successful. Goldman was "notified by the S.E.C. staff that the investigation into this offering has been completed," the bank said In a quarterly filing released on Thursday Goldman said the agency's "staff does not intend to recommend any enforcement action."
Goldman's Fremont deal, known as Fremont Home Loan Trust 2006-E, was one piece of a broader investigation into the mortgage-backed securities. Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase have also received warnings of potential action by the S.E.C.
"Mortgage products were in many ways ground zero in the financial crisis," Robert Khuzami, the agency's enforcement director, said at a news conference for the task force.
The agency, along with other federal regulators and the Justice Department, is also pursuing an array of other cases stemming from the financial crisis. Goldman is not yet off the hook for its part in the Fremont deal.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BURDENS OF PROOF (78%); EVIDENCE (76%); LITIGATION (76%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (75%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (75%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); CARL LEVIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



350 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: Manchester Soccer Club Prices Stock At Low End

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
9:52 p.m. | Updated As publicly traded stocks, professional sports teams have generally been losers. Manchester United, one of the world's most popular soccer clubs, will soon find out whether its winning ways on the field will make it a rare exception.
It is off to a rough start. On Thursday, Manchester United, which raised $4.3 billion, priced its offering at $14 a share, below the expected range. 
The bigger test will come on Friday when the shares start trading. Investors will then decide whether they want to own a company whose fortunes are largely dependent on the performance of players like forward Wayne Rooney and goalkeeper David de Gea. Last season, the team failed to win a title, potentially costing the company millions of dollars in broadcasting revenue.
"Pro franchises don't throw off a lot of profitability," said Robert A. Boland, a professor of sports business at New York University's Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management. "They function more like real estate."
The markets haven't been kind to sports teams. The Boston Celtics went public in 1986 and the Cleveland Indians in 1998. But the stocks struggled, and both were taken private in the last decade.
Against that backdrop, Manchester United's choice of listing locale seems especially odd. It is headquartered in the Cayman Islands and is one of the most popular teams in the world. But, in the United States, soccer trails in popularity to football, baseball and basketball.
With its I.P.O., Manchester United is looking to take advantage of new regulation, the JOBS Act, which is intended to help private companies raise capital. Under the American rules, the owners, the Glazer family, can take the company public and still maintain control through a dual share structure.
Founded in 1878 by railway workers, Manchester United has long been one of England's most famous teams, with 19 league titles to its credit. Over its history, the team has changed hands several times, spending 14 years on the public markets.
In 2005, the American businessman Malcolm Glazer took the team private in a $1.45 billion deal. The Glazer family, which also owns the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, loaded the company with hundreds of millions of dollars in debt.
The question is whether the team can produce returns for its newest group of owners, public investors.
Last year, the company earned $20.4 million from continuing operations, like sponsorships, retail and merchandising, as well as new media and mobile platforms. Those business lines have recorded three consecutive annual increases in revenue.
But profits are also subject to the unpredictable nature of the business. A weak record or injured superstar can make the earnings relatively volatile. Sports teams also tend to reinvest any cash into sprucing up their stadiums or acquiring new talent, not rewarding shareholders.
Sports bankers indicate that the biggest payoff comes from the eventual sale of a franchise, not holding the stock. The latest generation of owners have come from Wall Street, well versed in retooling a business for potential buyers.
Such economics are a big reason sport teams rarely make good public stock.
While several sports teams are owned by publicly traded companies, they are generally supported by more prosaic businesses. Madison Square Garden, which owns the New York Knicks and the New York Rangers, derives a significant portion of its revenue from television licensing and advertising fees. The Atlanta Braves have been owned by Turner Broadcasting, Time Warner and now the Liberty Media Group.
Other teams are bankrolled by wealthy families or groups of investors, with the resources and devotion to deal with the down years. The Mara family has owned the New York Giants for decades.
That's because the public markets can put teams under pressure to assuage investors looking for short-term gains, at the expense of investing in talent, according to sports advisers. Partly in response, Manchester United's stock is set up so that buyers of the shares have far less say in the team's management than the Glazers, although such arrangements have been criticized by corporate governance experts.
Teams also want to keep their financial information hidden from prying eyes. Such data can prove useful when players' salaries are being negotiated. Mr. Boland said, "The last thing you want Scott Boras to know is how much your team is making," referring to the noted agent for professional athletes.
American sports leagues are not enamored with the idea of teams being owned by public shareholders, worried by the potential complexity and added financial disclosure. The N.F.L. requires that the principal owner of a franchise, including family members, control about 30 percent, with no more than 32 owners in total. The only exception is the Green Bay Packers, which received a waiver.
Other sports leagues have been similarly reluctant to allow a broad ownership, and must approve any drastic change to a team's structure. Such concentrations allows the leagues to pool resources together more easily, such as providing a financial lifeline to a struggling team.
The Green Bay Packers are structured as a publicly held corporation, though trading in the shares is strictly limited and the stock pays no dividends. Several Premier League soccer clubs have been publicly traded at one time or another.
But the stocks have generally performed poorly. In 1998, the Cleveland Indians went public at $15, quickly fell to under $10, then rose on the prospect of a sale. In 2000, Larry Dolan bought the team for $320 million.
"If I'm a publicly traded company, I want 15 percent growth every quarter or every year," Mr. Boland said. "Many sports teams usually generate a small profit or a loss."
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Manchester United has long been one of England's most famous teams, winning 19 league titles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX LIVESEY/GETTY IMAGES) (B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (93%); SPORTS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); SPORTS BUSINESS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); BASEBALL (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); GOING PRIVATE (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (64%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (60%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (58%)

COMPANY: MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON CELTICS (55%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (55%)

TICKER: MANU (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (90%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (90%)

PERSON: MALCOLM GLAZER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (92%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



351 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(2012 London Olympics)

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; olympics

LENGTH: 3675 words

HEADLINE: London Live: Follow Friday's Action at the Olympics

BYLINE: LYNN ZINSER


HIGHLIGHT: Live blogging Friday's action at the Olympics, including swimming, track and field, and taekwondo. 

 BODY:
In recent Olympics, the United States 4x100 meter relay teams have struggled just to pass the baton all the way around the track, but this time, the women's team put together the dream race: clean passes and a world record time.
The team of Tianna Madison, Allyson Felix, Bianca Knight and Carmelita Jeter shattered the world record in 40.82 seconds. Jamaica's set of superstar sprinters were mere spectators in second, .23 seconds behind for silver.
The U.S. team broke a 27-year-old world record set by an East German team widely believed to be part of a systematic doping system. It was among track's oldest world records.
In the men's 4x400 relay finals, the Bahamas won the first men's track and field gold in its history when Ramon Miller came from behind in the anchor leg to pass Angelo Taylor of the United States. The U.S. team, missing many of its stars to injury, took silver. Oscar Pistorius's last Olympic run with his South African team had him crossing the finish line in last place. 
It's also a day for basketball. In the first men's semifinal, Spain beat Russia, 67-59, in a sloppy, defensive game. The United States is playing Argentina in the second semifinal at 4 p.m. and we are live blogging it.
Follow all these events and more on Twitter @LondonLive.
5:12 P.M. | Golden Joy
4:56 P.M. | Track: Brown's Medal Collection
Chris Brown of BAH is the first man to win three #Olympic medals in men's 4x400m. Also has every color (bronze 2000, silver 2008, gold 2012)
- Joe Battaglia (@JoeBattagliaNBC)10 Aug 12
4:50 P.M. | Soccer: South Korea Men Win Bronze
South Korea's men shut out Japan 2-0 to claim bronze medal in soccer http://t.co/iGpVm3P9
- NYT Olympics Live (@LondonLive)10 Aug 12
4:47 P.M. | Track: U.S. Medal Update
US track and field now has 26 medals in London. Its best #Olympics total since 1992, when it had 30. Might tie that mark here
- Christopher Clarey (@christophclarey)10 Aug 12
4:37 P.M. | Track: Unlikely Pole Vault Podium
Renaud Lavillenie of France grabbed a gold medal in the pole vault after more familiar names faltered. Out early were Steve Hooker of Australia, the defending Olympic champion and U.S. champion Brad Walker. 
Lavillenie is still jumping for height.
Bjorn Otto and Raphael Holzdeppe of Germany took silver and gold.
- 
4:34 P.M. | Track: American Silver
The American relay team consisted of Bryshon Nellum, Joshua Mance, Tony McQuay and Angelo Taylor. Surprising that Taylor was caught at the end, but still a strong showing by the Americans considering the absence of LaShawn Merritt, Jeremy Wariner and Mateo Mitchell. Merritt pulled up in his first heat of the 400 meters, Wariner has a pulled hamstring and Mitchell sustained a broken leg in the semifinal.
- 
4:29 P.M. | Track: South Africa Finishes Last in Relay Final
The double amputee Oscar Pistorius got his last Olympic run, but the South Africa relay team was no factor in the final of the 4400 meter relay. Pistorius crossed the finish line in last place, the race long ago decided ahead of his run.
- 
4:25 P.M. | Track: Bahamas Catches U.S. for 4400 Relay Gold 
Ramon Miller of the Bahamas ran down Angelo Taylor of the United States in the final leg of the 4400 meter relay to prevent an unlikely gold. Taylor, a two-time gold medalist in the 400-meter hurdles, was an unlikely anchor leg because of injuries that knocked out three of the top American runners.
Miller ran a final leg of 43.8 seconds to win the first track gold medal for the Bahamas' men's team. Trinidad and Tobago finished third.
- 
4:07 P.M. | Track: Turkey Wins First Track Gold Ever
Asli Cakir Alptekin of Turkey won her country's first gold medal in track in the 1,500 meters, taking the lead in the final lap and staying strong down the final stretch. 
And the news only got better when Gamze Bulut of Turkey made a charge at the end to grab the silver medal. Maryam Yusuf Jamal of Bahrain took third.
For the second straight Olympics, Morgan Uceny of the United States fell and did not finish the race.
- 
4:00 P.M. | Record Update
Oldest world record still in books in Olympic t & field event remains Jarmila Kratochvilova's 1:53.28 in women's 800 in 1983 #London2012
- Christopher Clarey (@christophclarey)10 Aug 12
3:54 P.M. | Watch Out, Elizabeth
Jordan Burroughs didn't care that his finals foe was Iranian: "If the Queen of England came across that line, I'd probably double-leg her."
- Brian Cazeneuve (@BrianCaz)10 Aug 12
3:51 P.M. | Track: The Toppled Record
The world record the U.S. team just erased was 27 years old, which says a lot about the East German team that set it - namely, the systematic doping system employed by its sports federation then.
- 
3:44 P.M. | Track: Relay Stunner
Tianna Madison, Allyson Felix, Bianca Knight and Carmelita Jeter of the United States put together four amazing legs of this race to win in 40.82, slicing 0.55 of a second off the previous world record.
Together they turned the Jamaican team of Shelly-ann Frayser-Pryce, Sherrone Simpson, Veronica Campbell-Brown and Kerron Stewart into spectators. Madison made up the stagger on Frayser-Pryce on the first turn and it was only a matter whether the Americans could exchange the baton cleanly the rest of the way.
- 
3:43 P.M. | Track: U.S. Wins 4100 Relay in World Record Time
The United States women's 4100 meter relay team not only ran a clean race, they ran a spectacular one, shattering the world record while defeating the Jamaican team by nearly 20 meters. Amazing race.
- 
3:33 P.M. | is Hosting the Olympics Worth It?
Joshua Mills takes a look on the Economix blog whether hosting the Olympics is as big an economic boon as advertised.
3:21 P.M. | Track: Defar Wins 5,000
Meseret Defar of Ethiopia sprinted ahead of the contenders in the final straightaway to win the women's 5,000 in 15 minutes 4.25 seconds. She out-kicked her teammate Tirunesh Dibaba down the stretch and Vivian Cheruiyot of Kenya passed Dibaba as well for silver.
Dibaba won both the 5,000 and 10,000 in Beijing and won the 10,000 here, but could not complete the double sweep.
- 
3:14 P.M. | Track: Women's 5,000 Meters
With six laps to go in the 5,000 meters, the race hasn't really started yet. It's an easy pace, no moves to take control or push it. All eyes will be on Tirunesh Dibaba of Ethiopia, who is trying to add this race to her 10,000 meters victory and do that for the second straight Olympics.
- 
3:04 P.M. | Wrestling: Burroughs Wins Gold
Jordan Ernest Burroughs of the United States, the world champion, became an Olympic champion Friday by winning the gold medal in the men's freestyle 74kg. He defeated Sadegh Saeed Goudarzi of Iran.
- 
3:01 P.M. | Track: Hooker Out of Pole Vault
Steve Hooker of Australia, the defending Olympic champion in the pole vault, failed to clear a height in the final here and is out of the competition. Hooker has had a tough year, fighting a case of the yips that included a no-height at the world championships last year.
Brad Walker of the United States is also out after failing to make a height.
- 
2:56 P.M. | Track: U.S. Men Run Clean Relay
The U.S. men's relay heat went off without a drop and the team of Jeff Demps, Doc Patton, Trell Kimmons and Justin Gatlin won the heat by a ton.
Japan was second in the heat and Trinidad and Tobago was third.
- 
2:50 P.M. | Track: Britain Relay Disqualification 
The final exchange by the British team in the 4100 relay heat was clearly out of the zone and the team has been disqualified.
Canada moves up to second and the Netherlands is now third.
- 
2:47 P.M. | Track: Jamaica Wins Heat of Men's 4100 Relay
Jamaica, with no Bolt or Blake, ran away with the first heat of the 4100 relay. Britain finished second.
- 
2:40 P.M. | Bolt Wannabes, of All Stripes
So, the Olympics then. #london2012 #bolt http://t.co/DwFDGeSc
- Greg Wyshynski (@wyshynski)10 Aug 12
2:26 P.M. | Track: U.S. Wins 4100 Relay Semifinal
The United States team won its heat in the 4400 meter relay, which rarely involves baton-dropping, and advanced to the final. Russia finished second and Britain finished third.
- 
2:08 P.M. | Track: 4400 Relay Semifinals
Jamaica easily won the first semifinal, followed by Ukraine and France. The U.S. team is in the second semifinal.
- 
2:05 P.M. | Track: U.S. Relay Lineup
The four American women set for the 4100 relay are Tianna Madison, Bianca Knight, Carmelita Jeter and Allyson Felix.
- 
1:58 P.M. | Closing Ceremony Spoiler Alert
Apparently, the Spice Girls have been spotted practicing for a closing ceremony performance, with photos courtesy of The Daily Mail. This appearance only seems fair. David Beckham, after all, got to ride in the cool boat for the opening festivities. Victoria now gets her moment.
- 
1:45 P.M. | Basketball: Spain Completes Comeback
Spain used a strong second-half comeback to beat Russia, 67-59, in the first of the two men's basketball semifinals. Hope you followed along on our live blog. Please tune in again when the United States plays Argentina in the other semifinal.
If you missed it, however, you did not miss a barn-burner. Let's just say the Americans would be less than impressed.
- 
1:21 P.M. | Track: Racewalk, Fair or Foul?
In tune with Ken Belson of The Times, you may cue the debate over the racewalk as an Olympic event
1:10 P.M. | Track: What Should Bolt Do Now?
Christopher Clarey writes in The Times about where Usain Bolt heads from here, now that he's already made history.
1:02 P.M. | Basketball: Atmosphere Lacking
Russia remains in the lead over Spain in the third quarter of this semifinal men's basketball game. The play has not been scintillating (it's 38-31) and there are some issues with the atmosphere as well. Maybe all the more reason to follow on our live blog instead?
They hype man at this game is 1,000,000 times worse than anyone in the NBA
- Chris Mannix (@ChrisMannixSI)10 Aug 12
12:05 P.M. | Basketball: Follow Men's Semifinals
The Times will be live-blogging both semifinals in men's basketball. Russia and Spain are playing now in the first semifinal and you can catch all the action here. The United States plays Argentina at 4 p.m.
11:59 A.M. | BMX: Latvia Grabs Gold
Maris Strombergs of Latvia led the pack within five seconds of the start, maintaining his lead and winning the gold in 37.576.
Sam Willoughby of Australia took second in 37.929, with Carlos Mario Oquendo Zabala of Columbia finishing in 38.251 to win the bronze.
Liam Phillips of Britain and American Connor Fields of the United States crashed in the final turn of the race. Fields was able to finish in 1:03.033.
- 
11:54 AM | Volleyball: Russia Through to Gold Medal Round
Russia has taken the fourth set, 25-23, to defeat Bulgaria in four sets.
The Russians had to work for it in fourth set, as the upstart Bulgarians played with more emotion. 
The pro-Bulgaria crowd is giving them a big cheer as they leave the floor. Some of the Bulgarian players are crying.
- 
11:52 AM | Volleyball: Bulgaria's Timeout Backfires
The break did not help Bulgaria. Russia has taken the last three points to surge ahead, 24-23. 
It's match point for Russia.
- 
11:44 AM | Volleyball: Bulgaria Still in It
Bulgaria leads by 22-21 in the fourth, and every point is turning into a major strategic battle.
Bulgaria has called time to discuss things.
Russia leads in sets, 2-1.
- 
11:50 A.M. | BMX Results
The winner of women's BMX is the Colombian Mariana Pajon, who took the lead from the gate and finished in 37.706
Taking second was Sarah Walker of New Zealand with a time of 38.133, followed by Laura Smulders of the Netherlands with a time of 38.231
Alise Post of the United States, a favorite for the gold, did not advance to the finals after a gnarly crash in her third run in the
semifinals.
- 
11:33 AM | Volleyball: Russia Surges Ahead
Russia takes a 17-15 lead in the fourth set, still sticking with its tried and true net game.
- 
11:47 A.M. | BMX: Colombia's First Gold
Mariana Pajon of Colombia wins gold in women's BMX, Colombia's 1st gold medal of this Olympics http://t.co/98ryw63E
- NYT Olympics Live (@LondonLive)10 Aug 12
11:20 AM | Volleyball: Bulgaria Forces Fourth Set
The Bulgarians have gotten on the board, taking the third set.
It's 4-all in the fourth.
- 
11:33 A.M. | U.S. Womenistan?
How about this stat. If the #TeamUSA women were their own nation they would be third in gold medal count. One ahead of #TeamGB #girlpower
- Patrick Sandusky (@PatrickSandusky)10 Aug 12
11:27 A.M. | BMX Backdrop
BMX finals in 5 minutes! Does the BMX Track get your vote for coolest venue? http://t.co/Mh9iQB2m
- US Olympic Team (@USOlympic)10 Aug 12
11:25 A.M. | BMX: Finals Are Set
Eight BMX bikers - Connor Fields of the United States, Liam Phillips of Britain, Andres Eduardo Jimenez Caicedo and Carlos Mario Oquendo Zabala of Colombia, Sam Willoughby of Australia, Raymon van der Biezen and Twan van Gendt of the Netherlands, and Maris Strombergs of Latvia - have advanced to the finals, scheduled for 11:40 a.m. Eastern.
- 
11:08 AM | Volleyball: Russians Staying Calm
As expected, the heavily-favored Russians aren't losing their cool under Bulgaria's third set enthusiasm.
The Russians lead by 21-20 with only a few points to go for them to claim a spot in the gold medal game.
- 
10:54 AM | Volleyall: Bulgaria Clinging to Life
The Bulgarians look more fired up, likely thanks to an animated team huddle between sets. My Bulgarian is non-existent, but the content of the shouting seems universal: play better volleyball or we're done.
And they are, as it's 4-all in the third set.
- 
11:16 A.M. | Swimming: Golden Missy Update
We have a health update on the fur seal rescued from the shores of Oahu and delivered to a the Marine Mammal Center in the Bay Area, which named her Golden Missy after the young swimming star Missy Franklin. 
The Marine Mammal Center posted a photo of an apparently happy Golden Missy on its Twitter page:
Golden Missy (fur seal patient named for US Olympic gold medalist Missy Franklin) is eating well @ TMMC @FranklinMissy http://t.co/GWrFMnn8
- Marine Mammal Center (@TMMC)10 Aug 12
11:10 A.M. | Soccer: Not Everyone is Thrilled with U.S. Celebration
The fact that the U.S. women's soccer team donned Nike T-shirts immediately after their gold medal victory over Japan on Thursday did not sit well with everyone. The shirts, with a marketing slogan, "Greatness Has Been Found," sparked an online backlash in the wake of the team's triumph, taking a bit of gloss off the moment because Americans do like to think this is all about team and country and not about Nike.
- 
11:09 A.M. | Soccer: Caffeinated Celebration
A Gold Cappuccino for @hopesolo! http://t.co/hqXjaxVG
- U.S. Soccer WNT (@ussoccer_wnt)10 Aug 12
10:59 AM | Volleyball: Bulgaria Jumps Ahead
They're riding a wave of emotion, treating each won point with a big celebration and group hug.
Bulgaria leads, 13-10.
- 
11:03 A.M. | Rockin' at BMX
First Olympic venue I've been at that has its own DJ. Must be at. ... http://t.co/3stOeQmo
- Kelly Whiteside (@WhitesideUSAT)10 Aug 12
10:49 AM | Volleyball: Russia Wins Second Set
The Russian fans are dancing and waving their flags, as the their team has taken the second set, 25-15.
The Russians need one more set to advance to the gold medal round.
- 
10:39 AM | Volleyball: Russians Serving Strong
The Russians have a clear serving advantage, already logging six aces in the match.
The Bulgarians only have one ace.
Russia leads by 19-13 in the second set. The Russians took the first set, 25-21.
- 
10:48 A.M. | Case in Point on Those Synchro Uniforms
10:27 AM | Volleyball: Russians in Control
It took about a half of the first set for the Russians to figure out the Bulgarians, but it looks like they've done it.
Russia leads by 11-2 in the second set.
Bulgaria can't get anything past Russia's triple blocking at the net.
Bulgaria has called their second timeout of the set.
- 
10:40 A.M. | Uh, Yes
things for which there are no words: synchro swimming costumes.
- Kristen Layden (@KLaydenNBC)10 Aug 12
10:29 A.M. | Track: Bolt's Criticism of Lewis
Usain Bolt, the double winner of the 100 and 200, inserted into his post-race celebrations a stinging rebuke of the former track star Carl Lewis. Criticizing Lewis for casting doping aspersions on the current crop of sprinters is one thing - and entirely understandable on his part - but he slams Lewis for being an attention-seeker. Which is about the epitome of the pot calling the kettle black.
- 
10:24 AM | Volleyball: Russia Takes First Set
The Bulgarian fans are booing away, but they can't change the scoreboard.
Russia wins the first set, 25-21.
- 
10:19 AM | Volleyball: No Love Lost
This is turning into one of the more contentious matches, as it's clear Russia and Bulgaria - and especially their vocal fans - aren't feeling the love for each other.
Misses are greeted with cheers from the opposition. And if somebody cranks a kill, especially if he's Bulgarian, a shower of boos rings down from the stands.
As for the players, they're hardly acknowledging one another. No handslaps under the net for a great play.
Russia leads, 22-20, in the first set.
- 
10:21 A.M. | Rockin' at Synchro
Right now, synchro swimming team finals, Australia is synchro'ing to AC/DC. "Thunderstruck," "Back in Black." Fact. #London2012
- NYT Olympics Live (@LondonLive)10 Aug 12
10:13 AM | Volleyball: Setting Up the Gold Medal Match
The winner of the Russia-Bulgaria semifinal will face the survivor of the Italy-Brazil match.
The Italians are the upstart surprise of the final four, having dominated the United States in the quarterfinals.
Russia has tied Bulgaria, 17-17, still in the first set.
- 
10:11 A.M. | Triathlon: Sweden Appeals
After the Swedish Olympic team was unsuccessful in appealing the triathlete Lisa Norden's second-place finish to the International Triathlon Union, it has taken its case to the Court of Arbitration for Sport.
Norden and Nicola Sprig of Switzerland crossed the line at the same time in last Saturday's race, but Sprig was awarded the gold medal after officials decided she won in a photo finish. The Swedish team has based its appeal on asserting that Sprig's torso did not cross the line first and both athletes should be awarded a gold. 
C.A.S. said it would hear the appeal Friday and rule Saturday.
- 
10:05 AM | Volleyball: Russians Coming Back
Bulgaria had built a 3-point lead, but Russia's serving has cut it to 12-11.
The Bulgarians continue to be more active at net, winning 10 spikes to the Russians' six.
- 
10:09 A.M. | Pistorius's Last Go
This bit of relay news before tonight: @OscarPistorius will anchor the South Africa 4400. #olympics
- Joe Battaglia (@JoeBattagliaNBC)10 Aug 12
09:43 AM | Men's Volleyball Semifinals
It's Russia facing Bulgaria in the first of two men's volleyball semifinals today.
So far, Bulgaria has been quite aggressive at net and the Russians haven't found a way around its blocking.
Bulgaria leads, 5-3.
- 
9:43 A.M. | Cycling: Hamilton Stripped of 2004 Gold
The Olympic consequences of the cyclist Tyler Hamilton admitting to doping in an interview on "60 Minutes" last year finally came down Friday as the International Olympic Committee formally stripped him of the gold medal he won in the road race time trial in 2004. The gold will be awarded to Viatcheslav Ekimov of Russia, who now has three career gold medals in the Olympics.
Hamilton had sent a letter to the I.O.C. offering to give up the medal, and the I.O.C. had a deadline of eight years from the day the medal was won to make the move. The I.O.C. said the delay was because it wanted to ensure Ekimov was not implicated in any doping cases because both Hamilton and Ekimov had been teammates of the seven-time Tour de France winner Lance Armstrong, who has been accused of doping.
- 
09:25 AM | Mellouli Wins Marathon Swim
Oussama Mellouli of Tunisia has won gold in the men's 10-kilometer marathon swim in 1 hour 49 minutes 55 seconds at Hyde Park. 
Mellouli, 28, became the first to win a medal in the pool and open water swimming in the same Olympics. He won a bronze medal in the 1,500-meter freestyle last week. He won gold in the 1,500-meter freestyle at the 2008 Beijing Games. He is also the first two win gold in both disciplines.
Mellouli had to work for the win, as his large lead, established by a strong jump into first on the final lap, dwindled. 
Thomas Lurz of Germany and Richard Weinberger of Canada nearly tracked him down. Lurz took silver, and Weinberger won bronze.
The top American finisher was Alex Meyer, in 10th place.
- 
09:23 AM | Taekwondo: Tough Games for Lopez Family
The London Olympics was a rough one for the Lopez family. 
Steven Lopez, a two-time Olympic champion in taekwondo, lost his first-round match Friday, 3-2, to Ramin Azizov of Azerbaijan in the under-80-kilos division.
Lopez still has an outside chance of making the bronze medal round, but would need the top-seeded Azizov to reach the gold medal match. 
United States Coach Jean Lopez, who is Steven's older brother, told The Associated Press that he might urge his brother to withdraw because of an ankle injury. Lopez injured the ankle two weeks ago during training, putting his ability to compete in these Games in doubt.
"There is a baseline test we'll put him through," Jean Lopez told The Houston Chronicle. "If he passes he'll fight, if he fails he won't. He really wants to represent his country and do the best that he can, but as the coach I have to make the tough call and consider what is best for the athlete."
Steven has won three Olympic medals: gold in the 2000 Sydney and 2004 Athens Games, and a bronze at the 2008 Beijing Games.
His sister Diana, a 2008 Beijing bronze medalist, lost her first-round match Thursday to Hou Yuzhuo of China in the under-57-kilogram bracket. 
Like Steven, she also is injured, as she felt her knee "pop" during the match, according to Bill Kellick, a United States Taekwondo representative. Diana has been competing on an injured knee, with meniscus damage, for close to three months.
- 

        
Men's Basketball Semifinals Preview: U.S. vs. Argentina
        
Live: Spain Defeats Russia to Advance to Basketball Final
        
Men's Basketball Semifinals Preview: Russia vs. Spain
        
Anthony's Olympic Play Bodes Well for the Knicks
        
U.S. Women's Soccer Team Defeats Japan for Gold Medal

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RUNNING (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); TRACK & FIELD (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SOCCER (78%); ATHLETES (78%); MARTIAL ARTS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (74%); BASKETBALL (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%) Olympics; Dibaba, Tirunesh; Pistorius, Oscar; Olympic Games (2012)

PERSON: Dibaba, Tirunesh; Pistorius, Oscar

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (85%) UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); GERMANY (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); BAHAMAS (56%); SPAIN (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



352 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Is This Really the Worst Economic Recovery Since the Depression?

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Not technically, but it's still unusually bad. That especially stings because rarely is a sharp recession followed by a lackluster recovery. 

 BODY:
Economists often assert that we are in the worst recovery since the Great Depression. Are we?
Not technically, but it's still unusually bad.
Certainly the economy is in an abysmal state, and we still have about five million fewer jobs than we had when the recession began in December 2007. But the level of economic activity is so low chiefly because the recession itself was so severe; indeed, on many economic indicators, the Great Recession was the deepest (and longest) downturn since the Great Depression.
Technically, though, economists use the word "recovery" (or "expansion") to refer to the state of the economy a recession ends. So judging the "recovery" would mean looking at how much the economy has improved since it reached that very deep trough in June 2009, or 38 months ago.
I calculated the percentage change, from business cycle trough to business cycle peak, for a handful of economic indicators in all the previous postwar recessions, and compared those to the track record for the current recovery.
This isn't an entirely fair comparison, of course, since (hopefully) the economy has not yet peaked and will continue to expand.
Even so, on almost every measure I looked at, there was at least one previous (completed) recovery that performed worse. 
In most cases, it was the short-lived recovery that began in July 1980 and that "double-dipped" back into recession just a year later. With only 12 months to grow, the economy didn't get very far.
The only metric that had smaller growth in this recovery than in any previous one was government spending, although whether that is a good or a bad thing depends on your economic ideology. In fact, the public sector has not grown at all in the last three years; it is smaller today than it was when the recovery began. 
Even if the current recovery gets beat out on most negative superlatives by at least one other earlier recovery, it is still much worse than the recovery of the last six decades.
For example, as you can see in the chart at the top of this post, in the average recovery private residential investment - that is, housing - grew 24 percent. This time around, it grew 8 percent.
The gap is about the same for consumer spending and overall gross domestic product growth. Export growth has been slower, but then so has import growth.
Usually payrolls grow 15 percent from trough to peak over the course of a business cycle. So far in this recovery, they have grown only 2 percent. That's about as much as they grew in the recovery that began in July 1980, though as I mentioned that recovery lasted less than a third as long as the current one has stretched so far.
The only major metric I looked at wherein today's recovery outperformed the average expansion of the previous 60 years was corporate profits.
In the average postwar recovery, corporate profits rose 38 percent from trough to peak. So far into this recovery, they have risen 45 percent. 
That is not the largest increase of any postwar expansion, as the recoveries that lasted from November 1982 to July 1990 and from November 2001 through December 2007 both saw corporate profits increase by more than 60 percent. That record for the current recovery is still quite impressive, though, especially given how poor the job market still is.
In fact, the total level of corporate profits reached an all-time high, even after adjusting for inflation, in the last quarter of 2011, despite the fact that unemployment averaged 8.7 percent that quarter.
If you're looking for a way in which this business cycle does overshadow every other one since World War II, consider this: It's not unusual to have a steep downturn and then a steep recovery. It's also not unusual to have a shallow downturn and then a slow recovery.
But not since the Great Depression - also precipitated by a financial crisis - have we had a sharp downturn followed by a slow recovery. We lucked into the worst of both worlds.

        
On Debt Talks, a Lose-Lose-Lose-Lose Situation
        
Back to Where We Began. Finally.
        
After the Fall(s)
        
The Two-Track Recovery (or 'Depression'?)
        
Jobs Vs. Wages

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (92%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (91%); GREAT DEPRESSION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (79%); IMPORT TRADE (68%); EXPORT TRADE (60%) business cycle; corporate profits; Great Depression; Great Recession; historical comparisons; Recession and Depression; United States Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



353 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: Washington, D.C., Singular in Its Economic Optimism

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: National results from Gallup's Economic Confidence Index. 

 BODY:
Once again, a majority of residents in every state think the economy is getting worse. But in the District of Columbia, an apparent economic haven, people believe the economy is getting better.
That is according to new data on Gallup's Economic Confidence Index from the first half of the year. Here are the most economically optimistic scores:
The index is based on daily polls of American adults about current economic conditions and perceptions of where the economy is heading. Index values can range from negative 100 (if all respondents say the economy is "poor" and say it is getting worse) to positive 100 (if everyone says the economy is "excellent" or "good" and that it's also getting better). 
So positive index values mean that on balance a state's residents are relative upbeat about the economy, and negative values mean the state is relatively pessimistic. Only Washington, D.C., had a positive value.
The states that were most negative on the economy were led by West Virginia:
Washington, D.C., has been more economically confident (or in 2011, less pessimistic, since it had the highest index value but was still negative) than every state since 2009.
Gallup notes that one way to explain the capital's persistent optimism is that people usually express more confidence in the economy when their party is in power, and Washington, D.C. is heavily Democratic.
I proposed some other potential explanations for Washington's anomalous assessment of the economy in an article last year.
: Surveys were conducted on landlines and cellphones Jan. 2-June 30, 2012, with a random sample of 86,429 adults, at least 18 years old. The margins of sampling error for individual states are plus or minus three percentage points in most states, and nine percentage points for Alaska and the District of Columbia.

        
Washington, Capital of Economic Optimism
        
Worsening Attitudes
        
Losing Faith in Government
        
Job Insecurity Remains High
        
In Lost Opportunity of 1932, Are There Lessons for Today?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) consumer confidence; Gallup; politics; polling; Unemployment; Washington (DC); United States Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%) Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



354 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Latest Ethanol Mandate Raises Ire of Motorcyclists

BYLINE: MATTHEW L. WALD


HIGHLIGHT: Riders object to a rule that requires a minimum purchase of four gallons of fuel from pumps that dispense E15 and E10 from the same hose. 

 BODY:
However inconceivable it may seem, ethanol has managed to earn itself another enemy.
To service-station owners, refiners, vintage-car collectors, economists and car manufacturers themselves, add motorcycle riders.
At issue is E15, the fuel blend consisting of 15 percent ethanol and 85 percent gasoline, rather than the typical 10-percent, 90-percent formulation, E10. The Environmental Protection Agency has approved E15 for all cars from the 2001 model year and newer, although most standard cars warn in the owner's manual that using a blend above 10 percent can void the warranty. The E.P.A. has not approved its use for any motorcycles or all-terrain vehicles.
Last month a chain of service stations in eastern Kansas began offering E15 for passenger cars; higher-concentration ethanol formulations have long been available for so-called flex-fuel vehicles, which can run on any blend consisting of up to 85 percent ethanol. None of these, however, are intended for use in lawnmowers, leaf blowers or other gasoline-powered nonroad equipment, especially equipment that positions an engine close to the user, where a fire could be catastrophic.
To help keep E15 out of these and other engines, service stations offering E15 and E10 from the same pump station must agree to sell a minimum volume of fuel, four gallons, to the customer. The reason for the minimum purchase is to protect the engine of the next customer's vehicle, as the fueling hose retains roughly a third of a gallon from the previous customer's fill-up. Were the minimum-purchase rule not in place, a motorcyclist who followed an E15 customer at the pump, but who took only two gallons of E10, would receive a mixture that was nearly 11 percent ethanol. (The product of 1.67 gallons multiplied by 0.10 ethanol, which is 0.167, added to the product of .33 gallons multiplied by 0.15 ethanol, which is 0.05, would equal 0.217 gallons. That figure represents 10.85 percent of 2 gallons, rounded to 11 percent.)
But not all motorcycle fill-ups reach four gallons. Some motorcycles have tanks with that volume, but their owners may want to merely top them off.
Wayne Allard, vice president of the American Motorcyclist Association, noted the organization's displeasure in a media statement. "The E.P.A. answer simply won't work because of the sizes of many motorcycle and A.T.V. gas tanks and the fact that off-highway riders take containers of gas with them on their trips, and most times those containers are much smaller than four gallons."
His group wrote to the E.P.A. on June 20, and Byron Bunker, acting director of the compliance division of the agency's lab in Ann Arbor, Mich., responded in a letter (PDF) dated Aug. 1: "E.P.A. appreciates your concern about residual fuel remaining in a blender pump hose that dispenses E15 and E10 from the same hose."
The agency acknowledged that owners of motorcycles and A.T.V.'s "should pay careful attention to the labeling of blender pumps to ensure that an appropriate fuel is chosen, in this case E10 or E15." The agency added that it planned to conduct a "compliance survey" to ascertain whether the rule is enforced by service station owners.
"We will closely follow the results of the E15 Compliance Survey to determine whether additional misfueling mitigation measures are necessary,'' it said.
Left unstated was how, exactly, a service station with pay-at-the-pump equipment would catch a customer who purchased less than four gallons and insist that the customer buy more.
However small the problem may seem, it has already generated ire on Capitol Hill. Representative Jim Sensenbrenner, a resident of Menomonee Falls, Wis., home of a major Harley-Davidson factory, said in a statement: "The E.P.A. has no business mandating how much gasoline Americans have to buy when filling up at the pump."
"What if a rider doesn't have a motorcycle with a four gallon tank," he wrote. "Or if someone wants to fill a canister for their lawnmower or outboard boat engine, but it only holds two or three gallons? Or what if an American, struggling in this economy, just can't afford four gallons of gas?"

        
A Murky Value Case for a Higher Ethanol Blend
        
E15 Fuel Reaches the Masses (at One Station)
        
Wheelies: The Corner-Office Edition
        
Mud-Slinging Enters Debate Over Ethanol's Impact on Gasoline Prices
        
With Sales Imminent, Ethanol Blend's Impact on Engine Durability Remains Contentious

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); ETHANOL (92%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); MOTORCYCLES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); GASOLINE (78%); APPROVALS (76%) E.P.A.; E15; Ethanol; flex fuel; Automobiles; Motorcycles, Motor Bikes and Motorscooters; Environmental Protection Agency; Environment; Fuel Efficiency; Motorcycles

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%) Environmental Protection Agency

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



355 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: The Elusive Economic Lift of the Olympics

BYLINE: JOSHUA MILLS


HIGHLIGHT: Playing host to the Games rarely turns out to be an economic benefit for a country or city, and sports economists have shown how silly the expectations sometimes are. 

 BODY:
If you love athletics, rampant nationalism or large economies bullying small ones, you've probably enjoyed the Olympic Games in London immensely. If you bet that the British government's predictions of economic benefits would come true, you're probably less happy.
But you shouldn't be surprised. Playing host to the Olympics rarely turns out to be an economic benefit for a country or city, and sports economists have convincingly documented how silly the expectations sometimes are, as Nick Watanabe of the University of Missouridid with regard to the London Games ("Yeah, so if we don't include costs, there is a profit").
Part of the faulty calculation is a disposition to focus on revenue and ignore many of the costs - particularly the indirect ones, needed to address increases in traffic and thus pollution; crime, littering and so on. 
Partly it's the design of the modern games, and their emphasis on sexy venues that look good on TV. And the International Olympic Committee insists that running tracks and other venues be "just so," with little inclination to adapt to what's already there.
When the Bloomberg administration was pushing hard for New York City to get the 2012 Games, it insisted that a new Olympic stadium would need to be built on Manhattan's West Side - despite the presence in the metro area of three major stadiums. It also wanted to build a multimillion-dollar equestrian arena on Staten Island (which would be used for what after the Olympics?) despite the presence of Belmont and three other horse-racing tracks. (As recently as a few days ago, Mayor Bloomberg's point man on the Olympics, Daniel L. Doctoroff, trumpeted the positives of the project.) 
Chicago, with the enthusiastic support of Barack Obama, pushed for the 2016 Olympics, and its officials said a new Olympic stadium was needed, despite two major-league baseball stadiums and Soldier Field, a football stadium (home of the Chicago Bears) that was recently renovated.
Of course, it's not just the Olympics. Many plans for publicly financed stadiums boast of the economic benefits, as Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani did when he had minor-league baseball stadiums built on Coney Island and Staten Island - two of the most expensive minor-league parks in the country. What they've done for the local economies is a matter of debate. So, too, the lovely Harbor Yards complex in Bridgeport, Conn., with a baseball/lacrosse field and a basketball/hockey arena that was supposed to revitalize the downtown.
Another piece of the faulty calculation of Olympic benefits is they often fail to acknowledge the displacement of other economic activity. The Greek government and Greek businesses invested billions of dollars to hold the 2004 Games - and while they drew full houses, tourism in Greece was down for the year, because so many people stayed away and many promised improvements were never made (though Athens did gain a much-needed subway system). 
Think of it this way: the New Jersey Nets of the National Basketball Association are moving to Brooklyn and will play in the new Barclays Center (will it be renamed the Libor Arena?). 
Can you imagine two parents saying: "Hey, the Nets are coming. Grab the kids; let's increase our family entertainment budget 35 percent!" More likely, people who buy Nets tickets will cut back on other sports tickets or eating out or going to a concert or a movie. In effect, rather than creating new economic activity, spending is shifted from one segment to another. Sports economists have been documenting this for decades. 
And that's to say nothing of the cost overruns that come with almost every major construction project and the upkeep needed in subsequent years to keep athletics facilities clean, safe and functional. Sydney is spending millions each year. The wonderful velodrome built in London will undoubtedly be used by cyclists - but how many and how often and at what cost? Richmond, British Columbia, a suburb of Vancouver, built a speed-skating track for the 2010 Winter Games, at a cost of more than $170 million. 
And finally there's the notion that an internationally celebrated and much-visited city - London, New York, Paris - needs to call attention to itself. As public schools are increasing class sizes and dropping music and arts programs, firehouses are being closed and infrastructure is failing, how does being the host of the Olympic Games makes economic sense?

        
Taxing Olympic Medalists
        
Olympics: Money Matters
        
Women in the Olympics, Over Time
        
The Super Bowl and New York's Economy
        
Do Big-Time Sports Mean Big-Time Support for Universities?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (90%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BASEBALL (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); ATHLETES (78%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (78%); HORSES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TRENDS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (73%); BASKETBALL (73%); LACROSSE (73%); HORSE RACING (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (68%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (66%) Olympics; sports economics; Economic Conditions and Trends; Olympic Games; Great Britain

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (57%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (52%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GREECE (91%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



356 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Big Ticket | Sold for $32 Million

BYLINE: ROBIN FINN


HIGHLIGHT: A pair of brick buildings are destined to be gut-renovated and reimagined as a 12,000-plus-square-foot grand residence. 

 BODY:
Two adjoining brick buildings in the Greenwich Village Historic District that in a former incarnation served as an ice cream factory, a garage and a Steinway piano showroom, sold for $32 million, and combined are the biggest sale of the week, according to city records.
The properties, at 85-89 Jane Street, carried an asking price of $35 million when first listed in 2009 and were marketed as "the last great mansion site available in Greenwich Village" by Jim St. Andre and Peter McCuen of Peter McCuen and Associates. Ultimately, 85 Jane sold for $20 million and 89 Jane for $12 million, and they are destined to be gut-renovated and reimagined on a grandiose scale as a 12,000-plus-square-foot private residence. The low-rise buildings share 110 feet of frontage on diminutive Jane Street, the quaint, cobble-stoned, tree-lined enclave that stretches for five blocks from Greenwich Avenue to the Hudson River. 
The precedent for supersize domiciles is nearby at 777 Washington Street, a 20,000-square-foot residence and studio space once owned by the photographer Albert Watson. It was bought for $34 million in 2008 by a hedge-fund manager who, with permission from the Landmarks Preservation Commission after a planned renovation went awry, tore it down and built an urban mansion. Mr. McCuen and Mr. St. Andre brokered that deal as well.
"This wouldn't be the turkey-in-the-oven type of buyer; this had to be a buyer with vision," Mr. McCuen said of the appeal of 85-89 Jane Street, the antithesis of a turnkey trophy property. The buyer was identified - or more accurately, shielded - in city records as 85 Jane Realty and 89 Jane Realty, and the buyer's broker, Robby Browne of the Corcoran Group, declined to comment on the transaction.
The sale is further evidence that, despite the strictures on expansion typically imposed by the Landmarks Commission, this slice of the reinvigorated West Village on the cusp of the hyper-hip meatpacking district continues to attract deep-pocketed buyers in search of a downtown vibe. Jane Street, nicknamed "author's row" a decade ago because of the plethora of writers who lived there, might well be re-christened "hedge-fund row" if the trend persists. The only thing stopping it, according to real estate professionals, is lack of big-scale inventory.
The sellers of the two buildings, Danta Raso and Ricard de La Rosa, for decades operated Pro Piano, a Steinway piano showroom that catered to concert pianists, at 85 Jane Street, before closing down that business and renting the two-story 8,000-square-foot building to the Related Companies for a showroom and sales office during the construction phase of its swank Superior Ink condominium at 400 West 12th Street. According to Mr. McCuen, 85 Jane and the 4,000-square-foot garage at 89 Jane date back to 1910. Should the new owner be partial to ice cream, a couple of vintage cork-lined freezers remain upstairs at 85 Jane, remnants of its ice-cream-factory era.

        
Big Ticket | Sold for $19.4 Million
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $27,376,940.03
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $25.5 Million
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $17 Million
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $40,064,000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT & SUPPLY STORES (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); TRENDS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (73%); ICE CREAM MFG (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (66%); WRITERS (65%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%) Big Ticket; real estate; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Housing & Economy

COMPANY: STEINWAY MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS INC (85%)

TICKER: LVB (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339992 MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3931 MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



357 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Swift Rescue in U.S. Provides Lessons for Europe

BYLINE: LEE SACHS


HIGHLIGHT: The necessary steps to fix a financial crisis in the United States were painful and unpopular, according to the writer, who was the head of the Obama administration's financial crisis response team. But in Europe, the consequences of a delayed or inadequate response are far worse. 

 BODY:
The most recent commitments by European leaders to do "whatever it takes" to end Europe's financial crisis and preserve the euro are encouraging. Now, they must follow through on those words with specific actions.
The first rule of financial crisis management dictates that the earlier, more comprehensive and forceful a response is, the better the outcome is for the economy, households and taxpayers. As we learned in the United States, the necessary steps are often deeply painful and unpopular. But as we are learning in Europe, the consequences of a delayed or inadequate response are far worse.
In the United States, two administrations acted in concert with Congress and the Federal Reserve to quickly put out the financial fires in late 2008 and 2009. American political and economic leaders moved swiftly and aggressively to stabilize the banking system, reopen frozen credit markets and offset the effects of enormous global deleveraging with a series of financial programs. Though these involved initial outlays, the investment proved to be worthwhile, and taxpayers have recouped most of their investment. 
These financial stability programs were coupled with aggressive fiscal and monetary policy to support growth. 
None of these measures would have worked in isolation. They reinforced each other. And together, they stemmed the crisis and helped avert a second Great Depression.
Policy makers here still have more work to do to strengthen the economy and promote job growth. But had we failed to act, or simply delayed the tough but inevitable choices we had to make during the crisis, it is likely that hundreds of thousands more businesses would have disappeared, millions more families would have lost their jobs and homes, and trillions more in savings would have been erased.
Even today, many of these programs remain deeply unpopular because of the misperception that stabilizing Wall Street was an end goal, rather than a means to protect Main Street. 
In early 2009, the United States government put the nation's largest banks through rigorous stress tests to assess their health. With that transparency, and the confidence it engendered, private investors - not the taxpayers -- recapitalized the banks so that they would have the capacity to make new loans. And with the Fed, we unclogged the pipes of our financial system so that credit could resume flowing.
The connections between these policies and the people they affect are not as well understood as the auto industry rescue, which saved over a million jobs, or mortgage refinancing and modification programs, which are helping to keep millions of families in their homes. However, they are no less consequential.
Today, parents preparing for back-to-school shopping can get a credit card. Families wanting to buy a car can obtain an auto loan. Prospective homeowners can secure a mortgage. And businesses looking to hire and expand can finance their payroll and investments. All of these sources of credit would have been substantially more difficult - and in many cases impossible - to access if our financial system had been allowed to collapse.
Had we simply hoped the financial fires would burn out on their own or taken incremental steps out of fear of the political backlash, we would have caused more damage to the families and businesses we were trying to support. Had we allowed public anger, however justified, to dictate public policy, it would not have helped us turn around our economy any faster.
Europe provides a good object lesson in the harm to ordinary citizens of a "kick the can" crisis response. Euro zone economies are stalled or shrinking, while the United States economy has been growing for three straight years. The euro zone has lost jobs since early 2010, while businesses in the United States have added more than 4.5 million workers over the last 29 months. 
The contrast is even starker where the crisis has been most acute. Consider the effect of Europe's muddled response to Spain, a country whose troubles stem largely from the same type of collapse in its housing market that we experienced here. In Spain, lending to businesses has dropped 7 percent in the last two years and continues to fall, while lending to businesses in the United States is up 15 percent since then and continues to rise. Spanish auto sales were 13 percent lower in the second quarter compared with a year ago, while American auto sales were 16 percent higher. More than one in four Spaniards are out of work. The United States unemployment rate, while still high at 8.3 percent, has come down from 10 percent in late 2009. 
European leaders are certainly facing economic and political challenges beyond those we faced in the United States, and their solutions require the consensus of multiple governments - not just one. Their choices are not easy. But they will not become simpler the longer they wait, and they will not resolve themselves.
The price of further delay will almost certainly be a continued rise in unemployment, a deeper recession and a greater cost to taxpayers. Eventually, worsening conditions will force European leaders to act. Or they can choose to act on their own terms by moving quickly, decisively and comprehensively to do whatever it takes.

        
Too Big to Profit, a Hedge Fund Plans to Get Smaller
        
At a House Hearing, a Focus on Argentine Bonds

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (96%); EURO CRISIS (91%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EURO (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); FAMILY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (87%); CORPORATE DEBT (84%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (74%); DISMISSALS (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); TRENDS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); HOMEOWNERS (68%); LAYOFFS (65%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (60%) European debt crisis; sovereign debt; Troubled Asset Relief Program (2008); unemployment; Economic Conditions and Trends; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); United States Economy; European Monetary Union; Treasury Department; Another View; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: European Monetary Union; Treasury Department

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2012



358 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: In 'Supercapitalist,' Wall Street Is Back as a Villain

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: A new independent movie, "Supercapitalist," has updated the familiar villain of Wall Street greed with modern-day changes, like the rise of Hong Kong as Asia is the center for wealth and success. 

 BODY:
We at DealBook often dream of reviewing movies for The New York Times (A.O. Scott, we're available if you want a vacation). And once in a while, a finance-oriented film comes along to pique our interest.
A new independent movie, "Supercapitalist," incorporates modern-day tools (smartphones, computer data dumps) to the familiar villain of Wall Street greed. The film also touches on many of the business themes familiar to Wall Streeters: poison pills, short-selling, bets on Fed monetary policies and of course, wealth.
Though it may seem that financiers would shun anything that would cast them in a harsh light, the film's executive producers include Sam Kwok, who is a director at a venture capital firm focused on early-stage media and technology investment, and John Hsu, who manages his family's investment portfolio of stocks hedge funds, properties, private equity and venture capital.
 The director, Simon Yin, also nods to the globalization of money that has shifted financial centers to other parts of the world. Although New York plays a major role, it is now Hong Kong that is main backdrop as Asia is the center for wealth and success. 
Derek Ting - who is also producer and writer -- plays Conner Lee, a smart, up-and-coming hedge fund trader in New York at a firm not-so-subtly named Supercapitalist Inc. Linus Roache assumes the role of the hedge fund's boss -- a clean-cut Wall Streeter named Mark Patterson - while channeling a modern-day Gordon Gekko from the Oliver Stone film "Wall Street."
In the opening scene of "Supercapitalist," Mark declares to clients the insider trading that is at the heart of "Wall Street."
"Back in the '80s and '90s, information was key," he says with a gravelly voice. "Now it's a whole new game." He soon adds, "Hedge funds, gentlemen, are the future."
Mark does business in a private jet, in a hotel room while having a romantic encounter and on the patio of his Manhattan apartment, doing yoga with Apple ear buds in place. He and others in the film are recognizable characters of high finance, but their egomaniacal ways stoke a culture clash abroad.
Seeing Mark as a father figure and being the good solider, Conner trots out to Hong Kong, with just enough navet to see his mission -- of managing a struggling investment, the fictional trading firm Fei & Chang -- as a noble goal.
Conner also becomes a stand-in for the cold-hearted American business practices, as he proposes that the big family-run company in Hong Kong fire a good portion of its managers and sell assets to improve the bottom line. 
In one scene in Hong Kong, an investment banker, Michael Baker (Jake Boswell), tells how he and his "banker friends" muscled a local eatery into adding English to its menu. "Classic M.&A.," he says. Conner asks how the locals felt about the changes. "Locals? Who cares?" Michael says.
The Western financiers treat Hong Kong as a playground. Conner's colleague, Quentin Wong (Darren E. Scott), has a loose interpretation of Guanxi, the Chinese concept of business relationships. To him, the practice involves projecting an image of excess wealth and using bribery to ferret out business information.
The film occasionally winks to the classics of the genre. In one scene, a boy shows off a computer game that lets players buy and sell companies. In one corner of the screen is a green button with three words: "Purchase Gekko Bonds."
While finance is at the heart of the movie, ultimately, it is family that is the core message of the movie, rather than greed is good. 
 "Supercapitalist" opens on Friday in New York, and later in Washington, San Francisco and Los Angeles, and is also available on video on demand on cable and on iTunes.

        
Hong Kong Regulator Defends Tougher I.P.O. Proposals
        
Hong Kong Regulator Seeks Penalties for I.P.O. Fraud

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (74%); PRIVATE EQUITY (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); SMARTPHONES (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INSIDER TRADING (68%); INVESTMENT BANKING (68%); WRITERS (65%); MONETARY POLICY (55%) Derek Ting; Gordon Gekko; Hong Kong; Linus Roache; Supercapitalist; Roache, Linus; Hedge Funds; Movies; Wall Street (Movie); Supercapitalist (Movie); Financial Services; Investment Banking; Video

PERSON: Roache, Linus

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (91%); ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2012



359 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; culture

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: Out There | Signing On

BYLINE: KEVIN MCGARRY


HIGHLIGHT: Lower East Side storefronts along the Bowery are providing new homes for a series of after-hours murals. 

 BODY:
The New Museum's dynamic silhouette and jazzy accouterments - Ugo Rondinone's rainbow "HELL, YES!" that branded the building's third story when it first opened in 2007 and the spindly steel rose by Isa Genzken that now occupies that perch - have become familiar sights on the Bowery. And while it's no secret that an influx of art galleries has transformed the entire Lower East Side into Chelsea's junior rival, whatever culture business takes place on this historically gritty thoroughfare in particular is still shrouded by industrial facades.
Last summer, Art Production Fund commandeered several storefronts' steel rollers for a series of after-hours murals; now, one relatively new space has permanently annexed its frontage for art. Across the street and down one block from the New Museum is 208 Bowery, a late-18th-century federal town house that is home to a restaurant supply store on the ground floor, and on the second and third floors to Jack Chiles's namesake gallery. Chiles has reclaimed the building's upper-level signs and offered them to artists as a "residency" site. Too flat for personal occupancy, the space provides a temporary home to murals and conceptual slogans.
"The idea for the sign project came about," said Chiles, "when the store below the gallery was leased and the owners covered the entire front of the building with signs for their business saying, 'Chair Table Booth.' I jokingly mentioned to my landlord that this was misleading for my business, and he revealed that actually it was in my lease that I should be allowed to use the signs on my floors."
The first round of signs were unveiled in March. A collaboratively authored "tanning haiku" commemorating the Fukushima nuclear disaster by Kerstin Braetsch and Adele Roeder of Das Institut and United Brothers (Ei and Tomo Arakawa) spelled out "B Personal / Sun in the Sky Blocked, / Radiants Cost" on the face of the building. Jutting out from it was a hanging light box advertising the dates for the artists' forthcoming show in Japan, and on the reverse, a graphic designed by Braetsch and Roeder.
This time around, the artist Rirkrit Tiravanija did the honors. His sign, which went up in late July, will remain on view until the end of September. (Further camouflaging with the neighborhood, Chiles and his co-curator Pati Hertling enlisted Danny Bowien of the blazingly popular Mission Chinese Food on Orchard Street to cater the opening dinner.) "FREEDOM CANNOT BE SIMULATED" is writ large, literally, on the upper sign, while the light box is printed on either side with an elegant stack of Chinese characters. Those in the traditional font on north-facing side translate to "Time not waiting," while the more modern script on the south-facing side approximates "Don't Waste Time." Somewhere in between the two is a message about economy that is well served by maximizing exhibition spaces, and this one abuts illustrations of stovetops and meat slicers.

        
Timely | Camera Sly
        
Out There | 'Pictures From the Moon'
        
Up Close and Personal | 'Second Skin' at VPL
        
Artifacts | The Rondinone Spirit
        
Artifacts | The Loveable 'Ungovernables'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); PAINTING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); COOKWARE & KITCHEN STORES (67%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (67%); RESTAURANTS (67%) art production fund; Bowery; haiku; Isa Genzken; Jack Chiles; Lower East Side; new museum; Rirkrit Tiravanija; ugo rondinone; Culture

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (73%) UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2012



360 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: After a New Immigrant's Killing, Conflict in a Coal Town

BYLINE: SAM DOLNICK


HIGHLIGHT: For a new documentary, the Pulitzer Prize-winning photographer and filmmaker David C. Turnley went to Shenandoah, Pa., where he found a town struggling to make sense of an immigrant's death. 

 BODY:
The four young men were star athletes in Shenandoah, a hardscrabble Pennsylvania town where high school football had provided one of the few bright spots since the coal mines shut down.
Luis Ramirez, a Mexican farmhand, was part of a new wave of immigrants that had settled in Shenandoah and found work on farms and in factories.
In July 2008, the four football players attacked Mr. Ramirez in a dark playground. Mr. Ramirez died soon after, and the four boys were charged with murder. The killing split the town in two, threatening Shenandoah's self-image as an all-American hamlet, and staining the Blue Devils football team, revered by toddlers and grandparents alike. 

David C. Turnley's "Shenandoah" trailer. 
It was a tragedy that touched upon several great national themes - the dislocation wrought by fading industry, the turmoil of immigration, the endurance of sports - and David C. Turnley, a Pulitzer Prize-winning photographer, was there to grapple with them all. He turned the story of the murder and how it shook the town into "Shenandoah," a wrenching documentary that he shot, directed and produced.
"It was just an amazing opportunity to try and understand just where we're at in this country today," he said. "The proverbial American melting pot had never exactly melted in Shenandoah. It had always been a boiling pot."
Mr. Turnley spent four years burrowing into the lives of people on all sides of the story, whether the burly football players who participated in the attack, their parents who struggled to understand it, or Mr. Ramirez's family both in Shenandoah and in Mexico.
Mr. Turnley has worked in some 75 countries, covering the biggest stories of the past 35 years - apartheid in South Africa, the war in Bosnia, the fall of the Berlin Wall. But as a native of Fort Wayne, Ind., an industrial town that knows hard times, he calls "Shenandoah" the most personal work of his career.
"This was a coming-home story for me," he said. "Of all the world conflict and stories I've covered, I'm not sure that I've covered such acutely intense human drama in one small town."
The film weaves the football team's struggles on the field with scenes of tense anti-immigrant protests, trial preparation and quiet, confessional interviews on darkened porches. In the months after the murder, Shenandoah, called Shen'doh by the locals, becomes a national flash point as immigration advocates come to town, television cameras in tow, demanding justice.
But the film also steps back to explore the larger story of Shenandoah's rise and fall. Old-timers looking out on deserted streets describe a lost world where everyone had work and knew one another's families. Now, the coal mines are closed, unemployment is high and some neighbors speak only Spanish.
The conditions may be ripe for resentment, but it is especially striking to see the tension in Shenandoah, which celebrates the generations of European immigrants that made the town vibrant.
Mr. Turnley is a photographer's photographer: "Once you've done what we do, it becomes your identity, and it's in our blood," he says. The movie is filled with the stuff of dramatic photographs: the empty trays of a too-quiet doughnut store; the trophies and jerseys decorating a childhood bedroom. But filmmaking has allowed him to add another layer to his work.
"I'm making images, always, but I'm also engaging people in conversation, and I'm trying to get to know not only what I experience in terms of what I see, but also tapping into the hearts and minds of people," said Mr. Turnley, who has made two previous films.
He spent months talking to Brian Scully, who was charged in the attack and emerges as the film's most compelling character. Mr. Scully was a football idol who testified against his friends and finds a redemption of sorts in, of all things, musical theater.
Many of the most pointed moments in "Shenandoah" show Mr. Scully trying to understand his responsibility for the murder. "We needed to get in trouble for this," he says in the film. His voice softens as he continues: "I started to think about Luis as a person."
Mr. Turnley hopes to show "Shenandoah" at a film festival in the coming months. There are no plans yet for a wider distribution, but he is eager for the world to see his work.
"The human drama of the story kept unraveling in ways start to finish that you never would have imagined," he said.
 James Estrin contributed reporting. 
 Follow @ShenandoahFilm, @samdolnick and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. The film, "Shenandoah," has a Facebook page, as does Lens. 
An earlier version of this blog post misstated the surname of the immigrant who was attacked and later died in Shenandoah. He is Luis Ramirez, not Luis Gonzales.

        
Life on Both Sides of the Border
        
Modern Agonies in Ancient Mexican Villages
        
The Opportunity, or Not, to Be American
        
A Reckoning at the Frontier
        
Pictures of the Day: Nigeria and Elsewhere

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); MURDER (90%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); COAL MINING (89%); FARM LABOR (78%); CHILDREN (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MINE CLOSINGS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%) David Turnley; High school football; Immigration; Rust Belt; Sam Dolnick; Shenandoah; Turnley, David; Documentary Films and Programs; Immigration and Emigration; Murders and Attempted Murders; Photography; Mexico; Pennsylvania; Showcase

PERSON: Turnley, David

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT WAYNE, IN, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (58%) INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (73%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (69%); GERMANY (58%) Mexico; Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2013



361 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Romney Advisers Dismiss Recent Dip in Polls

BYLINE: MICHAEL BARBARO and TRIP GABRIEL


HIGHLIGHT: Determined to avoid perceptions that Mr. Romney's support is slipping, a senior adviser said there was no legitimate explanation for the swing in recent polls. 

 BODY:
BOSTON -- Advisers to Mitt Romney on Friday dismissed a series of new national polls that showed their candidate's standing had weakened against President Obama, but they conceded that they could not explain what they called a "huge shift" in the numbers. 
Determined to avoid perceptions that Mr. Romney's support is slipping, a senior adviser told members of the news media that there was no legitimate explanation for the swing in polls released by Fox News, Reuters/Ipsos and CNN over the past week.
The polls are an ill-timed distraction for the Romney campaign, which is beginning a four-day bus tour on Saturday across the swing states of Ohio, Florida, North Carolina and Virginia.
"Guys, it's the middle of the summer. It's the doldrums," said the senior adviser, who asked not to be identified. "It's the middle of the Olympics. There has not been any national news, anything that would push these numbers from minus 3 to minus 9 points."
"You've got to have something to precipitate that kind of sea change," the adviser said. "The attitudes toward the economy, attitudes on right direction, wrong track haven't changed a bit. It hasn't changed; it is still the same as it was a month ago in terms of attitudes toward the economy."
In a national Fox News poll conducted Sunday through Tuesday, Mr. Obama led Mr. Romney by 9 percentage points, 49 to 40. In July, a Fox News poll showed Mr. Obama with 45 percent to Mr. Romney's 41 percent - but that month-to-month change is within the poll's margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points, and it may not signify an erosion of support for Mr. Romney. 
But since Mr. Romney solidified his status as the Republican candidate in late May, his numbers have remained fairly steady in Fox News polls, while Mr. Obama has seen an uptick of 6 points. 
And independent voters in the recent Fox poll favored Mr. Obama by 11 percentage points - a jump from a 4-point lead a month ago.
A CNN/ORC pollconducted Tuesday and Wednesday found Mr. Obama with an advantage, 52 percent to 45 percent, a 7-point difference, which is within the poll's margin of error of plus or minus 4 points on each candidate. 
In a briefing about the bus tour at Mr. Romney's campaign headquarters in Boston, the senior adviser batted away suggestions that the candidate was suffering from self-inflicted wounds.
Mr. Romney recently completed a high-profile trip abroad that featured several days of unwelcome headlines from Britain and Israel.
Nor did the adviser explore the potential role of Mr. Obama, whose campaign has pounded Mr. Romney in a torrent of negative commercials, especially in swing states, during the past few weeks. 
"I don't know," the adviser said when asked to explain the polling. He said that if the shift in polling were meaningful, it would show up in tracking polls conducts by groups like Gallup and Rasmussen. "And we are not seeing it there," the adviser said. 
The Gallup tracking poll for Aug. 3 to 9 had each candidate with 46 percent support among registered voters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); NETWORK TELEVISION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%) The Caucus

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



362 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Culture Of Fraud

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Economists debasing their reputations. 

 BODY:
Still on vacation, but I have internet access for a bit, and have checked in on a few matters. The big story of the week among the dismal science set is the Romney campaign's white paper on economic policy, which represents a concerted effort by three economists -- Glenn Hubbard, Greg Mankiw, and John Taylor -- to destroy their own reputations. (Yes, there was a fourth author, Kevin Hassett. But the co-author of "Dow 36,000" doesn't exactly have a reputation to destroy).
And when I talk about destroying reputations, I don't just mean saying things I disagree with. I mean flat-out, undeniable professional malpractice. It's one thing to make shaky or even demonstrably wrong arguments. It's something else to cite the work of other economists, claiming that it supports your position, when it does no such thing -- and don't take my word for it, listen to the protests of the cited economists.
And by the way, this isn't obscure stuff. To take one example: the work of Mian and Sufi on household debt and the slump has been playing a big role in making the case for a demand-driven depression, which is exactly the kind of situation in which stimulus makes sense -- so you have to be completely out of it and/or unscrupulous to cite some of their work and claim that it refutes the case for stimulus. Or to take another example, which Brad DeLong picks up, anyone following the debate knows that the Baker et al paper claiming to show that uncertainty is holding back recovery clearly identifies the relevant uncertainty as arising from things like the GOP's brinksmanship over the debt ceiling -- not things like Obamacare.
Can Hubbard, Mankiw, and Taylor really be that out of it? I don't think so. They just believe that they can pull one over on the rubes, and pay no professional price. Let's hope they're wrong.
Simon Wren-Lewis wonders what could have possessed Mankiw and Taylor to sell their souls this way. I won't pretend to have a full answer. But surely part of it is simply that they have been caught up in the vortex of the broader Romney campaign -- a campaign that has made fraudulence part of its standard operating procedure. Remember, Romney spent months castigating President Obama because he "apologizes for America" -- something Obama has never, in fact, actually done. Then he spent weeks declaring that Obama has denigrated small business by claiming that businessmen didn't actually build their own firms -- all based on a remark that was clearly about infrastructure. 
Meanwhile, Romney's tax plan is now a demonstrated fraud -- big tax cuts for the rich that he claims would be offset by closing loopholes, but the Tax Policy Center has demonstrated that the arithmetic can't possibly work. He turns out to have been dishonest about when he really left Bain. And on and on.
So this is a campaign that's all about faking it -- fake claims about Obama, fake claims about policy, fake claims about Romney's personal history. 
Is it really surprising, then, that the economists who have decided to lend their names to the campaign have been caught up in this culture of fraud> Maybe some of them were initially reluctant, or thought they could support the campaign with selective renderings of the truth. But the pressure was on to be team players, to give the campaign material it could use -- and so, one day, they all ended up putting their names to a report that is just plain dishonest, in ways that can be and have been easily documented.
This would be a terrible thing even if it were in a defensible cause. It's even worse when the goal is to elect a man who seems to have no core, no purpose save personal ambition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); DEBT CEILING (71%); TAX RELIEF (70%); PERSONAL DEBT (66%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); TAX LAW (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



363 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: Voices from the Battleground States

BYLINE: MARINA STEFAN


HIGHLIGHT: Follow-up interviews with poll respondents from battleground states offer a glimpse into how likely voters view both of the candidates. 

 BODY:
The latest batch of Quinnipiac University/New York Times/CBS News polls show a tight race between President Obama and former Gov. Mitt Romney in the battleground states of Florida, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Colorado, Wisconsin and Virginia. Follow-up interviews with poll respondents offer a glimpse into how likely voters view both of the candidates. 
On Mr. Romney's business experience: 
Amy Burch, 36, an independent who is an environmental scientist from Melbourne, Fla.:
Romney's a businessman and he obviously ran successful businesses and turned industries around. So if you think of the government as a business, which most people probably don't, he'll be able to use his business sense to help turn the economy around. As businesses succeed, they grow and with growth jobs are created. 
Magie Ward, 29, a Republican legislative aide in Columbus, Ohio, and a Romney supporter: 
He was the head of a business that was very successful and that's sort of like operating on a smaller scale from being the head of a country whose economy needs improving.
Richard Kafonek, 50, an independent and a production planner for a manufacturing company in Shrewsbury, Pa.: 
Because Romney has been involved in a business environment, he has more experience than Obama has with business operations and situations that involve decisions affecting profits and losses. I think that a person who wants to run an economy in a capitalistic environment, which America is based on, needs to have been exposed to a capitalistic business environment.
Mitch Wall, 67, an independent and a part-time real estate agent from Riverview, Fla.:
I think his experience as a governor gave him some insight into the roadblocks that government can put in the way of businesses and corporations. I also feel that his time at Bain, while somewhat controversial, gave him the knowledge and experience to understand from a business perceptive how to create economic growth, which also creates jobs for the middle class.
The Obama campaign has spent heavily this summer in an effort to define Mr. Romney as wealthy and out of touch with middle-class Americans. Other lines of attack focused on his connections to outsourcing at businesses owned by Bain Capital and his reluctance to release more than two years' worth of tax returns. Several respondents picked up on these themes. 
Shawn Rolingher, 44, an independent who is a physician assistant from Golden, Colo.:
It's a trust issue with Romney. I'm not happy with how secretive he is being about the tax issue. There might not be any real reason he is not forthcoming except he just feels personally that he doesn't have to disclose anything, but I think if you're running for a public office you need to open yourself up more than he has.
John Ong, 84, an independent and retired driller and tree surgeon from Dunn, Wis. who is supporting Mr. Obama: 
I don't trust Romney. He's for the one-percenters, as they call them. And the only jobs he created were over in India and China. He's trying to cover up and hide something about his taxes, because he doesn't want to release his tax returns. I think he's just for the rich.
Jen Kanchy, 20, a Democrat, Obama supporter and a student from Oxford, Ohio.
I feel like Obama cares about the people way more than Romney does. Romney says he wants to stabilize the economy, which would be good, but I feel he is more interested in profits and money. Barack speaks for the common people and he's actually trying to change things. I'm excited because this is my first time voting. I'm really pumped. 
That level of enthusiasm for the president is not matched by some voters in these states.
John Underwood, 66, is an independent and a retired carpenter from Boscobel, Wis.: 
If I had to choose between them, I would chose Romney, but I plan to write in Ron Paul. I think the two people running are just not working for us. At least Romney would be better for the economy because at least he has experience in the business world, whereas Obama was a community organizer and a senator for a short time. Romney would be more able to handle the economy.
Nita Cermak, 51, is an independent from Lagrange, Ohio, who works as a school bus driver (and drives a cement mixer during the summer). She said she voted for Mr. Obama in 2008, but is "not happy with him. I thought he would do more than what he has. What has he really accomplished?"
I'm not pleased with Romney either. I don't think he will do any better. I think the country is in so much trouble no one knows where to begin. I don't know if I'm voting for Romney but I'm definitely not voting for Obama. It's a possibility I may not vote and if that happens it'll be the first time I haven't voted since I was 18. And I'm a firm believer in voicing my opinions and voting. I wish we had more choices.
Ethel Beerer, 71, is a Democrat and a retired nurse from Olmsted Falls, Ohio, who says she's undecided this year. 
Actually, I really don't know who I'm voting for. I've always voted Democrat, but I know the Republicans are against the health care bill. There's a chance I may not vote at all. I'm waiting until I've heard more clear cut ideas and discussed the issues with friends.
Mr. Obama gets mixed reviews on the economy from likely voters who say they're independents. 
Darryl Perdue, 46, is an independent and a pipe fitter from Roanoke, Va.: 
I'm voting for Obama because he's done a good job with the economy. He inherited a big mess. A lot of people have failed to realize that when he walked into office, the Dow Jones was down to 5,900 and it is now 12,000 and that's a good thing. He has created jobs. Maybe the economy has been slow but it is better than it was.
Glenn Drum, 66, is an independent and a retired hospital administrator from LaValle, Wis.: 
I think Obama is on the right track in taxing the wealthy. They need to pay their fair share. That's a big factor for me, even if it's more anti-Romney than pro-Obama. I also feel that the economy is getting better. The unemployment rate has been dropping over the past year. New jobs are being created. I think Obama's fiscal programs are working, even if they're slow to come around.
Thomas Stephens, 70, is a retired tool-and-die maker from Studley, Va., who considers himself an independent.
I have negative feelings about Obama. He promised all this stuff. In my opinion he's probably the biggest liar we ever had in office. He said he would change everything. Well, he changed everything but it was for the worse. I've been a Democrat all my life, a strong one. Bill Clinton was a good president. More people had jobs, more young people could afford houses, and if you had a 401(k) you made money.
Mary Cooper, 78, is an independent from Winchester, Va. The retired school kitchen manager said she will vote for Mr. Romney, but primarily because she opposes Mr. Obama.
Obama has done so many things that scare me. I feel that my freedom's been taken away.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); JOB CREATION (73%); OUTSOURCING (73%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); LANDSCAPING SERVICES (66%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (61%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012; Colorado; Florida; Ohio; Pennsylvania; Virginia; Wisconsin; Polling

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Colorado; Florida; Ohio; Pennsylvania; Virginia; Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012



364 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Aug. 10: Iowa, the Forgotten Swing State

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: We know much less about what's going on in Iowa than in the other swing states, but there was a new poll there on Friday, and it had pretty good news for Mitt Romney. 

 BODY:
Some swing states get more polling love than others. In Florida, the matchup between President Obama and Mitt Romney has been tested 29 times by pollsters since last November. In Ohio, there have been 25 polls, and in Virginia, 27. 
But Iowa? Just nine polls there since November, or about one per month. So we know much less about what's going on there than in the other swing states. But there was a new poll out there on Friday, and it had pretty good news for Mitt Romney. 
The survey, from Rasmussen Reports, had Mr. Romney two points ahead among likely voters. This is a base-hit poll for Mr. Romney rather than a home run, since Rasmussen's polls are a bit Republican-leaning and since there wasn't much movement from its prior poll of the state (which had Mr. Romney one point ahead). Still, after a tough week of polling, Mr. Romney should be pleased with any swing-state lead that he can get.
Our forecast still has Mr. Obama as a modest favorite in Iowa, although his probability of winning the state declined to 63 percent from 67 percent on the new survey. Part of the reason is that, in the absence of a sufficient amount of polling, the model weighs what we call "state fundamentals" fairly heavily. 
The most important fundamental is simply how the state voted, relative to the national trend, in the past couple of presidential elections. Iowa is typically just slightly Democratic-leaning: it voted for Mr. Obama by 9.5 percentage points in 2008, as compared with his national margin of victory of 7.3 points. Iowa's economy is also fairly healthy, and Mr. Obama has raised about twice as much money as Mr. Romney there. These are factors that have some modest predictive power.
So Iowa should be Mr. Obama's state to lose -- certainly if the national race is roughly tied, and more so if Mr. Obama holds a lead of a couple of points nationally. If we see more polls like this from Iowa, it will qualify as a swing state in which he's underperforming.
Mr. Romney also got some decent news from the national tracking polls on Friday. His lead in the Rasmussen Reports national survey held at four points, and Gallup's tracking poll moved back into a tie. 
The balance of polling data has still been favorable to Mr. Obama over the past few weeks -- but as I wrote yesterday, it's very unlikely that there has been some sort of sea change in the race. And Friday was one of Mr. Obama's weaker polling days in some time, albeit on a thin volume of surveys. Mr. Obama's chances of winning the Electoral College declined to 72.0 percent in the forecast, from 73.3 percent on Thursday.

        
Iowa: Racially Homogeneous, but Politically Diverse
        
Aug. 3: A Good Week for Obama in Forecast
        
July Jobs Report Likely to Preserve Status Quo
        
Aug. 1: Obama Extends Electoral College Advantage
        
Pennsylvania Flaunts Its Importance

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TRENDS (75%); STATISTICS (71%) barack obama; Iowa; mitt romney; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012; Rasmussen Reports; Polling; projection update

ORGANIZATION: Rasmussen Reports

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (91%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012



365 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Goldman Disclosure a Rare Break in Secrecy

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: After deciding not to prosecute Goldman Sachs for its conduct during the financial crisis, the Justice Department did something rare: it publicly announced that the investigation was closed. 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - After deciding not to prosecute Goldman Sachs for its conduct during the financial crisis, the Justice Department did something rare: it publicly announced that the investigation was closed.
The unusual public announcement came after Goldman's lawyers pushed for a notification that the bank would not be charged, according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity.
In a 450-word statement issued late Thursday, authorities said that "based on the law and evidence as they exist at this time, there is not a viable basis to bring a criminal prosecution."
 Many legal experts agree it would have been hard to bring charges. But the public announcement also raised eyebrows because under most circumstances criminal inquiries are shrouded in secrecy. When the Justice Department decides to end a criminal inquiry without prosecuting, it usually does not disclose that decision to the public - or even to the target of the investigation.
The Justice Department's decision rankled Wall Street critics who want banks to pay for their actions. On Friday, the senator that had requested the criminal investigation denounced Goldman.
"Whether the decision by the Department of Justice is the product of weak laws or weak enforcement, Goldman Sachs" actions were deceptive and immoral," Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat, said in a statement.
By closing its case, the Justice Department has removed the taint of a possible indictment against Goldman, which had already paid $550 million to settle a related civil matter brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission. "We believe that the Justice Department's examination has been thorough and impartial," said Andrew Williams, a Goldman Sachs spokesman.
Federal prosecutors began investigating Goldman more than a year ago after the Senate's Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations issued a blistering report highlighting questionable conduct by Goldman and other banks. It focused on Goldman's lucrative business of selling pools of subprime mortgage securities to clients while simultaneously betting on a decline in the housing market. In effect, the report concluded that Goldman had profited by betting against the very mortgage investments that it sold to clients.
It also suggested that Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman, might have misled lawmakers when testifying about the mortgage deals. Mr. Blankfein said that the bank never bet against its clients for its own profit.
As part of the report, Mr. Levin, the chairman of the subcommittee, referred Goldman's case to the Justice Department for a criminal investigation in April 2011. But after investigating Goldman for more than a year, the Justice Department decided not to bring a case.
"The department and its investigative partners conducted an exhaustive review of the report and its exhibits, independently gathered and scrutinized a large volume of other documents, and tenaciously pursued potential evidentiary leads, including conducting numerous witness interviews," the Justice Department said in its statement.
Separately, Goldman also disclosed on Thursday that the S.E.C. would not pursue any further claims against the bank related to the sale of a $1.3 billion mortgage bond deal.
On Friday, legal experts said that it was always unlikely that the government would bring a criminal prosecution against Goldman Sachs.
Ever since the 2002 indictment of Arthur Andersen caused the accounting giant to collapse and caused thousands of job losses, the government has been reluctant to bring charges against a company.
Instead, companies are now frequently offered so-called deferred prosecution agreements in which they pay a fine and agree to government oversight instead of facing criminal prosecution.
"The likelihood of the Justice Department indicting a 'too big to fail bank' like Goldman Sachs was always slim-to-none," said Stephen M. Plotnick, a securities lawyer at Carter Ledyard & Milburn. "And a major hurdle in a criminal prosecution of Goldman's executives was proving that they intended to defraud their clients."
While the decision not to charge Goldman was not surprising, the uncommon public announcement by the Justice Department raised eyebrows. Because it is illegal to disclose the existence of a grand jury investigation, under most circumstances criminal inquiries are shrouded in secrecy. And when the Justice Department decides to end a criminal inquiry without prosecuting, it usually does not disclose that decision to the public - or even to the target of the investigation.
The Goldman case, however, fit within an exception to these secrecy rules because of the immense publicity surrounding the investigation of the bank. Justice Department lawyers are permitted to comment on investigations that have leaked to the public or received substantial media attention, according to department guidelines.
For instance, in another case involving a bank, the Justice Department announced in August 2011 that it had closed a criminal investigation of Washington Mutual and its former executives connected to its collapse during the financial crisis.
The Justice Department has also announced that it was not bringing criminal charges in several leaked investigations of prominent politicians, including the former New York governor Eliot Spitzer and the former New Jersey senator Robert Torricelli. Earlier this year, federal prosecutors in Los Angeles announced that they had closed their investigation of Lance Armstrong without charging him, nearly two years after they began looking into accusations that he and his bicycling teammates had committed a variety of possible crimes by doping.
"Leaked investigations are like storm clouds that hang over companies and individuals, making it incredibly difficult for businesses to run or for people to live out their lives," said Boyd M. Johnson III, a partner at WilmerHale and a former federal prosecutor. "The Department of Justice has a responsibility to seriously consider issuing public statements of declination where investigations have leaked. It is a matter of fundamental fairness."
While it no longer faces the prospect of criminal charges, Goldman has absorbed substantial damage to its reputation from Abacus, the complex subprime mortgage product that it sold to clients. And even though it settled with the S.E.C., a midlevel employee in the bank's mortgage unit, Fabrice Tourre, still faces a civil trial related to the Abacus transaction. Its public image has also taken a hit from unflattering portrayals in the media, including its depiction as a "vampire squid" in a Rolling Stone article.
On Friday, Mr. Levin said that the Justice Department's decision only highlighted the need for stiffer regulations for Wall Street banks under the new Dodd-Frank financial reform laws.
"Yesterday's announcement makes it even more important that regulators implement Dodd-Frank with rules that do not water it down, and that they enforce those rules with vigor," he said. "The integrity of our financial markets and the strength of our economy demand that we make sure that actions such as Goldman Sachs's and other recently discovered misdeeds by financial institutions are ended."

        
The Fine Print of Goldman's Subprime Bet
        
Goldman Spins Away From Success

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (94%); INVESTIGATIONS (92%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (86%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (86%); MISCONDUCT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); WITNESSES (77%); TESTIMONY (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); SECURITIES LAW (69%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (61%); SUBPRIME LENDING (61%); HOUSING MARKET (50%) Carl Levin; Goldman Sachs; Justice Department; Lloyd C. Blankfein; Mortgage-Backed Securities; Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations; Levin, Carl M; Banking and Financial Institutions; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (96%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Justice Department

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (90%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (78%) Levin, Carl M

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2012



366 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING | INVESTING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Equity Funds Shrink as Investors Move To Bonds

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Investors pulled cash out of stock mutual funds for the fifth consecutive month in July, while bond funds again attracted new cash, new statistics showed Friday. Anxiety about stocks is running so deep that net deposits into bond funds through July are already 50 percent greater than the total for all of last year. A net $12.7 billion was withdrawn from stock funds last month, an industry consultant, Strategic Insight, said on Friday. It was the biggest monthly net withdrawal this year, despite the 1 percent rise last month in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Through July, nearly $28 billion has been pulled out. ''Investors continue to dismiss the positive trends reflected in steady gains in the economy, employment, real estate prices and the stock market,'' said Avi Nachmany, research director with Strategic Insight. Investors instead appeared to be focused on avoiding the potential for short-term losses, he said. Although cash flowed out of United States stock funds last month, investors deposited a net $1 billion into funds investing in foreign stocks. Year-to-date, international stock funds have attracted $34 billion in new cash, according to Strategic Insight. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); BONDS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BOND FUNDS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); TRENDS (77%); REAL ESTATE (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012



367 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: A Hopeful Sign: Job Openings Rise

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
THE number of jobs available in the United States has risen to its highest level in four years, the Bureau of Labor Statistics said this week, providing more evidence that the job market is slowly recovering.There were 3.8 million job openings at the end of June, up 105,000 from the previous month and the most since July 2008. That is also 1.6 million more openings than when the market hit bottom in July 2009.
All of the gains in May came in the private sector. The number of open government jobs declined in June, as it had in two of the preceding three months. But at 363,000, the government figure was well above the low of 280,000 reached in 2009. 
The government's Jolts report -- Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey -- comes out more than a month after the widely followed monthly job numbers are released and, as a result, gets little attention. But it provides significant information on how the job market is changing by asking a sampling of employers how many workers were added during the month and how many left. It also seeks information on why those people left, and on how many jobs the company has that it is seeking to fill.
In normal times, one thing that stands out is just how much turnover there is. During the most recent 12 months, the government estimates that 51.4 million people started new jobs, and that 49.6 million people left old ones, voluntarily or otherwise. Those numbers may be a little inflated, since the survey is of individual sites, not of entire companies. A worker transferred from I.B.M.'s New York office to its Los Angeles office might be counted as leaving one job and starting another, for example.
Still, the total number of jobs begun during the 12 months equaled 39.2 percent of the total of jobs that existed a year earlier. But the number of separations was nearly as high, equaling 37.8 percent of jobs. Before the recession began, the hiring figure was as high as 48.1 percent, while the departure figure was at 46.1 percent.
The accompanying charts show the total number of job openings each month since the Jolts numbers were first calculated at the end of 2000, as well as the ratio of the number of unemployed workers to that figure. Back in 2000, when an economic boom was ending, there were nearly as many jobs available as there were unemployed workers. By the summer of 2009, there were 6.7 times as many unemployed workers as there were open positions. Now that number is down to 3.4, little more than half the peak level. But it remains higher than it had been until the recent recession began at the end of 2007.
If the rate of separations were the only labor market indicator available, one might think there had been no real problem in recent years. The rate of separations in the private sector was lower during the crisis than when the economy was doing well, and has only risen a little since the economy began to recover. Workers who once might have quit to seek a better position are less likely to do so. Among government workers, even the departure of temporary census employees in 2010 was not enough to raise the separation departure rate to prerecession levels.
During the crisis, the number of workers being dismissed rose above the number of workers quitting, but now departures are more likely to be voluntary, at least officially. The third category of departures, labeled ''other,'' includes transfers and deaths but is dominated by retirements. More than a fifth of government departures fall into that category, and many of them probably are early retirements of workers who were offered incentives to leave by government agencies trying to avoid or minimize layoffs.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: More Openings, Fewer Firings: The number of unfilled jobs in the American economy has risen to the highest level since 2008. At the same time, the ratio of unemployed workers to openings has fallen to about half the peak level, although it remains significantly higher than it was before the recession began at the end of 2007. Turnover in jobs remains below historical levels, reflecting a reluctance of employees to risk what they have. The proportion of dismissals among those leaving their jobs has fallen, but remains above prerecession levels. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, via Haver Analytics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STATISTICS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (78%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012



368 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Become A Star Tracker

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
If you are an unemployed young American, right now you are probably asking yourself: what are the job opportunities of the future? Opportunities more remunerative than unpaid internships and more accessible than, say, synchronized swimming?Consider a career as a political tracker.
The trackers are the people hired to follow around a candidate's opponent and record every single thing he says or does. Maybe he'll get tired and admit to an audience that he forged his college diploma or that he's wanted for cattle rustling in Wyoming. Probably not. But it is possible that he'll casually tell a questioner that he prays the media will stop covering ''sob stories'' about how someone ''couldn't get, you know, their food stamps or this or that.'' Which did actually happen the other day in Wisconsin. 
So no campaign should be without an opposition tracker. Honestly, if a candidate for the U.S. Senate is not being constantly trailed by some earnest young person with an HD camera, it means that she is so hopelessly behind in the polls that nobody cares if she crashes her car into an Adopt-a-Pet van. It's sort of insulting. I'll bet there are borderline candidates out there who hire someone to pose as a tracker just so people will think they're being taken seriously.
You may be wondering about job requirements. Chris Harris, the spokesman for American Bridge 21st Century, a Democratic research organization that employs 18 trackers, says they need to be ''part cinematographer and part political operative'' as well as ''generally versed in policy and history.''
However, the most critical qualification for a tracker is to know what the trackee looks like. This came up recently in Indiana when a man who was hired to track Representative Joe Donnelly, the Democratic Senate candidate, mistakenly wound up tailing a criminal court judge named Jose Salinas, who believed that he was being stalked by an aggrieved former defendant and went to the police.
Also, trackers should be careful not to ask the person they're trailing for medical help. In Arizona, a man who was filming the every move of the Democratic Senate candidate Richard Carmona mentioned that he had a strange bump on his leg and Carmona, who used to be the U.S. surgeon general, diagnosed a possible hematoma. The examination was filmed by the Carmona campaign, which, of course, had trackers tracking the trackers.
You do not need this sort of basic operation on the presidential level because every single word any candidate says is instantly recorded by hundreds of cameras and cellphones and magic little boxes that no one over the age of 23 knows about, but which, I understand, can take images and turn them into robot holograms capable of doing basic household chores.
So the presidential campaigns have to go the extra mile. Right now Mitt Romney is off on a four-day bus tour, and the Obama forces are following the same route in a bus full of Massachusetts state legislators from the Mitt era, called ''Romney Economics: The Middle Class Under the Bus.'' (Everything about the Romney campaign seems somehow connected to transit: buses, horses, car elevators, dogs strapped to the car roof.)
''We're going ahead of his route,'' said Brad Woodhouse, the communications director for the Democratic National Committee. ''We don't want to directly confront him. We don't honk horns and act childish like his campaign does.''
Tracking first became a glamour career in 2006, when Senator George Allen of Virginia saw one in the crowd, announced he wanted a campaign of ''positive, constructive ideas'' and then jovially and repeatedly referred to a young Indian-American who was filming him as ''macaca.'' It pretty much undid Allen's campaign, and he lost his re-election race. Although he's running again now.
Nobody ever goes away in this business, people. Eliot Spitzer has a new cable TV show. John McCain is still in the Senate. Just when you thought you'd gotten them out, they're back in again.
There was a time when recording a candidate's every motion would have been regarded as impolite. In the 19th century, when reporters first started showing up on the campaign trail, politicians would refuse to give their stump speech because there was a person in the crowd who was trying to write down the exact words. Totally unfair.
But that was long ago, when a good political campaign involved rousing, three-hour speeches and people rolling huge balls from town to town to demonstrate their partisan commitment, and torchlight parades and drunken attacks on your opponent's parades and balls. Nobody even knew what the candidates looked like. And voter participation was nearly twice as high as it is now that we've had the opportunity to see absolutely everything that goes on.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); COUNTERFEITING (76%); MAMMALS (75%); SWIMMING (72%); SPORTS (72%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); FILM (63%); JUDGES (61%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

PERSON: JOE DONNELLY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012



369 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: A Dire Dance for a Harlem Cultural Center

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
Stomping and twisting, homeless mothers and children and young professionals were all part of the mix at the Dwyer Cultural Center in Harlem one recent Saturday, as they tried to master the intricacies of swing dancing. But scenes like this have been few and far between lately. The Dwyer, which since opening three years ago has attracted 75,000 visitors to visual art exhibitions, readings, writers' workshops, children's educational programs and music and theater performances -- all free or low-cost -- has run into major financial problems.The culprits include a punishing economic climate that has hurt other Harlem cultural institutions, and missteps by the Dwyer's operator, the International Communications Association. The cultural center, at the base of a nine-story condominium building that was once an abandoned warehouse, plans to continue limited public programming through the end of the year, as the association restructures and seeks to reclaim its nonprofit tax status. Beyond that, however, the center's future is very much in doubt.
''Our story is like the phoenix bird kind of thing,'' said Voza Rivers, a vice president of the association. ''We took something out of the ashes, but the question is, how high can the bird fly?'' 
The International Communications Association, started in the late 1980s to help African-Americans, Hispanics and others find jobs in the media, never intended to get into the condo business. But when the development rights to the Dwyer were awarded with the stipulation that 7,000 square feet of its space be devoted to a nonprofit group, the Harlem Urban Development Corporation reached out to the association to join forces with a developer. After years of false steps, a developer came on board and built the market-rate condos, while the association developed the nonprofit space.
The Dwyer's distinction is that it was designed specifically to showcase Harlem's history and to support its established and future artists. Since 2009 the $3 million Dwyer Cultural Center, at St. Nicholas Avenue and 123rd Street, has hosted events like performances by the jazz trombonist Craig S. Harris, storytelling workshops by the playwright Daniel Beaty and an exhibition that included Faith Ringgold's quilts.
But community and arts groups have not rented space as much as expected. The children's gym occupying the retail space in the condo complex closed this spring, a reflection of the woes afflicting many small businesses in Harlem. (In just the last few weeks, the Hue-Man bookstore, a Harlem fixture, closed, as did the only neighborhood bowling alley, Harlem Lanes.)
The association did not develop a well-connected board that could help with fund-raising. And when the Internal Revenue Service revoked its tax-exempt status in 2011, citing a failure to file tax returns for three consecutive years, it could no longer solicit private, corporate or government support as a nonprofit.
As a result, operating expenses have exceeded revenue at a ratio of five to one, forcing the association to spend three times more than projected to subsidize the center. Mr. Rivers declined to say how much money was left. But according to a reorganization report he shared, the association suffered net losses of $298,201 in 2009, $275,816 in 2010 and $258,385 in 2011.
''We didn't lay out a strategy to keep moving forward,'' said Cliff Frazier, the association's founder and president. ''You learn from your mistakes. Our concentration at the Dwyer was to get it fixed and make it available to community groups to have meetings, put on plays and readings and to help cultural institutions.''
Usually open to the public Monday through Saturday, and often on Sunday, the Dwyer was closed most days this summer. In September only five performances are scheduled, at least a 50 percent drop in usual programming, said Barabara Horowitz, the founder and president of Community Works, a nonprofit arts and education organization that provides the Dwyer's programs.
Community Works has brought in its own staff and relied on volunteers to keep the center running. Ms. Horowitz said that she was still committed to the Dwyer and its mission, but that she had formed new partnerships and moved programs to other places, beginning with an exhibition about Harlem next month at the Interchurch Center at 120th Street and Riverside Drive.
''Hopefully, a plan will emerge to maintain the space to continue to celebrate this amazing community,'' she said. ''I.C.A. wants us here as long as the Dwyer is open, even in a limited way. As of this moment, I truly believe that we will be here in some way, the Dwyer will persevere. We are very proud of what we have accomplished.''
International Communications Association executives have pledged to keep the Dwyer going. As part of the Dwyer's restructuring efforts, its building staff was let go, and contracts with consultants, contractors and vendors were terminated at the end of May. Mr. Rivers said he was negotiating with potential tenants, was considering collaborations with other arts groups and had plans to expand the 3-member board to 10, adding marketing and finance expertise.
If the restructuring doesn't succeed, the programs at the Dwyer will be missed. ''We're asking, how do we save the center?'' said Paola Bulloch, who works with disabled adults and often came to the Dwyer for the jazz. ''People would pay more money, gladly.''
Loretta Abbott, a dancer and choreographer who gave swing-dance lessons that recent Saturday, worried that if the Dwyer closed, ''a lot of our background and history'' would be lost too. The center, she said, had programs that managed to be both informative and fun and supported artists too.
The Dwyer is not the only Harlem cultural institution to struggle in recent years. In April 2010 the Harlem School of the Arts closed its doors for three weeks because of financial problems, but has since reopened with a new executive director. The National Black Theater, which spent years facing financial disputes that endangered its future, resolved its problems in June. The Classical Theater of Harlem had its first full-scale production last August after nearly two years, since its founders departed after friction with the board.
Khalil Muhammad, the director of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, theorized that Harlem residents with money had an appetite for black culture but went to Downtown and Midtown Manhattan to feed it.
''The cultural landscape has not shifted the way residential patterns have,'' Mr. Muhammad said of the changing neighborhood. ''There is not the same proprietorship. It's just very expensive to run institutions in Harlem to meet the demands of people passionate about African-American arts and culture.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clyde Wilder leading a rare dance program in July at the struggling Dwyer Cultural Center in Harlem.(C1)
 Loretta Abbott, right, leading a swing-dance workshop at the Dwyer Cultural Center in Harlem. The center has had to cut back its programming because of financial difficulties. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JULIE GLASSBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TAX LAW (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); JAZZ & BLUES (76%); WRITERS (76%); THEATER & DRAMA (76%); THEATER (76%); CREATIVE WRITING (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); VISUAL ARTS (71%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); RETAIL PROPERTY (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); BOWLING CENTERS (60%); BOWLING (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); CITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS ASSOCIATION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012



370 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: Imports Cost Less in July As Oil Prices Edged Down

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Import prices fell unexpectedly in July for the fourth consecutive month as costs declined for imported oil, industrial supplies and even many consumer goods, the Labor Department said on Friday, further reducing inflation pressures.Overall import prices dropped 0.6 percent last month, the agency said. They have risen only once in the last eight months. 
Analysts expected import prices to rise 0.1 percent in July, and the decline could give the Federal Reserve more flexibility to ease monetary policy if policy makers thought the economy needed it.
Still, an increase in the rate of hiring in July has led some economists to question whether the Fed is ready for a new round of bond purchases, a strategy known as quantitative easing.
Even with import prices sagging, ''people are still going to wonder whether the Fed will embark into another round of quantitative easing,'' said Robbert Van Batenburg, head of equity research at Louis Capital Markets in New York.
Despite the downward trend in prices, analysts pointed out that much of the decline had resulted from a decrease in the cost of oil.
''At the core level, declines in prices are unlikely to be significantly felt at the consumer level,'' said Peter Newland, an economist with Barclays Capital in New York.
Prices fell for goods and services bought from most of America's major trading partners, including China, Mexico and the European Union. That could be a sign of the recent cooling in the global economy, which has been largely caused by Europe's debt crisis.
Prices of Chinese imports dropped 0.2 percent in July, and prices for imported petroleum slipped 1.6 percent. Excluding fuel, import prices were down 0.4 percent.
Many prices for consumer goods also fell. Excluding autos, prices for consumer goods were down 0.1 percent.
The Labor Department report also showed that export prices rose 0.5 percent last month. Analysts had expected them to be flat.
A rise in the price of agricultural goods fueled the increase in export prices. Excluding agriculture, export prices fell 0.3 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT PRICES (94%); IMPORT TRADE (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INFLATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); TRENDS (76%); EQUITY RESEARCH (76%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); EURO CRISIS (64%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (55%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012



371 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Homelessness Rises Sharply; City Acts Fast

BYLINE: By AARON EDWARDS

 BODY:
The homeless population in New York City has jumped sharply over the last year, causing a record number of people to enter the shelter system. The increase has forced the Bloomberg administration to open nine more shelters in just the last two months -- sometimes with only a few weeks' notice to surrounding neighborhoods.The administration said the increase stemmed in part from the end of the city's main rent-subsidy program for homeless families. But the new shelters -- five in the Bronx, two in Manhattan and two in Brooklyn -- have provoked criticism from local officials who say they were blindsided by the decisions to open them.
The city, for example, relied upon its emergency authority to turn two residential buildings on 95th Street on the Upper West Side of Manhattan into shelters that will eventually house about 200 adult couples, officials said. The buildings had recently been used as illegal hotels before they were shut down, and they still have some long-term tenants.
The city's Department of Homeless Services told the community board about its plan in mid-July, only two weeks before people began moving in. 
The commissioner of homeless services, Seth Diamond, said in an interview that the city had no choice but to open the shelters, given the demand. The city recorded 43,731 homeless people (25,475 adults and 18,256 children) in the shelter system this week, up 18 percent from the 37,143 (21,807 adults and 15,336 children) a year ago, officials said. ''We do have to move quickly, and we have to always make sure that we have enough capacity,'' Mr. Diamond said. ''The one thing we cannot do is have families come in and not have a place for them.''
Mr. Diamond said he did not believe that his department had deceived neighborhoods by opening shelters with little notice, saying the process for picking the sites had been done ''always with community communication.''
The administration is not legally obligated to get the approval of community boards before opening shelters, but its policy requires it to tell them of its plans ahead of time.
Of the nine new shelters, the city opened three, including the two in Manhattan, under its emergency authority, giving little notice before proceeding. Several of the other shelters were opened under normal practices but officials had moved quickly. The city told a community board in the Bronx this week that a 50-unit homeless shelter would open within days.
By law, the city is obligated to supply shelter to people who have nowhere else to go, though there are limits to how long they can stay.
The current shelter census is the highest ever, officials said; the number does not represent the total homeless population in the city, because some people avoid the shelter system.
Local officials and neighborhood leaders acknowledged the need for the shelters, but said the Bloomberg administration had moved too abruptly.
Several elected officials sponsored a protest this week in front of the 95th Street buildings, which are side by side between West End Avenue and Riverside Drive. The buildings are privately owned, and the city is paying roughly $3,300 a unit a month, with two or three people living in each unit.
Manhattan's borough president, Scott M. Stringer, said, ''This is no way to meet the needs of vulnerable citizens in this city by simply packing in hundreds and hundreds of people in the dead of night without a long-range plan.''
Asked what the alternative should be, Mr. Stringer, a Democrat who is likely to run for mayor next year, said, ''Well, that is the conundrum.'' He added: ''You still need to come to various constituencies to support a long-term policy to meet a need that is expanding. It's easy to throw 400 people in a community without doing your homework.''
Other community leaders said they feared that the administration was rushing to find beds for homeless people without first ensuring that there were adequate social services for them. If not properly supervised, they said, the shelters can become rife with drugs and crime.
''It isn't because we don't want them in our backyard,'' said Mark N. Diller, who is chairman of Community Board 7 on the Upper West Side. ''It's that we don't want a failure in our backyard.''
A 10-year resident of one of the buildings, Masako Koga, 48, said she noticed new security guards on Monday and was then informed for the first time that homeless people would soon be moving in. ''There are so many vacant rooms, though, so I knew it would be coming soon,'' Ms. Koga said.
Patrick Markee, a senior policy analyst with the Coalition for the Homeless, said a weak economy and rising housing costs were major factors underlying the rise in homelessness, particularly for black and Hispanic families.
''We're facing the prospect of more and more shelters opening in the city,'' Mr. Markee said, ''and that creates bad incentives for landlords to push out low-income tenants in favor of doing deals with D.H.S.''
There are 228 homeless shelters in the city, up from 211 in June 2010. A vast majority of them are privately run and financed by the Department of Homeless Services.
The Bloomberg administration acknowledged that the end of Advantage, which was the city's signature program to combat homelessness, had played a significant role in the increase in homelessness. The program gave subsidies to homeless families for up to two years to help pay for their apartments if they were employed. Some families who exhausted their Advantage benefits are now back in the shelter system.
The city said last year that it was discontinuing the program because the state was dropping its financial support.
''We are in a very difficult environment with a very successful program that ended very abruptly,'' Mr. Diamond, the homeless services commissioner, said. ''At that point, we said the result would be a significant increase in the homeless population. The tragedy of losing Advantage was not just that we lost it, but that we lost it at a time when money was so tight that it was almost impossible to get it back.''
Tayna Munoz, 29, said that she had had an Advantage subsidy for two years, and that once her eligibility ended, she continued in her job as an assistant in a dentist's office. But a few months later, she lost her position, leaving her unable to afford all the rent and support her 8-year-old daughter.
Evicted from their apartment, she went to the Homelessness Department's Prevention Assistance and Temporary Housing office in the Bronx to apply for shelter.
''My plan was to get help and save to get my own apartment,'' Ms. Munoz said outside the office. ''Right now, it's not easy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: New York City turned 316 West 95th Street in Manhattan and other buildings in the Bronx and Brooklyn into shelters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (93%); FAMILY (89%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); APPROVALS (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012



372 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Exploring the Planets Enriches Us at Home

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BENSON

 BODY:
NEW YORK -- NASA's newest marvel, a one-ton rover named Curiosity, has been set down with all the delicacy of a carton of eggs on the surface of Mars. The perfect landing came after a complex series of automated maneuvers that had been tagged the ''seven minutes of terror,'' but that in the end were executed so flawlessly as to render the mission's Earthly handlers speechless with relief. There wasn't even a single error to report.On such evidence it could easily seem that planetary exploration is in the full bloom of vigorous good health under American leadership, thank you very much. There's little doubt that during the last decade the genre of robotic space exploration has reached an apex of achievement.
Unfortunately, an apex already implies a fall, and the Obama administration's proposed NASA budget for 2013 seemingly wants to make that fall as immediate as possible, chopping $300 million from the agency's planetary science division -- a whopping 20 percent cut from 2012. 
If such an evisceration is allowed to stand, the most cost-effective and successful division of NASA -- the very part of the agency that is actually exploring space with relatively economical robots, rather than flying astronauts expensively in the endless circularity of low Earth orbit -- will be reduced to a ghost of its former self. Curiosity could well be a swan song: NASA's final flagship interplanetary mission.
Such cuts will also assure the demise of a fully elaborated and streamlined national infrastructure, one that knits together engineering talent, scientific expertise, technological innovation, spaceflight management, and communications systems that span the entire Solar System. This apparatus took five decades to build and constitutes one of the great achievements of our time. If it is allowed to come crashing down, it will be virtually impossible to replace.
Just to be clear, these are the people and institutions that have produced some of the most cost-effective and powerful technologies ever conceived by the United States. Over the last five decades, NASA Planetary Science Division Voyagers and Vikings, its Magellan Venus radar mapper and Galileo Jupiter mission, its still-active Cassini Saturn orbiter and its ridiculously hardy Mars rovers Spirit and Opportunity have opened up the entire Solar System to human eyes. Brought to us in scrupulous detail, a dazzling series of worlds and their moons have enlarged our collective sense of our location within space and time.
But let's set aside the glories of discovery for the moment and look at space exploration's realpolitik. What do we get out of it, in concrete terms?
To begin with, the money spent to achieve the exploration of the Moon, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn is money spent on Earth, not anywhere else. It powers innovative companies and develops technologies that inevitably -- and demonstrably -- benefit our economy and our national prospects.
If we go back all the way to the Apollo era, we'll soon see that it's no accident that each of us has the equivalent of a flawlessly miniaturized Mission Control on our digital desktops, with rows of icons standing in for Houston's rows of technicians seated at telemetry monitors, and each icon signifying a software application ready to do our bidding at a click.
Our sublimely networked information-based civilization would have been inconceivable without the immense number of technological innovations spurred by NASA's push to land on the Moon. There would've been no Apple without Apollo.
And this fruitful spillover of software and hardware innovation has cascaded forth from NASA programs ever since, irrigating Silicon Valley, among other places. Remarkably, even near-failures by the space agency have resulted in positive spin-off technologies that in turn have led directly to meaningful, tangible civilian applications capable of propelling economic progress.
For example, the failure of NASA's Galileo orbiter to open its crucial high-gain antenna while en-route to Jupiter in 1990 resulted in a NASA-wide crash program intended to rescue the mission. The problem was that the spacecraft's underpowered omni-directional antenna, which had been intended for use only while Galileo was near Earth, was now the only way to receive data from a spacecraft more than 576 million miles away -- the greatest distance of Jupiter from Earth. And that antenna only had the feeble power of a 20 watt bulb, radiating energy wastefully in every direction.
Undeterred, NASA engineers devised an ingenious series of IT fixes, many of which involved developing or refining techniques for compressing and transmitting data through the keyhole of that impossibly faint signal. The result is that to this day, every time you send large documents across the Internet, or for that matter attach feather-light JPEG pictures to an e-mail and send them to a friend, you're directly benefiting from NASA research triggered by Galileo's antenna failure. (Meanwhile the mission itself was transformed from certain failure to remarkable success.)
Many other wholly pragmatic reasons exist to pursue a vigorous program of interplanetary space exploration. These range from the utility of understanding the climatological stories of our neighboring terrestrial planets Venus and Mars (one of which swelters under a runaway greenhouse effect enforced by its dense atmosphere, with the other being a frigid desert world), to the usefulness of investigating the geology of near-Earth asteroids, and thus how they could potentially best be deflected from Earth-intersecting, and potentially civilization-ending, trajectories.
Finally it bears repeating that in its entirety, meaning including human spaceflight and all its other divisions, NASA costs less than half of one percent of the federal budget -- a fraction of a penny on every tax dollar.
Given the steady stream of high tech innovations that has streamed forth from the agency for decades, enriching our lives and bolstering our economy, the successful landing of the Curiosity rover on Mars should be an occasion not just to celebrate an astonishingly cool civilizational achievement, but also to renew our national commitment to the peaceful exploration of outer space.
We can start by restoring funding to the agency's prodigiously dynamic and successful interplanetary explorations.
Michael Benson is the author of ''Beyond: Visions of the Interplanetary Probes'' and ''Far Out: A Space-Time Chronicle.'' His new book of Solar System landscape photography, ''Planetfall,'' will be published in October.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (91%); SPACE EXPLORATION (91%); ROBOTICS (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (89%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (89%); SPACE INDUSTRY (88%); BUDGETS (73%); ENGINEERING (72%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (63%)

COMPANY: GEOPHARMA INC (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARS (94%); JUPITER (92%); EARTH (92%); SATURN (92%); VENUS (79%); EARTH'S MOON (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012



373 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Signaling a Stalling Economy, China's Export Growth Is Almost at a Standstill

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- Signs that the Chinese economy is sputtering mounted Friday, in the form of dismally feeble trade data that fanned expectations that Beijing would soon step up its efforts to buttress growth before a key leadership transition this autumn.China's giant economy has emerged as a key driver of global growth, and hopes are high that rising affluence, urbanization and development will help mitigate the weakness of the European and U.S. economies.
The turmoil in Europe and the anemic pace of economic growth in the United States have, however, increasingly dragged down exports from China and other export-oriented countries in Asia, prompting rate cuts and other economy-bolstering steps from governments across the region in recent months. More steps are likely to follow. 
Data released Friday showed that the growth in overseas shipments from China had ground to a near halt in July, with exports up just 1 percent from the same month a year earlier, far below expectations and well beneath the 11.3 percent in June.
Imports, too, disappointed, with an increase of 4.7 percent, underscoring that domestic demand had not been buoyed as much as hoped by efforts to foster bank lending and infrastructure work.
On Thursday, other government numbers painted a similarly disappointing picture: Industrial production, retail sales and fixed-asset investment all grew less rapidly than economists had projected.
''Things really aren't going China's way,'' Alistair Thornton, an economist at IHS Global Insight in Beijing, said in a note. ''Those looking for signs of resilience in China's economic data were merely disappointed yesterday, but they are going to be distraught today.''
Combined, the July data show that Beijing's efforts to shore up growth in the face of the global downturn have so far proved insufficient, and that a much-anticipated growth pickup is unlikely to materialize for another few months.
The central bank cut interest rates twice in quick succession in June and July, and has also progressively lowered the reserve requirement ratio for banks, freeing up more cash for lenders to extend as credit. Central bank data released Friday, however, indicated that those moves had not translated into as much new lending as hoped.
Chinese banks extended 540.1 billion renminbi, or $85.86 billion, of new local-currency loans in July. The amount was larger than during the same month last year, but fell short of the roughly 700 billion renminbi analysts had expected.
''There cannot be a sufficient infrastructure spending boost without stronger lending, and we expect Beijing to push banks to extend more credit,'' said Dariusz Kowalczyk, an economist at Crdit Agricole in Hong Kong.
''Demand is still there, and the economy is still growing at between 7 and 8 percent; it is not heading for a hard landing,'' he said.
But, he added, the poor external demand and softer domestic demand are likely to prompt Beijing ''to roll out additional policy measures to turn the economy around.''
At the same time, lower inflation, which dropped to less than 2 percent in July, has given the authorities more leeway to act now. Moreover, the leadership transition this year could provide extra impetus to step on the accelerator sooner rather than later.
''It's important for the political transition to take place in an environment of growth,'' Mr. Kowalczyk said. ''They will want to do more to make the economy feel better; they have that time pressure breathing down their necks, and it is logical for them to use more levers to move the economy.''
As a result, many analysts believe a further cut to the reserve ratio for banks is imminent; some also believe the central bank may lower interest rates, too, in a bid to ignite more growth.
More spending and a push to bolster infrastructure spending are also likely.
On Friday, the central bank set its benchmark daily reference rate for the renminbi at 6.3447 to the U.S. dollar, its weakest level since late November.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); URBANIZATION (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); SHIPMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); BANKING IN CHINA (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (68%); RETAIL SALES (51%)

COMPANY: CREDIT AGRICOLE SA (50%)

TICKER: ACA (PAR) (50%); ACA (BIT) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012



374 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SHORTCUTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: Laid Off More Than Once, And Seeking a Career

BYLINE: By ALINA TUGEND

 BODY:
FRIENDS of ours recently moved from the New York City area to Utah after 12 years in the Northeast. They planned to return one day to Utah, where they had grown up and where family and friends still lived. But not so soon and not like this.My friend graduated in 2000 from the Stern School of Business at New York University and quickly landed a job as an equity trader.
But then he was caught in the wheels of a merger in early 2009 and laid off with hundreds of his colleagues. It was a terrible time to look for work, as we all remember, and it wasn't until a year and a half later that he landed another job as a trader.
Six months later, he was laid off again as part of a global restructuring of his new company. 
My friend, who asked that I use his middle name, Dean, because he is still looking for work, is, unfortunately, like so many people these days -- facing not one, but two layoffs as his profession shifts and shudders around him.
''The first time, it's easier when it's merger-related -- it doesn't feel as personal,'' Dean told me. ''But when you're one of two guys being laid off, you think, 'Why me?' I start thinking, 'How can I be the one guy with a good degree who is going to be chronically unemployed?' ''
After hanging on another year and a half, Dean and his family decided that for financial reasons they had to move back to Utah and regroup. He is still looking for a job in the same field, but hopes his master's degree and 10 years of experience on Wall Street ''will stand out a lot more here.''
It's hard enough to deal with one layoff. But when another one happens -- and then perhaps yet another -- it's awfully hard to pick yourself up and shake yourself off. And that is especially true if it's a sign that your profession is shrinking and there may not be room for you in it anymore.
Another friend, Lucia, who also asked that her middle name be used because she is looking for another position, first lost her job when a magazine where she worked as an editor closed in 2007. She did full-time freelancing for about a year, until she was hired by another major magazine.
Then, ''in 2010, 40 percent of the staff was laid off,'' Lucia said, and she found herself in the job market again.
''I started thinking that I was not going to be able to stay in journalism,'' she said. She eventually found another magazine job, but isn't thrilled with it.
For Lucia, it's not just the lack of jobs, but the way the profession has shrunk and changed that makes her question her place in it.
''Should I look at nonprofits?'' she asked. ''Should I go to school to train as a teacher? I wouldn't be able to stop working and go to school. I couldn't afford it.''
Cheryl Heisler, president and founder of Lawternatives, which provides career counseling for lawyers exploring transitions to other fields, said: ''There's an emotional as well as a financial toll with multiple layoffs, even if it has nothing to do with you personally. I've seen people in outplacement who are kind of shellshocked. Each time, they have to rebuild.''
Ms. Heisler said she began her business in 1995, and ''when I first started, I was only seeing lawyers frustrated with the practice and wanting to leave. Now I see lawyers who would love to have a job in the legal profession, but it's not in the cards'' because there are no positions available.
Of course, being forced to make a change is not always a bad thing. Shane Fischer, a lawyer in Florida, graduated in 2001 and was let go from two different firms because of lack of available work.
''I was disillusioned, frustrated,'' Mr. Fischer said. ''I figured I could either spend several more months looking for a job and get fired on a whim or I could start my own firm and not worry about getting fired.''
So that's what he did. For the last five years, he has been a sole practitioner doing general litigation with an emphasis on criminal defense.
''It's a struggle but at the end of the day, when I work hard, I know I'm working hard for me and I don't have to justify why I didn't bring in 10 percent more to a senior partner,'' he said. ''I'm actually grateful those old employers let me go.''
Mr. Fischer did what career counselors and others say needs to be done: look at alternatives and, find ways turn around a bad situation.
Jeff Conte, an associate professor of psychology at San Diego State University, and co-author of ''Work in the 21st Century'' (Wiley-Blackwell, 2010), said there had been little, if any, research on the issue of multiple layoffs and the negative effects.
But much of what applies to those who have been fired once would be true for those facing the situation a second or third time. It may sound simplistic, but keeping structure to one's day, staying active, having social support and keeping healthy are crucial, Professor Conte said.
''That can separate out people who are successful at finding jobs from those who are not,'' he said.
On the practical side, when you are job hunting, it is best to address the reality of multiple layoffs upfront, said Jim Camp, author of ''Start with No: The Negotiating Tools That the Pros Don't Want You to Know'' (Crown Business, 2002).
''I'd say, 'Before we even begin, I've been laid off four times in the last five years through no fault of my own. If this is a problem, let me know and we'll talk about it,' '' Mr. Camp said.
Ms. Heisler also recommended ways to make your rsum look less like a series of job hops by grouping similar jobs under headings rather than listing them chronologically.
''If you had three stints in retail, put them all together under retail experience,'' she said. ''It adds heft to the experience you've had.''
But what if you have decided it's time to move out of your current profession altogether? The first step, Professor Conte said, is to parse out the skills that can be transferable to other fields.
Ms. Heisler agreed. A good lawyer, for example, knows how to communicate, meet deadlines, write and negotiate -- skills that can be useful in numerous other fields.
A particularly useful resource is O*NET OnLine, developed under the sponsorship of the Department of Labor's Employment and Training Administration, Professor Conte said.
''On O*NET, you can see jobs or professions with similar skills to yours and can see where jobs and professions are growing or predicted to grow,'' he said.
Another helpful tool, he added, is the Occupational Outlook Handbook, published every two years by the Department of Labor Statistics, which predicts which fields will expand and which will contract. And within a given field, it describes the different sorts of jobs and typical salaries.
Doing this kind of research not only can help you decide which careers to pursue, but also makes you feel emotionally better because you are doing something, Professor Conte said, not just sitting on the couch watching infomercials.
Staying optimistic, as much as possible, may seem impossible on some days, but it's necessary, Mr. Camp added. ''You need to think, What can I do differently on the positive side? Otherwise, it's easy to stay locked in a world of defeat.''
E-mail: shortcuts@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shane Fischer, a lawyer in Florida, was let go from two different firms. He said he started his own firm so he could avoid getting fired. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY BOGDON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); DISMISSALS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); JOURNALISM (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012



375 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Water Damage

BYLINE: By MARTHA SOUTHGATE. 
Martha Southgate is the author, most recently, of the novel ''The Taste of Salt.''

 BODY:
CULLEN JONES and Lia Neal were among the many swimmers to win medals for the United States in this year's Olympic Games. But their inspiring performances obscure a disturbing truth. Not only are they, as African-Americans, anomalies in the elite levels of their sport, but enormous numbers of African-Americans do not have even rudimentary swimming skills, a lack that costs lives.A 2010 study by the USA Swimming Foundation and the University of Memphis reported that nearly 70 percent of African-American children do not know how to swim. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, African-American children between the ages of 5 and 14 are almost three times more likely to drown than white children. 
Cullen Jones could have been one of them; his parents put him in swim class after he almost drowned at the age of 5. Jones has become an evangelist for the importance of swimming lessons, working with Make a Splash, a water-safety initiative focused on minority children. But it can be tough even to give swimming lessons away. Starting last fall, the Boys and Girls Clubs of Boston made swimming lessons mandatory for their members, who are predominantly black and Hispanic. Though the lessons were free of charge, a number of parents had to be talked into allowing their children to participate: they were terrified of letting them get in the water.
This bears out the USA Swimming Foundation's finding, in its 2010 report, that ''fear trumped financial concerns across all respondent race groups in low-income families.''
Regardless of race, the poor lack access to pools and swimming lessons. Around 40 percent of white children and 60 percent of Hispanic children do not know how to swim -- they, too, could benefit from free or affordable lessons. But why is the problem worse among African-Americans, many of whom, across all economic classes, lack confidence in the water? A large part of that unease is a legacy of slavery and segregation.
It has been documented that before slavery, many West Africans could and did swim. But a slave who could swim was a slave with another means of escape, so slave owners went to great lengths to make it impossible to keep this skill alive.
Later, segregation took its ugly toll at public beaches and pools. According to the historian Jeff Wiltse in an NPR interview, ''whites set up, essentially, sentinel guards at the entrance to the pool, and when black swimmers tried to come in and access them, they were beaten up, sometimes with clubs.'' One white motel manager was caught on camera pouring acid into a pool in which blacks were staging a ''swim-in.'' Institutionalized racism was shored up by specious scholarship, like a 1969 report titled ''The Negro and Learning to Swim: The Buoyancy Problem Related to Reported Biological Difference.''
Sadly, the fear of water that was instilled in African-Americans back then has become self-perpetuating. ''Don't you know blacks don't swim?'' Jones remembers being told by members of his family. It's time to bury that stereotype at sea. As of 2010, 15 European countries had made swimming a compulsory part of their education curriculums. Ideally, the United States would do the same. Not likely, I know, when even dry land physical education programs are being slashed. But we can and should do better.
This country is blessed with a network of community centers like the Y.M.C.A. and the Boys and Girls Clubs that have swimming programs, instructors and pools in place. These centers could take Boston's example and make swimming lessons mandatory, which would benefit their clientele, regardless of its racial makeup. Public schools (and particularly charter schools, many of which have extended their school years into summer's heat) could devote part of each summer to shuttling their students to swim programs.
Another model is the public-private partnership, like Horizons National, an academic summer program that partners low-income schools with independent schools and colleges that have access to swimming pools. Here's a quote (posted on the program's Web site) from one participant: ''When I started Horizons I was so afraid of the water that I would not even go in the shallow end. Learning how to swim and overcoming that fear helped me realize that I could do anything.'' Who said this? Algernon Kelley, who now has a Ph.D. in chemistry and lectured at Xavier University of Louisiana.
The best way to eliminate the culture of anxiety around swimming is to create thousands of little African-American swimmers who are not afraid. I was one of those swimmers -- never elite but always joyous. My parents packed me and my siblings off to the pool at our local community center as soon as we were old enough, and I became the kind of kid who would get out of the water only when my lips were blue. How wonderful if more children could feel the joy and confidence I feel when I'm swimming -- and be safer around the water, too.
The United States faces immense problems of all kinds, many of which are more pressing than teaching children to swim. But for a mother who stands screaming on the shore as her child goes under for the last time, not knowing how to swim is the biggest problem there is.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PING ZHU)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (92%); SWIMMING (91%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); SLAVERY (89%); OLYMPICS (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (76%); POOR POPULATION (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); FAMILY (75%); BEACHES (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); HISTORY (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES SWIMMING INC (83%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012



376 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: For Sale by Owner, a Multimillion-Dollar Mountain Estate

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
THE real estate market has started to rebound, but it has been a rough five years. Many people have been forced to hang on to homes they no longer want or can afford. Desperation has crept in.This was what I thought when I was contacted in early May by the assistant for a man named Bob Fisher. Mr. Fisher wanted to meet to talk about a property he was selling. I had no idea who he was and figured he just wanted free publicity.
But I took a look at his Web site for the property, Sagee Manor, and was drawn in. Sagee Manor is a full-blown estate -- a 10,000-square-foot mansion with a 2,500-square-foot guesthouse sitting on a mountain top in Highlands, N.C., a resort town. It is surrounded by professionally designed gardens. The asking price was $18 million to $25 million, depending on how many acres the buyer wanted.
There are many oversize homes lingering on the market from the boom years. What intrigued me was that Mr. Fisher was selling it himself. Moreover, he made a point of saying he had refused to list it with a broker and would sell it by August. 
I passed on the meeting. But a few weeks later, Mr. Fisher's sales tour brought him back to New York, and I met him for coffee.
He told me a bit about himself. He graduated from the University of Virginia and Yale Law School, where his classmates included Bill Clinton. He practiced law in Atlanta but began investing in businesses along the way, including investments in the wireless spectrum for two-way radios, which was sold to a company that merged with Nextel, and in a company that owned 300 cellular towers in Atlanta and was sold to American Tower. Mr. Fisher said he and a partner sold both companies ''substantially for stock.'' Though he wouldn't disclose how many shares each got, he did say, ''We both did very well.''
By his 40s, he had retired and bought the land that would become Sagee Manor. He said he paid $4 million for the 50 acres in 1999. Then he set about building on a grand scale. ''We wanted architecture that had a sense of taste, but that was classic and not trendy,'' Mr. Fisher, now 63, said. ''We didn't want it to be obsolete in 300 years because it was dated.''
In 2005, he and his wife moved in, spending six months a year there. They named it after a road that led up the mountain. So why, I wanted to know, after living there for such a short time, was he looking to sell?
Mr. Fisher said he came out of retirement in 2009 to revive a family business, Wesley International, which makes a forkliftlike machine called the pallet mule. He thought this would be temporary, but it became a full-time job. At the same time, he said, his stock in Nextel and American Tower wasn't worth what it had been in 1999.
So in February of this year, he decided it was time to sell.
One reason he decided to do it himself was that he had listed two log cabins in another part of Highlands for $2.2 million with two local brokers and had not received an offer in two years.
The other reason is unique to the very wealthy: he had been successful in business and figured those skills would translate to selling Sagee Manor.
''I saw my real estate agents dribble out a little bit of advertising for two years,'' he said. ''What I saw in the auction model made more sense to me. It was a Colin Powell overwhelming force approach.''
Yet he didn't want to auction off his mansion. ''I sensed it takes a lot of the romance out of the sale,'' he said. ''It also has negative connotations with financial distress.''
Mr. Fisher stressed to me that he didn't need to sell Sagee Manor. He has a $2 million mortgage on it, which is small compared with the value of the estate, and the annual upkeep is $350,000, which he said he considered manageable. But he also owns two other homes, in Atlanta and Sea Island, Ga., where he lives, as well as the unsold log cabins. So he has a lot of real estate he isn't using.
''The indications are at this point there will be multiple buyers,'' he told me in May. ''We've got a lot of interest coming up. It's proof of concept.''
Was he too optimistic? There is little sales data on this rarefied market. Lawrence Yun, chief economist for the National Association of Realtors, said sales had picked up in the past year for homes over $1 million -- but Sagee Manor is in a different category.
''You have to find a one-of-a-kind buyer, which is not necessarily the easiest thing to do,'' Mr. Yun said.
Elizabeth Salzarulo, owner of Harry Norman Realtors in Highlands, sent me listings for only four homes in the area priced over $5 million. There are 160 homes listed for $1.5 million to $5 million.
When I checked back with Mr. Fisher in July, his strategy had stalled. ''Whenever you're involved in something like this, it's amazing to see how nave you were,'' he said. He said he had spent over $270,000 on newspaper ads, including in The New York Times, and had been paying $500 to $1,000 a day for a Google service to get his Web site ranked high. He also has two full-time employees and three part-time workers trying to sell the property.
But he hasn't given up. He has started sending out personalized photo books to 500 wealthy people he has identified as top prospects, at a cost of $50 a book.
But I was most intrigued by his effort to create a network of people connected to wealthy people, from real estate agents to hair dressers, and offer an incentive that reminded me of ''Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory.'' The golden ticket is a $250,000 finder's fee to the person who refers the eventual buyer.
''I'd be lying if I said it wasn't a factor,'' said Dennis Gadbois, owner of Preston Gym in Dallas. ''Bob has done all the legwork. All I have to do is direct people to him.''
George Elliott, who owns a hair salon in Palm Beach, Fla., said that he was used to helping out local brokers but that most of them were legally constrained in how they could reward him. He said he would try to help Mr. Fisher but wasn't sure that Highlands was right for the New York-Palm Beach set.
''It's tough to fly a plane in there, and it's tough to land a helicopter,'' he said.
Mr. Fisher is admired in Highlands for leading the capital campaign that built the Bascom art center. But several people expressed doubt about his strategy.
One, who described himself as a friend, pointed out that having 130 people in his network did not mean Mr. Fisher had 130 people working to sell his estate. ''It's like having five people watch a car wreck, and no one is calling the police because it's not their problem,'' the friend said.
Mr. Fisher's approach is also the subject of some talk in this close-knit Southern community, which has just 3,000 year-round residents. ''Everyone in town is thinking, What compelled him to do this?'' the friend said. ''Other people are offended because he wants to take advantage of our networks. 'I want to call your billionaire friends.' Maybe he's learned something from this, but I really think he's just spent a lot of money.''
Even people who are helping him say they were initially taken aback. ''I didn't think he was a real person until I looked him up on the Internet,'' said Randall Mize, director of aircraft management at Starbase Aviation in Dallas.
But they met a month ago when Mr. Fisher rented a car to drive to Dallas from Houston. Mr. Mize said he liked him and shared his database of private jet owners.
While it looks as if Mr. Fisher's August deadline will pass without success, he is not giving up. When I talked to him this week, he said seven qualified buyers had visited since June, but none made an offer.
''I used a lot of the skills I used in my past successes,'' he said. ''I don't know how it's going to turn out. I have confidence in it. But I want to be careful.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bob Fisher at Sagee Manor in Highlands, N.C. He is trying to sell the 50-acre estate, which he bought in 1999, but he has had no luck finding a buyer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN W. ADKISSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); FAMILY COMPANIES (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); GARDENING (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012



377 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: Home Buying Still Appeals

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
Still AppealsEven the deepest housing crisis since the Great Depression wasn't enough to dampen Americans' desire to own their homes.
A recent study by Fannie Mae, which analyzed Fannie's monthly housing survey data for all of 2011, found that homeownership still appealed to a majority of Americans: 85 percent said owning made more sense than renting over the long term, and 64 percent of those polled said that they would buy a home if they were going to move. 
The research also tried to answer what influences consumers' current homeownership status and what would motivate people to buy or rent in the future.
The study found that once consumers bought a home, got a mortgage and had a positive experience owning, they wanted to continue to own. But concern about affordability -- both for the home purchase and upkeep -- was a major factor that discouraged renters from taking the plunge. The researchers also found that exposure to default, perceived appreciation or depreciation in home value, and self-reported underwater status -- having a mortgage exceeding a home's value -- had only a minimal effect on predicting whether a consumer intended to buy or rent for their next move. TARA SIEGEL BERNARD
COMMENTS As a homeowner, landlord and tenant all the same time, I can tell you the one thing that influences these decisions more than anything else. Stability. Stable job, stable income, stable family life -- it only makes sense to own a home and commit to long-term indebtedness when you feel this sense of stability. If the trend in the job market continues, away from long-term job stability toward a more dynamic, flexible work force, the question for home buyers will be, ''How confident am I that I can find another job should I need to?'' Given current economic conditions, answer: Not very. Expect the house buying slump to continue and rental markets to soar while those conditions continue to exist. -- Jonathan, Lincoln
After renting an apartment for many years, we decided to look to buy in 2011 to take advantage of low interest rates. But after a long search, we came to the same conclusion we had years before: it just doesn't make financial sense. No matter how we crunch the numbers, our current apartment is less expensive than a house and it gives us more liquidity, flexibility (who knows when we might lose a job and need to move) ... and a lot more free time then our friends and family who own. -- kt, Ohio

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); FAMILY (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); TRENDS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); LABOR FORCE (72%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (69%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (64%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2012



378 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: Drought Forces Reductions in Crop Forecasts

BYLINE: By RON NIXON and ANNIE LOWREY; Reporting was contributed by Adam Nossiter in Dakar, Senegal; Rick Gladstone in New York; and John Eligon in Kansas City, Mo.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With the nation's worst drought in a half-century continuing to decimate crops, the government on Friday slashed its estimate of the soybean yield, made only a month ago, to the lowest level since 2003 and its estimate of the corn yield to the lowest level since 1995.The smaller harvests will drive up prices for food and animal feed, analysts said. The prospects are also increasing pressure on the Obama administration to divert less corn to the production of the biofuel ethanol.
Agriculture Secretary Thomas J. Vilsack, visiting drought-stricken farmers in Nebraska on Friday, said that despite the reduced crop production, farmers are in better shape today than during the last major drought, in 1988.
''Last time only 25 percent of farmers had crop insurance, but this time over 85 percent are covered,'' Mr. Vilsack said, noting that the government was still forecasting the eighth-biggest corn harvest ever. 
But analysts warned of falling yields and spiking wholesale prices down the road. ''It's scary when you see the numbers out today,'' said Terry Roggensack, an analyst at the Hightower Report in Chicago. ''Unless there is normal weather and rain from here on out, I can easily see prices for corn and soybeans'' rising 20 percent to 25 percent.
In the past month, as the country recorded the hottest month on record, the government lowered its production forecast for eggs, milk and pork. Beef production is expected to rise as ranchers cull more of their herds because of higher feed prices. But experts predict that the price of beef will not rise until next year as supplies tighten but feed costs continue to increase.
Last month, the Agriculture Department estimated that food prices would climb 3 percent to 4 percent in 2013. The overall economic effect in the United States, however, will be muted, given that American households generally spend only about 13 percent of their budgets on food and often elect to buy cheaper foods rather than pay higher prices.
On Friday, Capital Economics estimated that the rising food prices might knock 0.1 percent off the annual pace of economic growth.
Farmers in the hardest hit areas of the Midwest said that Friday's report only confirmed what they already knew.
''We've lost 60 percent of our average production, if not 70,'' said Nick Guetterman, president of the Johnson County Farm Bureau in eastern Kansas, who farms about 10,000 acres with his family. Mr. Guetterman said he expected crop insurance to cover his costs this year, but not much more. ''You take what you get, that's all you can do,'' he said. ''You go to church and pray.''
The Agriculture Department's report has also renewed debate over the use of corn for ethanol production.
The Renewable Fuel Standard, passed in 2005 and expanded in 2007, requires that 13.2 billion gallons of corn-based biofuel be produced in 2012. The goal of the standard is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the nation's dependence on foreign oil.
About 40 percent of the nation's corn crop now goes to ethanol producers -- the rest to animal feed, food and exports.
Retailers said that they did not expect to have to pass along price increases to customers in the short term.
''The drought has had an impact on commodity costs everywhere,'' said John Simley, a spokesman for Kraft Foods, the maker of a range of baked goods and meat products. ''It's not likely to impact our costs in the near term, because of our commodity coverage positions,'' he said, referring to the company's hedges against fluctuations in the markets.
But severe weather has hurt agricultural production in other major exporting countries, including Brazil, Russia, Australia and India, not just the United States. That has raised concerns about global shortages of certain food commodities -- shortages that will increase food prices and stoke inflation.
''The United States is the world's largest exporter of corn, soybeans and wheat, and likely price spikes will ripple through markets globally, with devastating consequences for those already struggling to get enough food to eat,'' said Eric Munoz, a senior policy analyst with Oxfam, an international aid group.
On Thursday, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization said that global food prices jumped 6 percent in July, with the price of corn up 23 percent. It has warned developing countries to prepare for possible price fluctuations.
In one impoverished region of Africa, stretching from Senegal in the west to Sudan in the east, Oxfam said that the past five years had seen a significant rise in the price of grains, making the area more vulnerable to any coming food price increases.
''There are a number of reactions,'' said Eric Hazard of Oxfam in Dakar, Senegal. ''People diminish the number of meals, and the quality of their meals. We've seen an increase in migration.''
Arif Husain, deputy chief of the Food Security Analysis Service at the United Nations World Food Program in Rome, said: ''The real problem is this is the third price shock in the last five years. The poorer countries haven't had time to recover from previous crises.''
The Agriculture Department report released on Friday forecast the corn yield to be 123.4 bushels an acre, the lowest in 17 years, down 15.5 percent from its July estimate. It also forecast the yield for soybeans, used in everything from fry oil to livestock feed, to be 36.1 bushels an acre -- down 10.7 percent, or 4.4 bushels an acre below last month's government estimate and 5.4 bushels an acre less than last year.
The new estimates are based on surveys of more than 25,000 farmers, as well as Agriculture Department experts inspecting fields for the first time since the drought began to drive up prices in mid-June.
The new crop forecast report prompted some commodity futures to rise. On the Chicago Board of Trade, soybean futures were up about 1 percent. Corn futures had already climbed on widespread expectation of a weak report. They declined on Friday, trading for about $8 a bushel, up from about $5.20 in June.
Critics of the ethanol fuel standard say the use of corn for ethanol is a major factor in the tripling in the price of corn since 2005. Livestock producers, hard hit by the rise in feed prices, have called on the Obama administration to waive the requirement until the drought is over.
''If not now, when?'' said Randy Spronk, a pork farmer in Edgerton, Minn. ''Livestock producers are getting killed out here with feed prices.''
Mr. Spronk, the incoming president of the National Pork Producers Council, said livestock producers would have to reduce their herds and flocks because feed was becoming scarce and too expensive.
With half the nation's corn crop in poor condition, 156 House members and 25 senators have signed letters to Lisa P. Jackson, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, calling on her to issue a waiver on the ethanol standard.
Even the United Nations has called on the United States to ease the use of ethanol.
In a letter published in The Financial Times on Friday, Jos Graziano da Silva, the director-general of the United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization, wrote: ''An immediate, temporary suspension of that mandate would give some respite to the market and allow more of the crop to be channeled toward food and feed uses.''
The ethanol industry said calls to waive the fuel standards were premature.
''So far we have nothing more than speculation about what the danger to the corn crop is going to be,'' said Matt Harwig, a spokesman for the Renewable Fuels Association, an ethanol industry trade group. ''We need to take a wait-and-see approach.''
Mr. Vilsack, the agriculture secretary, said in an interview taped for C-Span's ''Newsmakers'': ''We still need to get a farm bill passed to help to get some relief for livestock producers who lack a safety net. But American farmers are a resilient bunch. They will get through this.''
The report does give farmers an overview of the suffering their peers across the country are experiencing, said Bill Northey, the Iowa secretary of agriculture. That will help farmers make decisions on handling their own crops, like when to cut them and when to sell them, he said.
Mr. Northey, who farms in northwest Iowa, said the grim outlook nationwide would lead him to hold onto a lot of his crop until he sees exactly how much his yields are at harvest. If he sold too much now, he said, he would run the risk of not being able to deliver on the sales if the yield turns out lower than expected.
''We'll be figuring some of those things out,'' Mr. Northey said. ''But most of it's not going to happen until we get a combine in the field.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The new estimate of the corn yield is the lowest since 1995. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF TUTTLE/REUTERS) (A1)
A soybean field in Illinois. Soybeans, unlike corn, may still benefit if late rains should arrive. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBIN SCHOLZ/THE NEWS-GAZETTE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 A cornfield in Arkansas. Pressure is increasing to divert less corn to the production of ethanol. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANNY JOHNSTON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DROUGHT (92%); SOYBEAN FARMING (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); CORN FARMING (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); LIVESTOCK FEED (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); BIOFUELS (89%); BIOMASS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); CROP PRODUCTION (78%); CROP INSURANCE (78%); AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE (78%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CORN MARKETS (77%); WHOLESALE PRICES (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); BEEF (76%); ALCOHOLS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); MEATS (75%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (73%); ANIMAL FOODS (71%); PORK (71%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (70%); ETHANOL (70%); BUDGETS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%)

PERSON: TOM VILSACK (73%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) NEBRASKA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2012



379 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Goldman Disclosure A Rare Break in Secrecy

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - After deciding not to prosecute Goldman Sachs for its conduct during the financial crisis, the Justice Department did something rare: it publicly announced that the investigation was closed.The unusual public announcement came after Goldman's lawyers pushed for a notification that the bank would not be charged, according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity.
In a 450-word statement issued late Thursday, authorities said that "based on the law and evidence as they exist at this time, there is not a viable basis to bring a criminal prosecution." 
Many legal experts agree it would have been hard to bring charges. But the public announcement also raised eyebrows because under most circumstances criminal inquiries are shrouded in secrecy. When the Justice Department decides to end a criminal inquiry without prosecuting, it usually does not disclose that decision to the public - or even to the target of the investigation.
The Justice Department's decision rankled Wall Street critics who want banks to pay for their actions. On Friday, the senator that had requested the criminal investigation denounced Goldman.
"Whether the decision by the Department of Justice is the product of weak laws or weak enforcement, Goldman Sachs" actions were deceptive and immoral," Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat, said in a statement.
By closing its case, the Justice Department has removed the taint of a possible indictment against Goldman, which had already paid $550 million to settle a related civil matter brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission. "We believe that the Justice Department's examination has been thorough and impartial," said Andrew Williams, a Goldman Sachs spokesman.
Federal prosecutors began investigating Goldman more than a year ago after the Senate's Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations issued a blistering report highlighting questionable conduct by Goldman and other banks. It focused on Goldman's lucrative business of selling pools of subprime mortgage securities to clients while simultaneously betting on a decline in the housing market. In effect, the report concluded that Goldman had profited by betting against the very mortgage investments that it sold to clients.
It also suggested that Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman, might have misled lawmakers when testifying about the mortgage deals. Mr. Blankfein said that the bank never bet against its clients for its own profit.
As part of the report, Mr. Levin, the chairman of the subcommittee, referred Goldman's case to the Justice Department for a criminal investigation in April 2011. But after investigating Goldman for more than a year, the Justice Department decided not to bring a case.
"The department and its investigative partners conducted an exhaustive review of the report and its exhibits, independently gathered and scrutinized a large volume of other documents, and tenaciously pursued potential evidentiary leads, including conducting numerous witness interviews," the Justice Department said in its statement.
Separately, Goldman also disclosed on Thursday that the S.E.C. would not pursue any further claims against the bank related to the sale of a $1.3 billion mortgage bond deal.
On Friday, legal experts said that it was always unlikely that the government would bring a criminal prosecution against Goldman Sachs.
Ever since the 2002 indictment of Arthur Andersen caused the accounting giant to collapse and caused thousands of job losses, the government has been reluctant to bring charges against a company.
Instead, companies are now frequently offered so-called deferred prosecution agreements in which they pay a fine and agree to government oversight instead of facing criminal prosecution.
"The likelihood of the Justice Department indicting a 'too big to fail bank' like Goldman Sachs was always slim-to-none," said Stephen M. Plotnick, a securities lawyer at Carter Ledyard & Milburn. "And a major hurdle in a criminal prosecution of Goldman's executives was proving that they intended to defraud their clients."
While the decision not to charge Goldman was not surprising, the uncommon public announcement by the Justice Department raised eyebrows. Because it is illegal to disclose the existence of a grand jury investigation, under most circumstances criminal inquiries are shrouded in secrecy. And when the Justice Department decides to end a criminal inquiry without prosecuting, it usually does not disclose that decision to the public - or even to the target of the investigation.
The Goldman case, however, fit within an exception to these secrecy rules because of the immense publicity surrounding the investigation of the bank. Justice Department lawyers are permitted to comment on investigations that have leaked to the public or received substantial media attention, according to department guidelines.
For instance, in another case involving a bank, the Justice Department announced in August 2011 that it had closed a criminal investigation of Washington Mutual and its former executives connected to its collapse during the financial crisis.
The Justice Department has also announced that it was not bringing criminal charges in several leaked investigations of prominent politicians, including the former New York governor Eliot Spitzer and the former New Jersey senator Robert Torricelli. Earlier this year, federal prosecutors in Los Angeles announced that they had closed their investigation of Lance Armstrong without charging him, nearly two years after they began looking into accusations that he and his bicycling teammates had committed a variety of possible crimes by doping.
"Leaked investigations are like storm clouds that hang over companies and individuals, making it incredibly difficult for businesses to run or for people to live out their lives," said Boyd M. Johnson III, a partner at WilmerHale and a former federal prosecutor. "The Department of Justice has a responsibility to seriously consider issuing public statements of declination where investigations have leaked. It is a matter of fundamental fairness."
While it no longer faces the prospect of criminal charges, Goldman has absorbed substantial damage to its reputation from Abacus, the complex subprime mortgage product that it sold to clients. And even though it settled with the S.E.C., a midlevel employee in the bank's mortgage unit, Fabrice Tourre, still faces a civil trial related to the Abacus transaction. Its public image has also taken a hit from unflattering portrayals in the media, including its depiction as a "vampire squid" in a Rolling Stone article.
On Friday, Mr. Levin said that the Justice Department's decision only highlighted the need for stiffer regulations for Wall Street banks under the new Dodd-Frank financial reform laws.
"Yesterday's announcement makes it even more important that regulators implement Dodd-Frank with rules that do not water it down, and that they enforce those rules with vigor," he said. "The integrity of our financial markets and the strength of our economy demand that we make sure that actions such as Goldman Sachs's and other recently discovered misdeeds by financial institutions are ended."
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Carl Levin, above, had harsh words for Goldman Sachs. A report suggested that Lloyd C. Blankfein, left, the Goldman chief, might have misled lawmakers when testifying about mortgage deals. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WATSON/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES
 ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (92%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (86%); MISCONDUCT (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); WITNESSES (77%); TESTIMONY (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (69%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (61%); SUBPRIME LENDING (61%); HOUSING MARKET (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (78%); CARL LEVIN (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012



380 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Europe Pivot

BYLINE: By JOHN VINOCUR

 BODY:
AMSTERDAM -- A funny thing has happened to Barack Obama out there on the campaign trail. The president of the Pacific pivot looks remarkably interested in Europe.How could you tell for sure? After all, the last four years of trans-Atlantic relations, following the continual screech of the Bush/Chirac/Schrder interface, have been without any particular savor, heat or antipathy. That absence (really one of substance) is accompanied by the widespread hypothesis among Europeans that Obama feels he has more important things to do with his time.
For some, these circumstances could seem like an untrammeled blessing. 
The American president laid off making any big demands on the Europeans. The Europeans, in turn, continued hoping to see the multilateral fountain of reason they like to think inhabits Obama.
All in all, that's a largely passive relationship.
A dissonant theme from the American presidential campaign takes over at this point. It has come in the form of remarks from Obama about ''headwinds'' from Europe's financial crisis endangering America's recovery.
By way of emphasis, he sent the U.S. Treasury secretary, Tim Geithner, to a North Sea island to tell the German finance minister, Wolfgang Schuble -- and then the European Central Bank's president, Mario Draghi -- that Europe has ''to do some more things'' to push growth ''in the near term.'' The president's catchphrase for that is ''decisive action.''
Boom, pfft, cymbal clash:
The conservative Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, a leading German newspaper and an Angela Merkel loyalist, responded with rare vehemence, writing that Obama-the-candidate had struck up a ''headwinds song'' that was ''pushy, lecturing, and ignorant.''
Germany's economics minister, Rainer Brderle, complained that while the E.C.B. stood for monetary stability, the U.S. Federal Reserve bank had run a lax monetary policy whose ''economic effect has gone pop.''
A cabinet-level member of another European government told me, ''The administration talks on and on, and you listen, but so what?''
The reaction from major voices in Germany, overseer of Europe's austerity regimen, to the Obama administration's perceived hectoring was harsh and bitter in a way that made criticism of Mitt Romney's remarks in London about the ''disconcerting'' level of preparations for the Olympics seem frivolous.
Yet a massive irony intrudes here. On different scales, both Obama and Romney are clearly right.
Threats of strikes by cabdrivers and immigration officers, and the use of soldiers to replace the guards the Games' organizers failed to hire were of genuine concern. And it was spot on to cast Europe as a threat to everyone's well-being if it doesn't face up to reforms for fueling its economies beyond currently projected levels at the edge of recession.
The difference between the two presidential candidates' remarks was that while Romney's showed no aptitude for diplomacy, Obama's avoided publicly challenging Germany's austerity-only approach with frankness sufficient to bring change to Europe's now endless debt muddle.
With a very good argument in the president's hand -- move decisively now, or watch the markets tear the European Union apart (with America's unemployment rate and Obama's re-election in the balance) -- he chose to avoid singling Germany out, and instead put the problem on the back of the ''Europeans.''
Obama and Geithner not naming names in any of their statements looked pretty much like leading from behind. Germany knew who they were talking about -- but at the same time many Europeans were far ahead of the president, insisting that their central bank, in the face of German resistance, start buying the sovereign bonds of troubled members in the open market.
Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the Euro Group of common currency countries, stared the issue in the face, asking, ''Why does Germany treat the euro zone like a branch office?''
A kind of perverse response came at a meeting of the E.C.B.'s member countries when, in expectation of Germany's refusal, the bank abandoned its big-bang talk of buying sovereign bonds on an urgent basis.
The United States ought to have fit in here -- even with its decreased leverage and insufficiently explicit discussion of Germany's role -- at a moment when American trans-Atlantic concerns and recommendations, like Europe lowering its interest rates, are justified and reasonable.
In fact, considerable disregard has developed in relation to the Obama administration's capacity to persuade, dissuade, or create either serious confidence or discomfort in Europe.
In respect to Germany, there's not much reason for it to react otherwise.
Berlin knows after four years of experience that it won't confront anything like ''decisive action'' from Washington that might make it less comfortable doing what it pleases. Example: The German decision, alongside Russia and China, to abstain from approving U.N. intervention in Libya was followed four months later by Obama's presentation to Merkel of the Medal of Freedom.
The president of a Pacific-oriented America which he insists is ''a light to the world'' sounded peeved with a German-led Europe that has seemingly taken its eyes off the beacon.
''I've been spending an enormous amount of time trying to work with them,'' he declared. ''The sooner they take some decisive action, the better off we're going to be.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EURO CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); MONETARY POLICY (65%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (67%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MITT ROMNEY (78%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%); WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (74%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%) NORTH SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%) EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); NETHERLANDS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012



381 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: New Focus for Romney on Connecting and Closing the Empathy Gap

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
BOSTON -- Mitt Romney's biggest challenge at the moment is not President Obama. It's himself.A bruising summertime campaign by Democrats to tarnish and define Mr. Romney before he could fully introduce himself has contributed to a significant empathy gap with Mr. Obama. It is a rising concern among Romney campaign advisers, who are feverishly working to find ways to persuade voters that even though Mr. Romney is not like them, he can still relate to their lives.
The next three weeks provide a critical opportunity for Mr. Romney to strengthen his connection with voters. The selection of a running mate, which aides said he would announce Saturday, along with a Republican convention highlighting his family and a new wave of television ads are designed to urge voters to take a fresh look at Mr. Romney, who is still routinely seen as less likable than the president. 
Of all the statistics that Mr. Romney's aides pore over at the campaign headquarters here, one consistently worrisome finding is Mr. Obama's deeper personal appeal to voters. The deficit for Mr. Romney is not sugarcoated by his strategists, who bluntly acknowledge on Page 8 of their August political update to donors and supporters: ''Voters believe Obama is more relatable.''
Three months before Election Day, Mr. Romney is routinely matching -- or outshining -- the president when voters are asked who is more likely to help improve the nation's economy. He also holds a wide advantage on which candidate would best confront the budget deficit.
Yet the personal dimension of the race has been a stubborn hurdle for Mr. Romney, aides said, a point of frustration accentuated by relentless questions raised by the Obama campaign about Mr. Romney's tax returns, wealth and overall character traits. It is complicated by the often awkward campaign style of Mr. Romney, whose own supporters acknowledge that he is hardly a natural politician.
The contest between Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney will test the axiom of whether the candidate who is seen as the most likable will win. The Romney campaign is not focused so much on trying to get all voters to relate to Mr. Romney, but rather to show that Mr. Romney can relate to voters.
''Likability plays less of a role in an election like this where you have a single issue that dominates the national agenda,'' said Neil Newhouse, Mr. Romney's pollster. ''Likability doesn't solve the economy or put more middle-class Americans back to work.''
As Mr. Romney opens a four-state bus tour on Saturday in Virginia, a chief goal is trying to strengthen his relationship with voters. It will be his most extensive burst of retail politicking in more than a month, which comes as leading conservative voices worry that Mr. Romney has squandered an opportunity this summer against Mr. Obama.
The conservative radio host Laura Ingraham aired her frustration on Friday, saying, ''Mitt Romney cannot at this point be convincing himself that he's winning.'' She argued on her show that Mr. Romney has spent more time raising money than pushing back against Democratic attacks about his background.
The headline of an essay by the conservative columnist Matthew Continetti in The Washington Free Beacon declared: ''The Killing: The battle to define Mitt Romney is over -- and Romney lost.''
For his part, Mr. Romney ignored the criticism on Friday as he flew to Norfolk, Va., saying, ''A lot of campaign work is raising money, which has its own rewards obviously, but campaigning is the most fun, the most enjoyable and rewarding.''
With a strong majority of Americans saying the country is on the wrong track, and a national unemployment rate of 8.3 percent, strategists in both campaigns believe the presidential race is nearly deadlocked in most battleground states. But several Republican officials say there is time for Mr. Romney to take control of the race and provide more details about his plans to turn the economy around and create jobs.
''He needs to have face time with voters and a more intimate setting so people can get the measure of the man,'' said Gov. Bob McDonnell of Virginia, who will campaign on Saturday with Mr. Romney. ''It certainly is a plus if people like you. Then they'll trust you on the issues.''
Several national polls released this week suggest that Mr. Obama is emerging from the summer in better shape than Mr. Romney. But a financial advantage that the president's campaign enjoyed in television advertising spending for most of the summer will end this month when Mr. Romney is able to start spending his general election money.
Trying to narrow the empathy gap, which is even more pronounced among female voters, is a central goal of Mr. Romney's strategy for the Republican convention, which opens Aug. 27 in Tampa, Fla. A series of swing state polls from Quinnipiac University/New York Times/CBS News found that Mr. Romney fell short when voters were asked which candidate cared more about their needs and problems.
''Romney gives the impression that he is totally disconnected from normal people,'' said Harry Kroll, 68, a software consultant and independent voter from Rhinelander, Wis., who spoke in a follow-up interview from the poll. ''Just the way he talks, the phrases he uses, are not what normal people use.''
The take-away among Mr. Romney's advisers is that a majority of voters believe Mr. Romney will do a better job rebuilding the economy, but they are unsure whether he will fix it for them or only for wealthier Americans. In short: If many voters are ready to fire Mr. Obama, they are not yet sold on whether Mr. Romney deserves to be hired.
Alex Castellanos, the Republican advertising strategist who worked on Mr. Romney's presidential campaign in 2008, said questions of likability may be overstated in an election dominated by economic concerns.
''When your house is on fire, you don't really care if your fireman is that likable or not. You do care if he is useful or not,'' Mr. Castellanos said. ''You are more likable if you show that you can solve the problem. Mitt Romney hasn't yet done that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mr. Romney working the rope line in Colorado. The personal dimension, and the ''likability'' factor, remain a hurdle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); BUDGETS (67%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012



382 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COMMON SENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1698 words

HEADLINE: In the Superrich, Clues to What Might Be in Romney's Tax Returns

BYLINE: By JAMES B. STEWART

 BODY:
On the face of it, Senator Harry Reid's explosive but flimsily sourced claim that Mitt Romney paid no income tax seems preposterous. Mr. Romney has denied it, and without his returns no one can say for sure. But for someone who makes millions of dollars a year, would it even be possible?Evidently it is.
It so happens that this summer the Internal Revenue Service released data from the 400 individual income tax returns reporting the highest adjusted gross income. This elite ultrarich group earned on average $202 million in 2009, the latest year available. And buried in the data is the startling disclosure that six of the 400 paid no federal income tax.
The I.R.S. has never before disclosed that last fact. 
Not even Mr. Romney, with reported 2010 income of $21.7 million, qualifies for membership in this select group of 400. But the data provides a window into the financial lives and tax rates of the superrich. Since the I.R.S. doesn't release data for the tiny percentage of Americans at Mr. Romney's income level, the 400 are the closest proxy.
And that data demonstrates that many of the ultrarich can and do reduce their tax liability to very low levels, even zero. Besides the six who paid no federal income tax, the I.R.S. reported that 27 paid from zero to 10 percent of their adjusted gross incomes and another 89 paid between 10 and 15 percent, which is close to the 13.9 percent rate that Mr. Romney disclosed that he paid in 2010. (At the other end of the spectrum, 82 paid 30 to 35 percent. None paid more than 35 percent.) So more than a quarter of the people earning an average of over $200 million in 2009 paid less than 15 percent of their adjusted gross income in taxes.
How do they do it?
The data show that the ultrarich typically pay low tax rates every year, but 2009 was a special case. In 2008, people with large stock portfolios and other less liquid assets were disproportionately hit with large losses on paper. One of the oddities of the tax code is that capital gains taxes are discretionary, since they must be paid only when gains are realized. And they can be offset by losses. The silver lining in a bad year like 2008 for wealthy people is that they can ''harvest'' losses by selling assets, then use those losses to offset any gains. They can also carry forward the losses to offset gains in future years.
There's ample evidence that happened in 2009 among the richest taxpayers. Their average income, $202 million, dropped from $270 million in 2008 and was the lowest since 2004. Like Mr. Romney in 2010, for the richest taxpayers most income comes from capital gains and other investment income. Their net capital gains (the data doesn't include gross gains and losses) dropped by nearly 40 percent, from an average of $154 million in 2008 to $93 million in 2009, which accounts for nearly all of their drop in total income. Even with these lower gains, these 400 taxpayers, a minuscule fraction of the population at large, still managed to account for 16 percent of all capital gains. That is the highest percentage since the data was first released for 1992, when that percentage was less than 6 percent.
Tax experts I consulted said these results almost certainly reflected aggressive use of tax-loss carry-forwards from 2008, since the stock market bottomed in March 2009 and rallied strongly during the rest of the year.
The superrich also accounted for a disproportionate amount of dividend income, which averaged over $26 million for the top 400, or over 6 percent of total dividend income, also a record. Capital gains and dividends are both taxed at a maximum rate of 15 percent, as opposed to the maximum rate on earned income of 35 percent, which helps explain why so many of the superrich pay a relatively low rate. Still, that preferential rate doesn't get them anywhere near zero, or even 10 percent.
Edward Kleinbard, professor of law at the Gould School of Law at the University of Southern California, explained it this way, ''You start with income dominated by tax-preferred income -- capital gains and qualified dividends. That gets you to 15 percent. Then you use charitable contributions of appreciated securities to reduce ordinary income. But the charitable contribution deduction is capped at 50 percent of adjusted gross income. Now you're way down, but you're not at zero.''
What does it take to get to zero, or close to it? According to Professor Kleinbard, there are only two additional ways: tax loss carry-forwards to offset capital gains, and tax shelters, many of which have been deemed abusive by the I.R.S., to offset any remaining ordinary income after other deductions.
(Other possibilities are the foreign tax credit and general business credit, but total tax credits averaged only $2.4 million for the top 400, and neither would seem to be of much benefit to Mr. Romney.)
Since Mr. Romney seems to have had relatively little ordinary income since leaving Bain Capital, he may have been able to get to a very low rate in 2009 using tax loss carry-forwards from 2008 to offset capital gains and charitable contributions to offset up to 50 percent of his ordinary income. Without access to the returns, it's impossible to know whether he would also have needed some additional form of tax shelter, aggressive or otherwise, to get even lower, or even to zero.
Mr. Romney has been taken to task for an abusive tax shelter used by Marriott International in 1994 while Mr. Romney was on the board and audit committee there. But there's been no direct evidence he knew the details, and in any event, the I.R.S. started cracking down on such shelters in 2000, making it highly unlikely Mr. Romney would have embraced the strategy for his own returns within the last decade.
He's also been faulted for treating a horse partly owned by his wife as a loss-generating passive investment, rather than as a hobby. Even though that had little effect on his overall tax liability, Professor Kleinbard contends that that and other tax avoidance measures demonstrate a propensity to engage in aggressive tax strategies.
But even Professor Kleinbard doubts that Mr. Romney paid no income tax. ''It's possible theoretically that Romney didn't pay, but improbable,'' he said. Far more likely is that he paid a very low rate that would generate renewed criticism.
This may help explain why Mr. Romney is refusing to release more of his own returns, especially those for 2009. On the face of it, his stubbornness is perplexing. The electorate already knows that he's immensely wealthy and that he pays a very low tax rate compared with many people who make far less.
There's no reason to fault Mr. Romney for taking advantage of loopholes the tax code offers the superrich, however ill advised they may be as a matter of public policy. Mr. Romney didn't make the law, and he's called for broadening the tax base, which presumably means eliminating some of the breaks that benefited him. He could easily speak to that issue, since who would know better than he does which loopholes should be closed?
Senator John McCain, the former Republican presidential candidate who received 23 years of Mr. Romney's returns as part of the vice-presidential vetting process in 2008, has volunteered that ''I can personally vouch for the fact that there was nothing in his tax returns that would in any way be disqualifying for him to be a candidate.'' Something that would disqualify, him, as opposed to merely alienating voters, may be a pretty high bar, but presumably it rules out anything illegal or unethical. Senator McCain declined to be more specific.
Which leaves plenty of room for speculation, informed or otherwise. Senator Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, set off a media storm when he told The Huffington Post the week before last that a former Bain Capital investor had told him Mr. Romney ''didn't pay any taxes for 10 years,'' adding, ''I'm not certain'' if that's true. It can't be -- Mr. Romney must have paid sales, property and other taxes. Presumably Senator Reid's unnamed source meant that Mr. Romney paid no federal income tax for years.
The candidate promptly denied the claim, saying he had paid taxes every year. Still, he was vague, telling ABC News he ''couldn't remember'' whether he paid less than his 2010 federal income tax rate of 13.9 percent in some years and didn't specify which taxes he meant.
And when Senator McCain said there was nothing ''disqualifying'' in Mr. Romney's returns, he would not have seen Mr. Romney's returns for 2009, which were filed after his vice-presidential vetting.
As long as Mr. Romney withholds his returns, continued speculation, and even outlandish conjecture, will probably flourish. ''It's reinforced my view that he'd be better off just releasing the returns rather than having people blindly speculating,'' Leonard E. Burman, a tax specialist and professor of public affairs at the Maxwell School of Syracuse University, told me this week. ''It seems like one of those slow-drip water torture things, and eventually he's going to have to do it.''
For the record, I paid total tax of 37 percent in 2010 and 33 percent in 2011. And should there be a groundswell of interest, I'll release my results for as many years as anyone wants. I haven't done the calculations for years before 2010, but I'd be surprised if they're much different.
What's abundantly clear, both from Mr. Romney's 2010 returns and from the returns of the top 400, is that at the very pinnacle of taxpayers, the United States has a regressive tax system. The top 400 earn more than 1 percent of all income in the United States, more than double their share in 1992. These 400 earned a total of $81 billion in 2009 -- but paid an average tax rate of just 19.9 percent.
''It's regressive because capital gains and dividends dominate the top returns and are taxed at a preferential rate,'' Professor Kleinbard said.
Professor Burman added: ''Our tax code has a number of flaws, one of which is that it doesn't do a very good job of discriminating based on income. It is progressive over all, but very high-income people can pay very little tax. How they avoid tax is an important and legitimate issue we should be talking about.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The I.R.S. disclosed that six of the 400 people in the country with the highest gross income paid no federal income tax at all. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHARTS: The Top 400: Lower Taxes and More Capital Gains and Dividends: The 400 taxpayers with the highest adjusted gross income, earned less in 2009, the latest year for which data is available, than in the two previous years. Many had tax rates lower than 15 percent because much of their income was from capital gains and dividends, which are taxed at lower rates than ordinary income. (Sources: Internal Revenue Service
 Bureau of Labor Statistics (to adjust for inflation)) (B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); INCOME TAX (92%); TAX LAW (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); HARRY REID (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012



383 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
InternationalAFGHAN ALLY KILLS
THREE G.I.'S, OFFICIAL SAYS
An Afghan police officer shot and killed at least three American Special Forces soldiers after inviting them for a meal at a checkpoint in southern Afghanistan, an Afghan official said, in what appeared to be premeditated killings of American soldiers by one of their Afghan allies. Page A4 
EGYPT TIGHTENS SINAI GRIP
Egypt has tightened its grip on the Sinai region. Last year, residents there threw out the police and jihadists moved in, set fire to police stations in several cities and killed several officers. Page A4
WORDS AMID REFUGEE FLOOD
As refugees flow across the border from war-torn Syria into Turkey by the thousands, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton is arriving there for a strategy session with Turkish officials. One goal is to assess what else can be done, an American official said. Page A5
National
INQUEST INTO HOSPITAL,
SITE OF HEPATITIS OUTBREAK
So far, 31 of the more than 1,200 people who were patients at Exeter Hospital in New Hampshire have tested positive for the same strain of hepatitis C as David Kwiatkowski, a man employed there as a medical technician between April 2011 and May 2012. Page A7
BULLDOZERS AND TOURISTS
Along the National Mall in Washington, D. C., bulldozers and scaffolding have become fixtures beside some monuments, like the Lincoln Memorial, where construction crews have been making repairs for two years. Page A10
New York
UNLIKELY VOICE IN DEBATE
OVER TEACHER MISCONDUCT
In late July, Campbell Brown, a former CNN anchor and mother of two young sons inserted herself into the political fight surrounding the prevention of sexual misconduct of teachers with students. Page A12
Business
ACCUSATIONS FACING BANK
CAST A CHILL OVERSEAS
Money-laundering accusations leveled against a British bank by New York's top banking regulator have global banks worried that their New York operations could make them public targets for processing transactions already deemed legal by federal regulators, according to federal authorities with knowledge of the concerns. Page B1
GOLDMAN CASE CLOSED
After deciding not to prosecute Goldman Sachs for its conduct during the financial crisis, the Justice Department made the rare move to publicly announce that the investigation was closed. Page B1
Sports
FOR PENTATHLETES, SUCCESS
RESTS AMONG STRANGERS
For pentathlon competitors who have trained vigorously, luck of the draw plays a large role in when it comes time to riding a horse they have just met. Page B9
Arts
MUSIC FESTIVAL
BEGINS AT TANGLEWOOD
The Festival of Contemporary Music in Lenox Mass., a staple at Tanglewood, began with works by Elliott Carter, Harrison Birtwistle, Niccol Castiglioni, Luke Bedford and Sean Shepherd. Page C1
OLYMPICS 'COLOMBO' STYLE
For those viewers still trying to see NBC's Olympics evening coverage without knowing the results in advance, there is a way to enjoy them regardless of spoilers. This technique began most prominently with ''Columbo,'' the long-running detective series starring Peter Falk, which began with the murder's identity, Neil Genzlinger writes. Page C1
Op-Ed
Joe Nocera PAGE A15
Charles M. Blow PAGE A15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); FESTIVALS (83%); SHOOTINGS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); REFUGEES (75%); HEPATITIS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); HEPATITIS C (73%); MISCONDUCT (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); FIRES (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (68%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (68%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (68%); EPIDEMICS (68%); TRACK & FIELD (64%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (63%); BANKING LAW (63%); HORSES (60%); MUSIC (60%); MONEY LAUNDERING (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); EGYPT (94%); TURKEY (92%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012



384 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: The British Lawmaker Nipping at Tabloids' Heels

BYLINE: By AMY CHOZICK

 BODY:
LONDONSIX years ago, Rupert Murdoch's British tabloid The Sun described Tom Watson, then a little-known 39-year-old member of Parliament, as part of a ''plotting gang of weasels'' who played ''grubby politics at a time when soldiers are dying in Afghanistan.''
Recently, Mr. Watson got some payback.
For years he led the push to investigate the freewheeling tactics at British tabloids, most notably those belonging to Mr. Murdoch, as the scandal involving phone hacking unfolded. Last month prosecutors brought criminal charges against eight senior editors and reporters at News International, the British publishing arm of Mr. Murdoch's News Corporation. 
Since the accusations were first made public, Mr. Watson, a Labour politician who had himself been the subject of tabloid fodder, has emerged as a kind of Inspector Javert of the Murdochs. He served on the parliamentary committee on media ethics that repeatedly questioned Mr. Murdoch and his son James; traveled to Los Angeles to attend the company's shareholder meeting where he leveled new charges, and he even recently published a book about the phone-hacking scandal, ''Dial M For Murdoch.''
It is hard to imagine even the most publicity-craving American official writing a similar book in the middle of Congressional hearings. And Mr. Watson has faced criticism for his ubiquity in the British news media and for telling James Murdoch, who formerly oversaw News Corporation's British operations, during the hearing that he is ''the first mafia boss in history who didn't know he was running a criminal enterprise.'' The criticisms have not deterred Mr. Watson.
On a sunny afternoon in his office at Portcullis House in Westminster, the shades pulled tight, he said he expected that the phone hacking would prove to be the tip of the iceberg. ''I'm certain we'll see more evidence emerge of computer hacking,'' Mr. Watson said in a far-ranging interview in May. Last month a Scotland Yard investigation did reveal that wrongdoing at Murdoch-owned British papers extended to computer hacking and payments to public officials.
Mr. Watson, 45, is not the typical corporate gadfly. He indulges in the role-playing video game The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim in his free time and quotes Bob Dylan in describing News International's mistakes. (''The ladder of the law has no top and no bottom,'' he said in a May news conference.)
Last year, Mr. Watson was named deputy chairman of the Labour Party, a position that coordinates the party's campaigns.
On his office wall at Parliament hangs an illustrated rendering of Mr. Watson dressed as Super Mario, royal blue overalls and all, and a framed copy of the final edition of the 168-year-old News of the World, the Murdoch tabloid closed in July 2011 after reports of widespread phone hacking emerged. ''Thank You & Goodbye,'' the headline read.
Born in Sheffield and raised in Kidderminster in Britain's West Midlands area, he grew up reading the left-wing tabloid Morning Star (founded in 1930 as the mouthpiece of Britain's Communist Party) and middle-market Daily Express. He was first elected to Parliament in 2001, representing West Bromwich East, a central district that includes most of the town of West Bromwich and has one of the highest unemployment rates in Britain.
IN 2006, Mr. Watson signed a letter calling for the resignation of Prime Minister Tony Blair, whom Mr. Murdoch still backed. The move, Mr. Watson said, prompted the ire of Rebekah Brooks (then Rebekah Wade), the onetime editor of both The Sun and News of the World who has now been charged with phone hacking and obstruction.
He said the political editor at the Blair-friendly Sun warned him: ''My editor will pursue you for the rest of your life. She will never forgive you for what you did to her Tony.'' Ms. Brooks could not be reached for comment, and a News Corporation spokeswoman could not comment on the criminal investigation.
In 2009 The Telegraph reported that Mr. Watson claimed the maximum government allowance on a set of dining room chairs for his London home. The purchase, which he had to defend with the parliamentary fees office, earned Mr. Watson a free pizza cutter from the department store Marks & Spencer, a detail not lost on the British media.
He said he did not think much about phone hacking until 2009 when The Guardian published an article about how News of the World reporters regularly intercepted voice mail messages. Colin Myler, then the editor of The News of the World (and now of The New York Daily News), answered lawmakers' questions about the accusations. ''His body language was such that I thought there had to be more to it,'' Mr. Watson said. ''That's when we really started to drill down deeper.''
Around that time, News International put Mr. Watson and his family under surveillance.
''We were put under unbearable pressure,'' Mr. Watson said. He said the scrutiny put on his family by News International contributed to his divorce. ''My wife and I are separated mainly because she's not patient about News International in any way,'' Mr. Watson said.
In November, James Murdoch said he was subsequently made aware that the company had spied on Mr. Watson. ''I apologize unreservedly for that,'' he said in a parliamentary select committee hearing. ''It is not something that I would condone. It is not something I had knowledge of, and it is not something that has a place in the way we operate.''
In May, Mr. Watson, as part of Parliament's Culture, Media and Sport Select Committee, was one of six Labour and Liberal Democrat legislators who declared that the elder Murdoch was ''not a fit person to exercise the stewardship of a major international company.''
News Corporation called the report's declaration ''unjustified and highly partisan,'' but Mr. Watson stands by the report's language. With unexpected respect he called Mr. Murdoch ''one of the great media innovators of the last half century,'' but said that the scandal had exposed a ''corporate culture that is shot to pieces.'' (A News Corporation spokeswoman declined to comment for this article.)
Mr. Watson's new book, written with the journalist Martin Hickman, recounts the episodes that led to the closing of The News of the World. In the book he tells a story steeped in the language of class warfare and refers to himself in the third person, in both mundane and heroic terms. (''Watson crept out of bed and bought the papers.'' ''As Watson walked along the beach, he was in tears.'')
HE said he did not see a conflict in writing a book about a corporate scandal while sitting on a committee investigating that scandal. Instead, he said he considered the book a public service.
''It's a complex story that was not told in the pages of British newspapers until very recently,'' Mr. Watson said. He added: ''And our select committees aren't as powerful as Senate committees'' in the United States.
Mr. Watson said he expected the investigation into News Corporation would stretch on for at least two more years. The scandal, meanwhile, has helped raise Mr. Watson's profile, a detail not lost on his opponents, who feel the crusade against Mr. Murdoch was motivated in part for political gain. Mr. Watson said it was not. But he did say that a murky area goes with the territory.
''The good guys and the bad guys are all slightly flawed in this tragedy,'' Mr. Watson said. The bells of Big Ben just outside his office struck five o'clock in the background. He added: ''In some ways it's so positively Shakespearean.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TOM WATSON (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MCNEW/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); SCANDALS (90%); WIRETAPPING (89%); POLITICS (89%); NEWS CORP PHONE HACKING SCANDAL (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); COMPUTER CRIME (75%); ETHICS (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); BOOK REVIEWS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (67%); POLICE FORCES (65%); COMPUTER GAMES (60%); PUBLISHING (58%); APPOINTMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (92%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (92%); NWS (ASX) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (91%); JAMES MURDOCH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012



385 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Wisconsin's 4-Way G.O.P. Primary Spotlights a Changed Political Scene

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
FOND DU LAC, Wis. -- Visiting a scrap-metal company here, Tommy G. Thompson did not wait for introductions from company guides. He climbed uninvited onto heavy machinery to clutch drivers' hands. He stepped past an ''employees only'' sign into an office where he called out, ''How's it going?'' to a worker on the phone. He squeezed himself into a closet-size break room, startling three employees between bites of hamburgers.There is a reason Mr. Thompson, who wants to become a United States senator, is hunting so hard for voters. Mr. Thompson, elected governor of Wisconsin four times, the Health and Human Services secretary under President George W. Bush, and once seen as the dominant political voice in this state, faces a serious challenge for the Republican nomination -- a spot that once seemed nearly certain to be his.
A poll released this week from Marquette Law School shows Mr. Thompson ahead, but a large chunk of voters still undecided.
At 70, Mr. Thompson, who was first elected to the state Assembly in 1966 and last elected governor in 1998, finds himself in a state where the political landscape has become polarized, and in a broader national political universe that is also vastly changed. 
He is facing the same sort of criticism that has undone establishment Republican candidates this year in states like Texas, Nebraska and Indiana. Among the claims hurled against Mr. Thompson by critics, not to mention by a flood of advertising from outside groups: He is a career politician who went on to work for a Washington law and lobbying firm (though not, he says, as a lobbyist), a leader from an era that has come and gone, and a relative moderate in an era of pure conservatism.
''I will put my conservative bona fides against anybody,'' Mr. Thompson said in an interview, pounding his fist on a nearby table from time to time. ''I'm the only one in America that's ever got rid of an entitlement program,'' he went on, referring to his pioneering efforts in this state to limit welfare. ''I started the conservative movement and you say, 'Am I conservative enough?' ''
Still, Mr. Thompson's opponents have tried to line up to the right of him -- all three of them. In a single race, they seemingly reflect virtually every current genre of political challenger. Eric Hovde is a hedge fund manager who has poured millions of his own money into the race and whose appeal is his lack of political experience. Mark Neumann, a former congressman and a favorite among some of Wisconsin's most conservative voters, has been buoyed by support from Senator Jim DeMint of South Carolina. And Jeff Fitzgerald, the Wisconsin Assembly speaker, has run, in essence, on his backing of Gov. Scott Walker's agenda, including cuts to collective bargaining for most public workers, moves that have set off a partisan war in Wisconsin since 2010.
In truth, voters took little notice of this race until recently, and along the streets of cities like Green Bay, some residents said they still were uncertain who was running even as Tuesday's primary election approached. Between recall efforts against Governor Walker and against state senators in both parties, Wisconsin has been in near-constant campaign mode for a year -- a fact, voters said, that was leaving them weary now, even in a presidential election year when Wisconsin is viewed as in play, even in a year when control of the Senate could depend on this seat.
The Senate seat was left open by Herb Kohl, a Democrat who is retiring. Whoever wins the Republican primary will face Tammy Baldwin, a member of the House of Representatives and a Democrat, who could become the first openly gay senator.
In the Republican primary, the diversity of the Tea Party movement is in full view. Not everyone agrees on who the authentic Tea Party candidate is, adding complication to that group's role in the race and, perhaps, aiding Mr. Thompson by dividing voters.
Mr. Hovde, 48, who moved back to Madison in 2011 after living much of his adult life in Washington, has won the support of FreedomWorks, a Washington group that has helped build Tea Party efforts. His supporters often liken him to Ron Johnson, another political novice and businessman who won a Senate seat here in 2010. But Mr. Neumann, 58, has won help from the Tea Party Express and the Club for Growth.
In the Marquette Law School poll, conducted Aug. 2 through Aug. 5 among 519 likely primary voters, Mr. Thompson was leading with 28 percent compared to Mr. Hovde with 20 percent, Mr. Neumann with 18 percent and Mr. Fitzgerald with 13 percent. The poll, which showed the race tightening in the past month, also said 21 percent of those surveyed were still undecided.
The fighting here has grown fierce and bitter, packed with bickering and endless advertisements and the lobbing of outraged news releases back and forth. So far, Governor Walker, who survived the recall effort against him in June, has not endorsed anyone in the primary, but he has said he could serve as something of a referee in the increasingly tense race.
''As a private-sector businessperson, it never ceases to amaze me how petty, disingenuous and childish this whole political process is,'' Mr. Hovde said in an interview, arguing that the political fight ought not to eclipse the largest issue in this race: the nation's financial crisis. ''The simple fact is we're going to economically collapse in about two to three to four years if we don't change.''
For now, though, much of the conversation is about Mr. Thompson, who ran a short-lived campaign for president in the last cycle, and whether his brand of politics has a place in 2012.
Among the loudest assertions against him: That he had favored President Obama's health care law, as evidenced, his critics say, by a statement he made in 2009, along with Richard A. Gephardt, a former Democratic leader in the House.
''The bill before the Senate this week isn't and shouldn't be the final answer, but the status quo is simply unacceptable,'' the statement from the two men said. ''It is time to set aside political differences, come together and remind the nation that a civil dialogue based on consensus principles, one that continues to move the process forward, is the ultimate pathway to achieving the meaningful and common-sense solution that Americans want and deserve.''
Last week, Mr. Thompson said the notion that he favors the health care law that was ultimately approved is ''just absolutely insane,'' adding, that ''the Obamacare Affordable Care Act is wrongheaded, too much regulation, too much taxes and it does not work.''
That said, he is not opposed, in principle, to the notion of working across party lines.
''I'm the only one that can win here,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''I will attract the conservatives. I will attract the Tea Party individuals. I will attract the independents and I will attract the Reagan Democrats -- the coalitions that I've always been able to put together.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eric Hovde is a hedge fund manager and a political novice.
Tommy G. Thompson, center, is well known in Wisconsin.
 Mark Neumann is a favorite among more conservative voters. Jeff Fitzgerald, the Assembly speaker, is in the primary race too. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DARREN HAUCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LOBBYING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); GOVERNORS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); LAWYERS (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (55%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: TOMMY THOMPSON (88%); JIM DEMINT (54%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012



386 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 5617 words

HEADLINE: Live Updates: Romney Chooses Paul Ryan as Running Mate

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Live coverage of Mitt Romney's announcement of his vice-presidential candidate on Saturday in Norfolk, Va. Several signs suggest Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin has emerged as the leading candidate for the position. 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney introduced Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin as his running mate Saturday morning in Norfolk, Va., the beginning of their bus tour through battleground states. The Times is providing live updates and analysis.
Live Dashboard
12:13 P.M. | Live Blog Wrap
Mitt Romney introduced Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin as his running mate on Saturday morning, ending months of speculation and setting up a sharp contrast for November. Our live coverage here is done, but stay tuned to The Caucus and NYTimes.com for continuing coverage. Thanks for following along.
- 
12:10 P.M. | Murdoch, Drudge and Other Conservatives Praise Pick
Rupert Murdoch, who has made little secret of his lukewarm feelings about Mitt Romney, took to Twitter on Saturday and breathed a sigh of relief.
Among leading conservatives in the media, he was hardly alone.
"Thank God!" Mr. Murdoch wrote. "Now we might have a real election on the great issues of the day. Paul Ryan almost perfect choice."
Those words - coming from someone who has recently questioned whether Mr. Romney had the heart or the stomach to make a strong conservative Republican nominee - echoed a widespread sense of enthusiasm in the conservative media on Saturday.
Never entirely satisfied with the likely Republican nominee's conservative convictions, the writers, radio personalities and talking heads of the political right have long embraced Mr. Ryan as something many of them said Mr. Romney was not: one of their own.
Matt Drudge led his Web site with an article about Mr. Ryan's first appearance as Mr. Romney's running mate. "Ryan Rocks It!" the headline screamed. Fred Barnes, a writer with The Weekly Standard, wrote that conservatives could cast their doubts about Mr. Romney's boldness aside. "The Romney who picked Paul Ryan as his vice-presidential running mate is an entirely different person."
Erick Erickson, who runs the widely read Red State blog, seemed to sum up the feelings of many conservatives who have been worried the Romney campaign seemed astray. "What they had been doing was not and is not working. Paul Ryan works."
- 
11:42 A.M. | The Caucus Click: Hitting the Road
- 
11:35 A.M. | Polling: Lack of Support for Ryan's Medicare Proposal
A CNN/ORC poll conducted in late May asked about the Ryan budget plan and found few Americans supportive of his proposal to overhaul Medicare. Among all Americans, 58 percent said the country would be worse off under the plan to give subsidies to seniors to use to buy private health insurance, while 35 percent approved. Nearly all demographic groups were opposed to Mr. Ryan's proposals, with nearly three-quarters of seniors opposed. Even Republicans were divided, with 48 percent supportive of the measures and 50 percent in opposition. 
- 
11:19 A.M. | Harry Reid Weighs in on Selection of Ryan
 Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, took time out from raising questionable questions about Mitt Romney's tax returns to weigh in on his selection of Paul Ryan as a running mate.
"By picking Representative Paul Ryan, Governor Romney has doubled down on his commitment to gut Social Security and end Medicare as we know it," Mr. Reid said in a statement. "Romney's choice demonstrates that catering to the Tea Party and the far right is more important to him that standing up for the middle class."
- 
11:16 A.M. | Ryan Pick Means Ticket Lacks Diversity
There are a lot of things that Paul Ryan might bring to Mitt Romney's campaign. Ethnic, gender and racial diversity are not among them.
In a year when both campaigns have talked openly about the importance of the female vote and the Hispanic vote, Mr. Romney chose a 42-year-old white man to be his running mate.
That means that the Republican campaign will have to find other ways to appeal to those two, important demographic groups. 
Mr. Romney's campaign made clear throughout its vice-presidential search process that it was considering minorities and women as a possible running mate.
They let slip the name of Condoleezza Rice, the former secretary of state, as a possible candidate. Ms. Rice is African-American.
The campaign put Mr. Romney on the campaign trail with a series of women, including Senator Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire. And he campaigned with Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana, who is of Indian descent.
But in the end, Mr. Romney chose to embrace Mr. Ryan, whose Midwestern roots and Catholic background provide something of a diversity for Mr. Romney, a Mormon who lives in Boston.
- 
11:06 A.M. | House Democrats Jump on Ryan Announcement
House Democrats didn't take long to begin tying Mr. Ryan to Republicans they hope to unseat in November.
 Less than two hours after the vice-presidential announcement, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee was issuing a flurry of e-mailed news releases aimed at various Republican incumbents.
One sample headline: "Congresswoman Buerkle Has New Running Mate: Republican Budget That Ends Medicare."
The release referred to Representative Ann Marie Buerkle, who is fighting for re-election in New York and can expect a lot of incoming Democratic fire over the Ryan budget now that her colleague is at the top of the ticket.
"The Republican budget is now Congresswoman Buerkle's running mate as she must defend the indefensible - more tax cuts for millionaires and higher health care bills for seniors on Medicare," said Jesse Ferguson, a Democratic committee spokesman.
Republicans believe they can counter the Medicare claims by pointing out that Democrats cut some Medicare spending to pay for the new health care law.
- 
11:01 A.M. | Polling Shows Ryan Relatively Unknown to Voters
Mr. Ryan is relatively unknown to American voters. A CNN/ORC poll conducted this week found 27 percent of Americans view him favorably, 19 percent unfavorably, and about four in 10 Americans said they did not know or hadn't heard enough about him. But among Republicans and those who lean Republican, nearly half viewed him favorably, about one in 10 viewed him unfavorably, and about three in 10 hadn't heard enough about him.
- 
10:52 A.M. | Ryan Pick Likely to Please Conservatives
One of the questions that has dogged Mr. Romney for years has been the level of his personal commitment to conservative principles. 
The decision to pick Mr. Ryan may have helped ease those concerns, at least among some of the party's members on the right.
Ralph Reed, a conservative Christian leader, issued an effusive statement on Saturday morning.
"Mitt Romney choosing Paul Ryan as his vice-presidential nominee is an inspired, outstanding selection," Mr. Reed wrote.
Mr. Ryan is a pro-life Republican, so that helps with social conservatives like Mr. Reed, whose issues include abortion and marriage.
"He is a person of devout Christian faith who has a 100 percent pro-life and pro-family voting record in his 14 years in Congress," Mr. Reed wrote. "He will excite and energize social conservatives, who will play a critical role in the outcome of the elections."
For fiscal conservatives, Mr. Ryan is likely to be a home run. He has been pushing Republicans to go further in cutting the size of government than others in the party. 
But some Tea Party members might not see him as the ideal person to represent their interests. He's an insider-type politician who works from within the system, not against it.
In an article this week that I wrote with Trip Gabriel about pressure from conservatives, Richard Viguerie, the conservative direct mail pioneer, called him "a nice guy" but said, "He is not Tea Party."
"He's part of the Washington crowd," Mr. Viguerie said Thursday. "His solution is basically a version of Washington, D.C., insanity. His proposal doesn't balance the budget for 28 years."
- 
10:44 A.M. | TimesCast Politics: Romney Picks Ryan
If you're viewing this on a mobile device, you can watch the video here.
- 
10:40 A.M. | The Caucus Click: A Different Ride for Portman
- 
10:24 A.M. | Obama-Biden Quick to Criticize Romney-Ryan
President Obama's campaign has already produced and released a video attacking Paul Ryan's budget.
"Paul Ryan is the mastermind behind the extreme G.O.P. budget plan," the video says as it shows Mr. Ryan, saying his plan is about "rewriting the health care system, Medicare, Social Security, our entire tax system."
The video then shows Mr. Romney saying: "I think it'd be marvelous if the Senate were to pick up Paul Ryan's budget and to adopt it."
The video quickly moves to the central case Democrats make against Mr. Ryan - and now Mr. Romney - that his plan would revamp Medicare.
"It hurts seniors," the video states. A CNN journalist declares: "The Paul Ryan plan turns Medicare into a voucher system."
The Obama campaign Web site also has been updated with the news of Paul Ryan's selection, now referring to the Republican ticket as "The Go Back Team."
"Now that we know who's on both teams, it's time to pick a side," the Obama Web site says.
Clicking a "learn more" button takes visitors to a new Web site with five key facts about Mr. Ryan.
Among them: "Paul Ryan's top-down budget plan is a sham," "Paul Ryan would gut middle class investments," and "Paul Ryan's plan would end medicare as we know it."
The site also - of course - encourages donations to the Obama-Biden campaign.
- 
10:05 A.M. | Ryan Choice Means No Veterans on Either Ticket
 Against the backdrop of a battleship, the selection of Paul Ryan means this year will be the first time in 80 years that no candidate on either of the two major-party tickets will have served in uniform.
The last time none of the four candidates had military experience was 1932 when the Democrats, Franklin D. Roosevelt and John Nance Garner, beat the Republicans, Herbert Hoover and Charles Curtis. And even then, Roosevelt had previously served as assistant secretary of the Navy under Woodrow Wilson, even if not in uniform.
 This represents a major evolution in American leadership. From Harry S. Truman to the elder George Bush, every president had military experience, though not always in combat. Bill Clinton was the first president since Franklin Roosevelt without personal time in the military, though his vice president, Al Gore, had served.
President Obama, who beat the Vietnam War hero, Senator John McCain, in 2008, and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. were the first winning ticket without military experience since World War II.
- 
10:03 A.M. | Romney Campaign Emphasizes Ryan's Youth
Among the many images that the Romney campaign will like from Saturday morning's introduction, one of the best may be of Mr. Ryan and his young kids on the stage after he gave his speech.
That tableu reinforces the idea that Mr. Ryan represents a new generation for the White House. Mr. Ryan has three young children: Liza, Charlie and Sam. He is married to Janna Little. 
Mr. Romney's campaign emphasized Mr. Ryan's youth and his family in its news release this morning.
"In April 2000, Ryan proposed to Janna Little, a native Oklahoman, at one of his favorite fishing spots, Big St. Germain Lake in Wisconsin. Later that year, the two were married in Oklahoma City," the release said.
It noted: "Upon entering Congress in January of 1999, Ryan was the youngest member of the freshmen class at the age of 28."
Young people are a key voting group in the upcoming election. Mr. Obama won big among young voters in 2008, but many of them now face a tough job market and the potential for disillusionment.
The image of the youthful Mr. Ryan may help the Republican ticket a bit.
- 
9:46 A.M. | Obama Campaign Reacts to Ryan Choice
Catastrophic. Reckless. Radical. 
The Obama campaign didn't waste much time in coming out swinging at Paul Ryan on Saturday morning. In a statement, the campaign manager Jim Messina slammed Mr. Ryan using those words - and more - to paint Mr. Ryan as the torch bearer for the Republican Party's far-right wing. 
There is no lost love between Mr. Obama and Mr. Ryan, of course. In April, Mr. Obama angered top Republicans when he denounced their budget, which was the brainchild of Mr. Ryan, as "thinly veiled social Darwinism."
Mr. Messina's full statement is below:
In naming Congressman Paul Ryan, Mitt Romney has chosen a leader of the House Republicans who shares his commitment to the flawed theory that new budget-busting tax cuts for the wealthy, while placing greater burdens on the middle class and seniors, will somehow deliver a stronger economy. The architect of the radical Republican House budget, Ryan, like Romney, proposed an additional $250,000 tax cut for millionaires, and deep cuts in education from Head Start to college aid. His plan also would end Medicare as we know it by turning it into a voucher system, shifting thousands of dollars in health care costs to seniors. As a member of Congress, Ryan rubber-stamped the reckless Bush economic policies that exploded our deficit and crashed our economy. Now the Romney-Ryan ticket would take us back by repeating the same, catastrophic mistakes."
- 
9:38 A.M. | Romney Introduces Ryan - With One Small Slip
Mitt Romney officially named Paul Ryan as his running mate, saying that "his leadership begins with character and values."
But at the end of his introduction, he tripped up, calling Mr. Ryan "the next president of the United States of America!"
He came back a few moments later to admit: "Every now and then I'm known to make a mistake" and to say Mr. Ryan would become the next vice president.
In introducing Mr. Ryan in front of the U.S.S. Wisconsin, Mr. Romney declared that "today we take another step forward in helping to restore the promise of America."
He said that Mr. Ryan would be part of his plan to "get America back to work" and hailed his "profound sense of responsibility."
"Paul is in public life for all of the right reasons," he said. "With energy and vision, Paul Ryan has become an intellectual leader of the Republican Party."
- 
9:33 A.M. | The Ryan-Palin Comparison
There is one way in which Paul Ryan is like Sarah Palin. Plenty of regular Americans will react to him by saying: "Who?"
A rising star in the Republican Party, Mr. Ryan is not a household name - much the way Ms. Palin was basically unknown when Senator John McCain of Arizona picked her to be his running mate.
But in lots of other ways, he's totally different.
Mr. Ryan is a creature of Washington, well-known by the power brokers in the capital. Most of them had never met Ms. Palin before Mr. McCain thrust her onto the stage.
The new Republican vice-presidential candidate is also known as a policy wonk, used to diving deep into the complicated details of the budget.
And Mr. Ryan has plenty of experience in the national media spotlight, having appeared repeatedly on Sunday morning news programs where he has been grilled on his budget proposals.
That's something that Ms. Palin did not have.
But in some ways, the choice of Mr. Ryan is not that dissimilar. In both cases, the candidate at the top of the ticket was looking to excite the conservative base of the party, something Mr. Ryan is likely to do.
And in both cases, there were risks - Ms. Palin because of her inexperience; Mr. Ryan because of the budget that he has pushed his party to embrace.
- 
9:20 A.M. | Republican Ticket Lacks Foreign Policy Experience
In Paul Ryan, Republicans have chosen vice-presidential candidate with very little foreign policy experience.
That leaves the 2012 Republican ticket without someone who has a long history of experience with the kinds of national security issues that the next president will face.
Mr. Ryan is a sharp contrast to Dick Cheney, who was chosen as George W. Bush's vice-presidential nominee in 2000 after having served as secretary of defense.
In 1992, it was the top of the ticket - George H. W. Bush - who had the foreign policy experience. The elder Mr. Bush had been director of the Central Intelligence Agency and an ambassador to the United Nations.
Will the lack of foreign policy experience matter? 
Domestic issues are likely to dominate the rest of the campaign, especially now that Mr. Romney has chosen Mr. Ryan.
But Mr. Romney's trip abroad last month was a reminder that American people expect their leaders to be able to confront effectively the difficult global issues that face the country. Mr. Romney was criticized for several gaffes while on the trip. 
And the Republican ticket faces Democratic opponents who will claim foreign policy successes and experience, including the killing of Osama bin Laden and the winding down of two unpopular wars.
- 
9:13 A.M. | A Closer Look at the Ryan Budget
Representative Paul D. Ryan has proposed huge changes in entitlement programs like Medicare and Medicaid, which insure more than 100 million people and account for more than one-fifth of the federal budget.
The changes would help the federal government predict and control its costs, but could shift some costs to beneficiaries and to states.
The Republican-controlled House has twice approved Mr. Ryan's proposals as part of budget blueprints, but the Senate has rejected them.
Democrats see Mr. Ryan's plan for Medicare as a political gift. In automated telephone calls and radio advertisements, the Democratic Party has accused Republicans of favoring "millionaires over Medicare."
Medicaid and Medicare are now open-ended entitlements. Anyone who meets the eligibility criteria is entitled to benefits defined in detail by federal law. Spending increases automatically with health costs, the number of beneficiaries and the amount of care they receive.
Mr. Ryan would change the nature of the entitlement under both programs. He would convert the federal share of Medicaid into a block grant. The federal government would give each state a lump sum of money to care for low-income people. States would also be given much more discretion over use of the money.
Mr. Ryan would repeal President Obama's health care law, which calls for the expansion of Medicaid to cover many more people.
To rein in Medicare costs, Mr. Ryan proposes fundamental changes in the structure of the program: The federal government would contribute a fixed amount of money on behalf of each beneficiary, and future beneficiaries could use the money to buy private insurance or to help pay for traditional Medicare. 
In addition, the growth of Medicare would be capped. In general, spending would not be allowed to increase more than the growth of the economy, plus one-half of one percentage point - a slower rate of increase than Medicare has historically experienced.
Analyzing a slightly different version of Mr. Ryan's proposal last year, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said that "most elderly people would pay more for their health care." The additional costs, averaging perhaps $6,400 for a typical beneficiary in 2022, would require older Americans to "reduce their use of health care services, spend less on other goods and services, or save more in advance of retirement," the report said. 
Mr. Ryan has tweaked his Medicare proposal in the last year, but Democrats are sure to cite the budget office report. 
Under his proposal, Mr. Ryan said, "there would be no disruptions" in the traditional Medicare program for people who are currently enrolled or become eligible in the next 10 years.
Democrats say Mr. Ryan's plan would destroy Medicare. He says it would save the program, whose hospital insurance trust fund is expected to run out of money in 2024.
- 
9:09 A.M. | Portman Reacts to Choice of Ryan
How do you react when everyone thought you were going to be the vice-presidential pick and then, all of a sudden, you're not? 
Graciously.
Senator Rob Portman of Ohio issued the following statement this morning, less than a day after receiving a telephone call from Mitt Romney informing him that he was not on the ticket.
"Mitt Romney has made a great choice in Paul Ryan. He is an accomplished public servant and a leading voice on the most pressing issues facing our country," Mr. Portman said in a statement. "Paul is one of my best friends in Congress and someone I have worked closely with as a former colleague on the House Ways & Means Committee."
Sources close to Mr. Portman said he would remain in Ohio Saturday, appearing at a bike race to raise money for cancer instead of alongside Mr. Romney.
"Jane and I wish Paul and Janna and their kids the very best," Mr. Portman added in the statement. "I look forward to working closely with a Romney-Ryan Administration to restore fiscal sanity and enact pro-growth policies to create jobs."
- 
9:03 A.M. | When Did Romney Make Decision?
NORFOLK, Va. - Mr. Romney chose Mr. Ryan as his running mate over a week and a half ago, on Aug. 1, aides to the governor confirmed today. What do we know about that day? It was a Wednesday. Mr. Romney had just returned from his trip abroad to Israel, England and Poland. And he was in Boston. Beyond that, his decision-making remains shrouded in secrecy. 
There may be a strategic reason for the campaign is acknowledging the date of his choice. In the past week, public pressure from conservatives to choose Mr. Ryan has steadily intensified. Mr. Romney is sensitive to the perception that he acts at the behest of the party's right wing. Now, he is making the case that he had settled on Mr. Ryan well before a chorus of conservatives told him to.
- 
8:58 A.M. | Choice Could Lead to Fight for Ryan's Seat
Mr. Ryan could theoretically run for re-election to an eighth term in the House even as he campaigns alongside Mr. Romney for the White House.
In 2000, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut continued to appear on the ballot as a Senate candidate even as he ran as Al Gore's vice-presidential candidate. When he lost the White House race, he returned to the Senate.
But Mr. Ryan is less likely to make the same decision, which would be seen as a lack of confidence in the outcome of Mr. Romney's White House bid.
Instead, Democrats are likely to make a big push to pick up Mr. Ryan's seat.
- 
8:51 A.M. | In Speech, Ryan to Promise to Take on Challenges 
Paul Ryan will pledge to help restore "the dreams and greatness of this country" in his remarks accepting Mitt Romney's invitation to join the Republican White House ticket on Saturday morning.
"Following four years of failed leadership, the hopes of our country, which have inspired the world, are growing dim; and they need someone to revive them," he plans to say, according to excerpts released by the campaign. "Governor Romney is the man for this moment; and he and I share one commitment."
In his remarks, Mr. Ryan paints a bleak picture of the economic situation that the country faces, saying that "we find ourselves in a nation facing debt, doubt and despair. This is the worst economic recovery in 70 years."
Like the man he will join on the ticket, Mr. Ryan will blame Mr. Obama as failing to take a bad situation and make it better.
"High unemployment, declining incomes and crushing debt is not a new normal," Mr. Ryan will say. "It's the result of misguided policies. And next January, our economy will begin a comeback with the Romney Plan for a Stronger Middle Class that will lead to more jobs and more take home pay for working Americans."
During his remarks, Mr. Ryan will heap praise on Mr. Romney's experience at Bain Capital, running the Olympics and as governor of Massachusetts. Mr. Ryan calls his new political partner a "man of achievement, excellence and integrity." 
But his main message will be to promise that the new "comeback team" on the Republican ticket will turn around the country's economy by embracing - not avoiding - the tough challenges.
"We won't duck the tough issues, we will lead!" he will say. "We won't blame others, we will take responsibility! We won't replace our founding principles, we will reapply them!"
He will conclude his speech on an optimistic note, saying that "We can turn this thing around. Real solutions can be delivered. But, it will take leadership. And the courage to tell you the truth."
He adds: "Mitt Romney is this kind of leader. I'm excited for what lies ahead, and I'm thrilled to be a part of America's Comeback Team. And together, we will unite America and get this done."
- 
8:48 A.M. | Battleship Has Symbolism Beyond Name
NORFOLK, Va. - So why the U.S.S Wisconsin? The obvious explanation for using the hulking battleship as the backdrop for the vice-presidential announcement is that Mr. Ryan is from the State of Wisconsin. But the first speaker here Saturday, Representative J. Randy Forbes of Virginia, telegraphed a bigger theme: protecting the military budget. In his remarks, Mr. Forbes called for Washington to "stop dismantling" the America's armed forces. It is a theme that Mr. Romney has hit on repeatedly on the campaign trail, where he argues that President Obama's budgets threaten to dilute America's military might. The decision to hold the announcement here signals that this line of attack is likely to intensify in coming weeks.
- 
8:46 A.M. | Campaign Tight-Lipped About Choice
Mitt Romney's campaign team has been far from perfect. But when it came to keeping the vice-presidential pick secret, team members were nearly flawless.
Mr. Romney was disciplined throughout, never giving any hint of what he was thinking. And his aides - led by confidant Beth Myers - were equally circumspect.
Despite the efforts of an increasingly restive national press corps over the last several weeks, Mr. Romney's team did not leak at all. 
In fact, the idea that Mr. Ryan might be the leading contender had not really emerged until the last several days. Conventional wisdom had been that Senator Rob Portman of Ohio was in front.
One thing that didn't go quite how they expected? The "Mitt's VP" iPhone app, which promised those who downloaded that they would know before reporters.
"Check back often and enable push notifications to get the exciting news before the press and just about everyone else (except maybe Ann)," the app said.
In fact, word did start leaking out very late Friday night - from the press, not from the app.
- 
8:41 A.M. | Battle to Define Candidate ... With Signs
Democrats may have won the early sign war. Even before a Romney-Ryan sign has been seen in public, the Democratic National Committee was distributing signs in Norfolk, Va., where Mr. Ryan will be introduced.
 "Ryan: Yes to Millionaires, No to Medicare," the yellow signs say.
- 
8:37 A.M. | Paul Ryan, Congressional Idol
For the 87 Republican freshmen, Mr. Ryan, though younger than many of his party's leaders in the House, has served as a mentor and a bit of an idol, both for his budgeting prowess and because, they often say, he is just cool.
Several of the male members - who make up the vast majority of Republican freshmen - boast about having their lockers near Mr. Ryan's in the House gym, and often wander into his office for a consult on how to vote on a bill.
In interviews with many of them over the last two years, at least a dozen have cited Mr. Ryan as the person whose Congressional career they would most like to emulate.
Unlike some committee chairmen, who swagger through the marble hallways of Capitol Hill flanked by staff members and looking for reporters to vent to, Mr. Ryan cuts a less unimposing figure, gliding casually, ears plugged with iPod headphones blasting heavy metal, more like he is on his way to calculus class than to the House chamber to vote.
Mr. Ryan has spent many hours mentoring House freshmen, holding numerous listening sessions, for example, on his budget plan to make sure they understood it and were on board. Many came to see it as the defining document of the 112th Congress, and continued to use it as a blueprint after other spending numbers were agreed to under the deal to lift the debt ceiling.
His tutoring has extended to the House gym, where he is famously fond of hard workouts, and inspired other less-fit members to do the same.
- 
8:33 A.M. | Vice-Presidential Debate Prep
The vice-presidential debate in Kentucky on Oct. 11 was supposed to be a sleepy affair. 
No longer.
Mr. Romney's selection of Mr. Ryan as his vice-presidential choice sets up a generational and intellectual clash with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. that could prove as interesting as the three face-offs between the men at the top of the ticket.
At 42, Mr. Ryan is nearly three decades Mr. Biden's junior. In some ways, he is a young, brash version of Mr. Biden, who himself joined Congress at a young age. The men are articulate and wonkish and appeal to a working-class audience.
But they are also a study in contrasts. Mr. Biden's expertise is in foreign policy, an area that the Obama team will no doubt try to exploit given Mr. Ryan's relative inexperience in that area.
Mr. Ryan is a budget guy, with a command of the economic numbers and the budget details that will contrast sharply with Mr. Biden's more generalist approach.
Expect the debate to be fierce and played out in part on the issue of Medicare, where both candidates are passionate. Mr. Biden can be aggressive, and will almost certainly go after Mr. Ryan on his proposals to change the retirement system for seniors.
But Mr. Ryan is no shrinking violet. He is used to the national stage, having thrust himself into the limelight with his controversial budget proposals during the past several years.
- 
8:23 A.M. | Obama and the Ryan Plan
Want to know how President Obama and the Democrats will frame the debate against Mr. Romney and Mr. Ryan? 
This may be all you need to read: Remarks by Mr. Obama at George Washington University in April of 2013.
In the fiery speech, Mr. Obama sought to rhetorically dismantle Mr. Ryan's budget, calling the goals it embraces "worthy," but saying that it paints a "deeply pessimistic" picture of the nation's future.
"It's a vision that says if our roads crumble and our bridges collapse, we can't afford to fix them," Mr. Obama said. "If there are bright young Americans who have the drive and the will but not the money to go to college, we can't afford to send them."
Mr. Obama gave the speech at George Washington University, not far from the White House and the Capitol. And he gave it with a stone-faced Mr. Ryan sitting in the audience.
At the time, White House aides described it as one of the most substantive efforts by the administration to contrast Mr. Obama's economic and fiscal vision with that of the Republicans.
Now, it becomes the framework for the substantive economic argument against the Republican ticket.
- 
8:11 A.M. | Democrats Ready for Ryan
Are Democrats ready for Paul Ryan?
The attack machine is already churning, and some liberals are chomping at the bit to go after the new Republican team.
A Democratic political organization called American Bridge 21st Century has already developed a 290-page opposition research dossier on Mr. Ryan that it published (along with similar ones for the other hopefuls) on its Web site.
The site argues that "In every race across the country, the Ryan budget plan is the albatross that hangs around the neck of Republican candidates. So why not set the task of defending the plan to the architect himself, Paul Ryan."
On Saturday morning, Democrats quickly started posting on Twitter their intention to use the Medicare issue to attack the new Republican ticket and Republican Congressional candidates.
Jesse Ferguson, a spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, wrote: "The past becomes the future? NYT (5/24/11): 'Democrat Wins G.O.P. Seat; Rebuke Seen to Medicare Plan' nyti.ms/lJ8tAs.
The American Bridge document promises: "With Ryan at his side, there's no etch-a-sketching Romney's support for a plan that would end Medicare as we know it, cause seniors to pay more out of their pocket for health care, and cost America millions of jobs over the next two years."
- 
7:59 A.M. | Wisconsin in Play?
By picking Mr. Ryan, a Wisconsin congressman, to be his running mate, Mr. Romney has added to the growing sense that Wisconsin is at the center of the nation's political universe.
The state played host to a bitter and divisive debate over union rights last year, leading to a nationally watched recall effort by unions of the state's Republican governor, Scott Walker.
That effort failed, and Mr. Walker retained his governorship. His victory increased hopes among Republicans that the victory would make Wisconsin competitive in the presidential campaign.
It may still be a stretch for the new ticket. Democrats have won Wisconsin in each of the last presidential contests since 1988, though just barely in the last two contests.
Mr. Ryan's presence on the ticket suggests that the Romney campaign may make a new push to win the state and its 10 electoral votes. So far, the campaigns have not spent a significant amount of money in television ads in the state.
- 
7:05 A.M. | Romney Chooses Paul Ryan as Running Mate
Mitt Romney has chosen Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin to be his running mate and is set to introduce him on Saturday morning in Norfolk, Va., aides said, a selection that shakes up the presidential race and presents a Republican ticket that offers a clear choice for voters in November.
Mr. Romney is set to announce his selection after touring the battleship U.S.S. Wisconsin around 9 a.m., the campaign said, ending a four-month search for a running mate. The announcement opens a four-day tour through four critical battleground states, with Mr. Romney and Mr. Ryan poised to travel together to kick off the debut of their new partnership.
The selection of Mr. Ryan, 42, was kept secret until late Friday night when the campaign announced that Mr. Romney would use the bus tour to disclose his vice-presidential candidate. A confidant of Mr. Ryan's confirmed in an interview that the congressman was en route to Virginia and the Web site, RomneyRyan.com, directed visitors on Saturday morning to Mr. Romney's campaign site.
- 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (95%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); WRITERS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); MEDICARE (64%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (60%); BUDGETS (50%) The Caucus

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (94%); MITT ROMNEY (93%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012



387 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: A Closer Look at the Ryan Budget

BYLINE: ROBERT PEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Representative Paul D. Ryan's proposed changes to entitlement programs would help the federal government predict and control its costs, but could shift some costs to beneficiaries and to states. 

 BODY:
Representative Paul D. Ryan has proposed huge changes in entitlement programs like Medicare and Medicaid, which insure more than 100 million people and account for more than one-fifth of the federal budget.
The changes would help the federal government predict and control its costs, but could shift some costs to beneficiaries and to states.
The Republican-controlled House has twice approved Mr. Ryan's proposals as part of budget blueprints, but the Senate has rejected them.
Democrats see Mr. Ryan's plan for Medicare as a political gift. In automated telephone calls and radio advertisements, the Democratic Party has accused Republicans of favoring "millionaires over Medicare."
Medicaid and Medicare are now open-ended entitlements. Anyone who meets the eligibility criteria is entitled to benefits defined in detail by federal law. Spending increases automatically with health costs, the number of beneficiaries and the amount of care they receive.
Mr. Ryan would change the nature of the entitlement under both programs. He would convert the federal share of Medicaid into a block grant. The federal government would give each state a lump sum of money to care for low-income people. States would also be given much more discretion over use of the money.
Mr. Ryan would repeal President Obama's health care law, which calls for the expansion of Medicaid to cover many more people.
To rein in Medicare costs, Mr. Ryan proposes fundamental changes in the structure of the program: The federal government would contribute a fixed amount of money on behalf of each beneficiary, and future beneficiaries could use the money to buy private insurance or to help pay for traditional Medicare.
In addition, the growth of Medicare would be capped. In general, spending would not be allowed to increase more than the growth of the economy, plus one-half of one percentage point - a slower rate of increase than Medicare has historically experienced.
Analyzing a slightly different version of Mr. Ryan's proposal last year, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said that "most elderly people would pay more for their health care." The additional costs, averaging perhaps $6,400 for a typical beneficiary in 2022, would require older Americans to "reduce their use of health care services, spend less on other goods and services, or save more in advance of retirement," the report said.
Mr. Ryan has tweaked his Medicare proposal in the last year, but Democrats are sure to cite the budget office report.
Under his proposal, Mr. Ryan said, "there would be no disruptions" in the traditional Medicare program for people who are currently enrolled or become eligible in the next 10 years.
Democrats say Mr. Ryan's plan would destroy Medicare. He says it would save the program, whose hospital insurance trust fund is expected to run out of money in 2024.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (91%); BUDGETS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); POLITICS (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); AGING (61%); MEDICAID (58%); RADIO ADVERTISING (55%) Ryan, Paul D Jr; Federal Budget (US); Medicare; Presidential Election of 2012; The Caucus

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (94%); BARACK OBAMA (56%) Ryan, Paul D Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012



388 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: What Europe Thinks of Paul Ryan

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: Bold but risky, cautious but clever. The European press was mulling what it thought on Saturday of Mitt Romney's choice of Paul D. Ryan as his running mate. Mostly they explained, "Paul who." 

 BODY:
LONDON - Bold but risky, cautious but clever. The European press was mulling what it thought on Saturday of Mitt Romney's choice of Paul D. Ryan as his Republican vice-presidential running mate.
Much of the coverage went on answering the question "Paul who?" for the benefit of a public unfamiliar with the Wisconsin legislator.
"A Tea Party hero," Ewan MacAskill of Britain's Guardian wrote from Washington, in a phrase certain to send a chill through readers of the left-of-center daily.
A "dynamite choice", said France's left-leaning Libration, opining that Mr. Ryan's candidacy for vice president was a daring decision that would either pump more air into the Romney campaign or sink it for good.
Spain's left-wing Pblico explained that Mr. Ryan was the "ideologue" behind plans to slash the public deficit, a hot issue in Spain and elsewhere in the euro zone where governments face opposition to budget-cutting austerity programs.
"The ideologue in question is just another dangerous sociopath who wants to dismantle social welfare in his state," was a representative reaction from one Spanish reader.
Germany's Deutsche Welle noted that Mr. Ryan had openly criticized Europe's handling of the debt crisis and its austerity measures. 
It quoted Christian Lammert, an expert on U.S. politics at Berlin's Free University, as saying he was surprised by the choice. 
"Ryan's views on economic and tax policy are very radical, so I'm not sure if he's a good choice for targeting independent voters," Mr. Lammert said. "But at the same time, Ryan might be good for attracting the right-wing Republican voters and mobilizing them."
A Pew Research survey in June showed confidence in President Obama remained especially high in Europe, despite an overall decline in his international support.
Some recall Mr. Romney's victory speech after the New Hampshire primary when he said of Mr. Obama: "This President takes his inspiration from the capitals of Europe; we look to the cities and small towns of America."
Tim Stanley, a historian of the United States blogging for Britain's right-wing Daily Telegraph, was upbeat about Mr. Ryan joining Mr. Romney in the race. "Together they will surely create the best looking ticket since Clinton/Gore in 1992," he wrote.
Mark Mardell, the BBC's North America editor said the choice would elevate the tone of the debate. "But it will be slightly weird to have a VP pick who is more interesting than the candidate, and whose ideas are the ones being debated."

        
Olympic Games Trump Romney Visit to Britain
        
What's the Matter With Kansas? ... What's the Matter With Wall St.?
        
Osama Bin Laden Joins the U.S. Presidential Race
        
Inside Republican Primary Zaniness, Actual Debate
        
U.S. Presidents With Business Acumen? Name One

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); EURO ZONE (75%); OLYMPICS (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); HISTORY (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%) 2012 U.S. Presidential Election; Mitt Romney; Paul Ryan; Ryan, Paul D Jr; Presidential Election of 2012; View From Europe

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE WELLE (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4822 TELEGRAPH & OTHER MESSAGE COMMUNICATIONS (55%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (94%); MITT ROMNEY (92%); BILL CLINTON (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) Ryan, Paul D Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); SPAIN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2012



389 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Obama Signs Law Exempting Many Appointees From Senate Approval

BYLINE: PETER BAKER


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama signed legislation exempting scores of government positions from Senate confirmation, which may ease a backlog that has left many government agencies without presidential appointees for months at a time. 

 BODY:
A backlog that has left many government agencies without presidential appointees for months at a time may ease a bit because President Obama signed legislation on Friday exempting scores of government positions from Senate confirmation.
Under the new law, 166 senior government officials will no longer have to win Senate approval, allowing the president to put them in place as soon as he has made his selections. Supporters of the change said it would speed the formation of a new administration when a president takes office and allow the Senate to focus on positions of greater consequence.
The appointment and confirmation process has slowed considerably in modern times as more and more positions have been subjected to Senate scrutiny. The number of senior government posts requiring Senate confirmation has grown from 280 to 1,400 in the last half century, and the average confirmation time has increased to more than 10 months from two and a half months, according to No Labels, a bipartisan advocacy group that has urged reforms.
The new law, introduced last year by Senator Charles E. Schumer, a New York Democrat, had the support of both the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, and the minority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky. The Senate passed it last summer 79 to 20, with all the dissenters being Republican.
The proposal then lingered for more than a year in the Republican-controlled House as some conservatives expressed concern that Congress would be surrendering power to the executive branch. The better solution, critics said, was to streamline the Senate review process.
 "Congress should not relinquish the Senate's constitutional duty to consent unless it concludes that such a check is of no value because the office itself is of too little or no authority or consequence," which was not the case with the positions listed in the bill, the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research organization, argued on its Web site. "Lawmakers concerned about the pace of the nomination process should look inward."
But when the House took up the measure on July 31, it drew bipartisan support, with some Republicans perhaps looking ahead to a possible Mitt Romney administration come January.
"There is little dispute that the current nominations process has grown too cumbersome and complicated, in some cases discouraging qualified individuals from seeking leadership positions," Representative Jason Chaffetz, a Utah Republican, said on the House floor. On average, he said, just 35 of the 100 most critical positions were filled within the first 100 days of a new administration.
The House passed the bill 261 to 116. All but one of the nay votes came from Republicans.
The measure will not solve the long delays in the nomination process for most top positions, which remain subject to Senate votes. Even before nominations get to the Senate these days, they have typically been delayed by extensive and lengthy vetting by the administration itself, wary of past scandals that have torpedoed would-be senior officials. But the new law may help Cabinet secretaries and agency directors fill out their teams faster.
Many of the newly exempted positions are not for policymakers but assistant secretaries for public affairs, legislative affairs or management. Among the other positions now excluded are the director of the Selective Service, members of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, the chief scientist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the chief medical officer at the Department of Homeland Security, the director of the Bureau of Justice Statistics, the deputy administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration and the treasurer of the United States.
 Also now freed of Senate approval are the appointment or promotions for 2,536 members of the Public Health Service and 319 members of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration officer corps, which generally have been voted on as a block.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); WEB SITES (50%) Obama, Barack; Appointments and Executive Changes; United States Politics and Government; House of Representatives; Senate; United States; The 44th President

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Senate

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%); JASON CHAFFETZ (57%); HARRY REID (57%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012



390 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths HEINEMAN, BEN W.

 BODY:
HEINEMAN--Ben W.,Sr. Ben W. Heineman Sr., of Chicago, died on August 5, 2012, at age 98. He was revered as a giant of his generation--a brilliant lawyer, a far-sighted businessman, an adviser to presidents, governors and mayors, a prominent Chicago leader, a deeply committed supporter of opera and symphony, an influential trustee of the University of Chicago, and a world-class collector of contemporary glass. These and many other accomplishments reflected a person of extraordinary character, integrity and, independence, whose life truly deserved the phrases "business statesman" and "Renaissance man." He was a warm, witty, wise and caring counselor to many and, ultimately, an exemplary citizen of his city, his state, and his country. 
Ben was born in Wausau, Wisconsin, on February 10, 1914, six months before the start of World War I, the son of Walter Benjamin and Elsie Brunswick Heineman. After his family lost all its money in 1929, he attended the University of Michigan from 1930 to 1933 and then Northwestern Law School, graduating in 1936 at the top of his class and as the editor of the law review. His legal career spanned the next 20 years. He was a leading corporate lawyer in Chicago. Ben had deep friendships with the faculty at the University of Chicago law school (especially then-Dean Edward Levi, later University President). With professors and practitioners, he helped write the first version of the Uniform Commercial Code, a pillar of American law. During World War II, he served as assistant general counsel in the Office of Price Administration and then as assistant director of the North African Economic board. In 1951, Governor Adlai E. Stevenson appointed him special assistant attorney general to investigate Illinois' cigarette tax fraud. In 1952, he worked on the Stevenson Presidential campaign, drafting the Stevenson speech sharply criticizing Sen. Joseph McCarthy. In 1956, he was named CEO of the Chicago and Northwestern Railway after he led a successful proxy fight for dissident shareholders. He became a leading American businessman, as a dramatic innovator in a traditional industry, modernizing operating methods, reshaping labor relations, turning Chicago's commuter rail service into an acclaimed model for the nation, seeking de-regulation and greater competition. In 1968, he transformed the railway into a conglomerate, Northwest Industries, with industrial and consumer components. In 1972, he sold the railroad to its employees who benefited from the sale. Ben retired as CEO of Northwest in 1985, at age 71, having demonstrated the controversial conglomerate form of business could succeed with strong central resource allocation and decentralized responsibility. During his 30 years in business he also took on many governmental assignments. He served President Lyndon Johnson in numerous capacities, including chairman of the White House Conference on Civil Rights (1966); President's Task Force on Government Organization (1966-67); President's Commission on Income Maintenance Programs (1968). A "Man in the News" article in the New York Times called him "a can-do man with a conscience." He chaired the Illinois Board of Higher Education from 1962-69, developing master plans approved ultimately by the state legislature. In 1966, at the height of racial tension, Mayor Richard Daley appointed him chair of the Chicago Civil Rights Summit Conference on Fair Housing. But he turned down federal Cabinet positions and requests to run for public office, preferring to take on ad hoc assignments and retain his base as a private civic leader. He was a leading (and then life) trustee of the University of Chicago, of the Art Institute of Chicago, the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and the Chicago Lyric Opera. He also served on many other corporate and charitable boards. The great foundation of Ben's life was his beloved wife, Natalie Goldstein Heineman, a national leader in child welfare services. They married on April 17, 1935. She died on February 28, 2010, just shy of their 75th wedding anniversary. As a couple, they exemplified civic commitment. They were also great adventurers and world travelers, e.g. sailing alone, into their early 80s, on their 62-foot sailboat along the beautiful but desolate North shore of Lake Superior. Ben loved cars, skiing, skeet shooting, photography, woodworking, computers (he was one of the first CEOs to have a desk-top) and reading. They were deeply attached to their summer home in Door County, Wisconsin, on a 200-foot limestone cliff looking westward over Green Bay, where they often welcomed friends and family. One of their greatest adventures after Ben's retirement was assembling one of the nation's largest and finest private collections of contemporary studio glass. In 2006, Ben and Natalie gave the entire collection, valued at nearly $10 million, to the Corning Museum of Glass in Corning, New York, where all 240 objects by 87 international artists will be shown permanently on a rotating basis. Ben is survived by his daughter Dr. Martha Heineman Pieper (Dr. William Pieper) of Chicago and their children: Thalia Field (Jamie Jewett and son Benjamin), Dr. Jessica Heineman-Pieper (Dr. Param Srikantia), Johanna Heineman-Pieper, and Victoria Stein (Jotham Stein and son Gershon). He is also survived by his son, Ben W. Heineman, Jr. (Cristine Russell) of New Canaan, CT and their sons Zachary Heineman and Matthew Heineman. There will be a private family service. In lieu of flowers, donations in the name of Ben W. Heineman Sr. can be made to The Natalie G. Heineman Smart Love Pre-school, 800 W. Buena Avenue, Chicago, IL 60613 or online at www.smartlovefamily.org/ contribute.php.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL LAW (77%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (74%); WORLD WAR I (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (69%); UNIFORM COMMERCIAL CODE (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); WORLD WAR II (68%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (68%); TAX FRAUD (68%); TAX LAW (67%); DEREGULATION (65%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (63%); SHAREHOLDERS (61%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (76%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); WAUSAU, WI, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2012



391 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; THE BLOG; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: NV200 Taxi Poised to Do London Duty

BYLINE: By PHIL PATTON

 BODY:
THE Nissan NV200 van, the same model chosen to be New York's Taxi of Tomorrow, will also enter service in London.In its new livery, the NV200 seems instantly more dignified and solid than its yellow cousin. Call it a rolling testament to the power of black paint. 
Nissan says the van, with sliding doors and seating for five, meets all requirements, however esoteric, laid down by London's transport office. Among these is a 25-foot turning radius that, like so many things British, is grounded in legend and custom, ostensibly deriving from the dimensions of the tight rotary at the entrance to the Savoy Hotel.
Though some advocates for disabled passengers in New York criticized the Nissan model for lacking a full-scale wheelchair ramp, advocacy groups in London have endorsed the new design, according to a news release from Nissan.
As in New York, Nissan plans a field test next year of purely electric versions of the taxi.
Unlike its American counterpart, the London cab uses a diesel power plant. The New York version will have a 2-liter 4-cylinder gasoline engine. Nissan says the 1.5-liter London engine will be 50 percent more fuel-efficient than the city's traditional black cabs.
In America, opposition to diesel emissions remains strong. The World Health Organization recently classified diesel fumes a carcinogen.
Nissan has long built diesel engines for the London taxis, and the company said it expected the predicted reductions in carbon emissions and improvements in fuel economy to win over the skeptics.
The new engine would enable Mayor Boris Johnson, whose administration has already updated the Routemaster double-decker bus, to present the new taxi as part of his air quality improvement program.
''Improving air quality in London is one of the most important challenges I face as mayor,'' Mr. Johnson said in the statement issued by Nissan. ''I am absolutely delighted that manufacturers are stepping up to the plate and are responding to the challenge I set in my air quality strategy to reduce taxi emissions and improve efficiency.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PAINT IT BLACK: The Nissan NV200 London Taxi. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NISSAN NORTH AMERICA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIESEL FUEL (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (87%); AIR QUALITY (86%); SPECIAL NEEDS TRANSPORTATION (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); POWER PLANTS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); GREENHOUSE GASES (65%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (52%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (52%); CARCINOGENS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: BORIS JOHNSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (95%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012



392 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; FIELD NOTES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: The Smaller, Cheaper, Just-for-Us Wedding

BYLINE: By HELAINE OLEN

 BODY:
RUBY DEE PHILIPPA's first wedding took place in 2000. It was elaborate, so much so that she estimated that her in-laws spent several thousand dollars on flowers alone. The marriage, she said, lasted less than a year.So when the time came to do it again, Ms. Philippa, 47, a former restaurant owner, author of ''Ruby's Juke Joint Americana Cookbook'' and lead singer in the rockabilly band Ruby Dee and the Snakehandlers, went in the other direction. She and Jorge Harada, 43, a librarian and guitarist for the group, went to a justice of the peace one Friday in April 2011.
And for the reception? The couple gave a barbecue the next day in their backyard in Austin, Tex. Invitations went out via Evite. Guests brought the food, drinks, dishes, grills, pillows and chairs.
''It was a picnic, really,'' Ms. Philippa said. ''No one had to dress up. They could come in shorts or they could put on nice clothes.'' 
More than a decade after the term ''bridezilla'' entered the lexicon, two years after the wedding of Chelsea Clinton set her parents back by an estimated $2 million to $5 million, almost a year after Kim Kardashian and Kris Humphries spent a rumored $10 million to celebrate what turned out to be a mere 10 weeks of marriage, and even as shows like ''Say Yes to the Dress'' remain popular, a small but growing number of brides and grooms are opting to downsize.
The lower-key wedding, if still a bit unexpected, is having a moment, thanks in no small part to May's surprise backyard wedding of the Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan, with fewer than 100 guests and catering from two local restaurants in Palo Alto, Calif.
Turning to everything from public parks to the living rooms of friends and family, couples are recreating the traditional wedding one ceremony at a time.
Over at the wedding site Offbeatbride.com, the publisher, Ariel M. Stallings, said the number of visitors to her Simple Wedding archive has grown since the Zuckerberg-Chan event from 275 hits a week to more than 600.
The Wedding Report, a market research firm, has been tracking the change, noting that in the last year, couples participating in the company's surveys have increasingly reported a desire for ''fun, romantic, simple, casual and unique weddings.''
Vendors concur.
''The backyard is the new ballroom,'' said Amy Kaneko, an events planner in San Francisco.
Stacy Scott, a caterer in Marin County, Calif., added, ''I think people are waking up to the insanity that is the wedding market.''
The experts say these more-intimate and often lower-cost affairs have been brought about by the intersection of a number of trends.
First is the relentlessly downbeat economy. The average wedding now costs more than $27,000, according to TheKnot.com and WeddingChannel.com, with costs running significantly higher in regions like the Bay Area and New York City. But homespun celebrations come with substantially lower price tags.
Second is the ages of brides and grooms, now at record highs of 26.5 for women and 28.5 for men. Couples often find themselves coordinating their special day in the midst of other work and family commitments.
''We are busy and we have jobs,'' said Rosa Brooks, 42, a professor at Georgetown University Law Center, who married Lt. Col. Joseph Mouer, 44, in her backyard in Alexandria, Va., on June 15. The planning took all of two weeks, and included asking the bride's mother, the journalist and social critic Barbara Ehrenreich, to handle the catering, which was done by calling a restaurant, the Lebanese Taverna.
The couple had 14 family members in attendance -- 16 if you count Ms. Brooks's hound-lab mix, Zoe, and her father's golden retriever. Play equipment and soccer balls belonging to Ms. Brooks's daughters, Anna, 10, and Clara, 7, are in the background in photos.
''For us, it was like a dinner party, but with a ring and someone to marry you,'' Ms. Brooks said.
Katie Schneiber, 28, was on vacation in Paris this last April when Russell Hill, 31, her boyfriend of five months, flew over with a surprise proposal. Ms. Schneiber ecstatically said yes, and then recalled that she needed to move to the Washington area within two months, since she was to begin a residency in psychiatry at George Washington University in July.
Instead of planning an elaborate wedding while Ms. Schneiber was in the midst of a grueling work schedule, the couple decided to marry before it began. Family friends from New Canaan, Conn., where she grew up, offered the couple the use of their backyard. There was no time to order bridesmaid dresses, so Ms. Schneiber instructed the 10 friends she asked to stand with her to wear navy dresses with coral colored shawls she found online at Urban Outfitters for $18.
Rather than holding one giant event, Ms. Schneiber and Mr. Hill married in a small ceremony in a Mormon temple in New York City on June 2. They then headed to New Canaan, where they had a party for 150 friends; a number of guests (not to mention the bride and groom) changed into bathing suits and jumped into the pool.
The total cost: $6,000, a sum that did not include a second party Mr. Hill's family gave near their Utah home in July, which included a chili cook-off and square dancing, as a tribute to Mr. Hill's late father, who was an amateur square-dance caller.
All of this points to another trend that those in the business say is influencing the new wedding culture. Millennials want to do it their way, and that preference is affecting the ceremonies of all brides and grooms, no matter their ages.
According to business experts, even at fancier, fussier and more formal weddings, rustic barns are now favored over traditional catering halls, while wildflowers often supplant roses as centerpieces.
''It's just a shift in taste,'' Ms. Kaneko said.
Some people are so determined to buck the expectation that a wedding is an event that they neglect to inform their guests ( la Zuckerberg and Chan) that the party they have been invited to is going to include a ceremony.
The surprise wedding, planners say, is a way of avoiding everything from drawn-out planning to making sure friends and family do not stress out about gifts, dress codes or other traditional wedding flash points.
''There is a real focus on the guest experience right now, and this is the ultimate for a guest,'' said Rebecca Dolgin, executive editor of TheKnot.
That was the tack taken by Mickey and Cassie Luckoff. The couple, who married in 2010, surprised the guests who came to their Marin County home for a gathering the Saturday after Thanksgiving by announcing that they were about to witness an exchange of vows.
''I like to do the unexpected,'' said Ms. Luckoff, 60.
Her husband, 76, added, ''The only clue we provided was a silver balloon at the front door.''
The new approach also includes no small amount of assist from online crafts sites. Tatyana Lapson, 30, who married her husband Michael, 31, last August in an outdoor ceremony at Bohemian Hall and Beer Garden in Astoria, Queens, was one such bride, buying banners that said ''love'' on the Web site Etsy to decorate trees.
For her bouquet, she went to the flower district in Manhattan and put it together herself, tying it with a piece of lace. Total wedding cost: less than $2,500.
And why was the venue chosen?
''That's a place we like to go to,'' Ms. Lapson said. ''One night we were having dinner there and we just thought, 'Let's hold our wedding here.' ''
After all, as Ms. Kaneko observed, ''No one thinks about their personality and says, 'Stephanie: hotel ballroom.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PLANNED IN TWO WEEKS: Rosa Brooks, above, married Joseph Mouer in her backyard in Alexandria, Va. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI JOHNSON)
FAVORITE SPOT: Tatyana Lapson, top right, and her husband, Michael, had their ceremony in a beer garden in Queens.
THEN, A PICNIC: Ruby Dee Philippa and Jorge Harada, at center above right, went the justice of the peace route.
 NO FUSS: Katie Schneiber and Russell Hill married in friends' backyard. Bridesmaids' scarves were found online for $18. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEGAN HUET)(ST8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY GWENDA KACZOR)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); MARRIAGE (89%); WEDDING & NEWLYWEDS MARKET (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); WRITERS (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); CATERING SERVICES (76%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (76%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (74%); TRENDS (72%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (71%); COUNTRY MUSIC (71%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (68%); MARKET RESEARCH (64%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (63%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (60%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (66%); KIM KARDASHIAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); VIRGINIA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012



393 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2097 words

HEADLINE: Just Wait Until Your Mother Gets Home

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

 BODY:
IN 2006, James Griffioen was a litigator at a national firm in San Francisco with an 18-month-old daughter and a problem. ''Having to go back to the office and work 70 hours a week -- or 90, if you want to make partner -- that cracked something in me. Something broke,'' he said. ''It was all the drive and ambition I had as a lawyer. I looked at it over the next five years and thought, 'There's no way I'm even going to see my kid.' ''So he huddled with his wife, a public interest lawyer. They took a hard look at their relative career satisfaction, discussed their desire to have one parent stay home instead of relying on day care, and decided that it made sense for the family to flip the '50s sitcom vision of the American family and have Mr. Griffioen, now 35, leave the work force and join the nation's swelling ranks of at-home dads. 
Six years later, he considers himself less a Mr. Mom than a new archetype of the father as provider. ''I sort of take things upon myself,'' said Mr. Griffioen, whose family has added a son and moved to Detroit. ''I don't go to the store to buy my kids toys. I make them toys. I do woodworking, leatherworking. I learned all sorts of manly skills that I never would have had time to learn if I were sitting in an office 28 stories above San Francisco.''
Until recently, stay-at-home fathers made up a tiny sliver of the American family spectrum. Few in number, and lacking voice, they tended to keep to themselves, trying to avoid the inevitable raised eyebrows.
In the last decade, though, the number of men who have left the work force entirely to raise children has more than doubled, to 176,000, according to recent United States census data. Expanding that to include men who maintain freelance or part-time jobs but serve as the primary caretaker of children under 15 while their wife works, the number is around 626,000, according to calculations the census bureau compiled for this article.
Meanwhile, the identity of the at-home dad is evolving, on the playground and in the culture at large. To this new cohort, the decision to stay home with the children is seen not a failure of their responsibilities as men, but a lifestyle choice -- one that makes sense in an era in which women's surging salaries have thrown the old family hierarchy into flux; and men have embraced a more fluid interpretation of a career that places a premium on fulfillment, not money and status.
'I'm the New Normal'
In May, The New Yorker ran a cover illustration that at-home dads hailed as proof that their day was finally dawning: a stroller-pushing mom stands frozen at the entrance of a city playground, a blank look on her face as she notices that every other Baby Bjorn-wearing, bottle-wielding parent there is a dad.
''I live that every day,'' said Lance Somerfeld, an at-home father and a founder of NYC Dads Group, a support network and activities group with 600 members.
In the four years since he founded the organization, similar groups have popped up in Chicago, Washington and Portland, and attitudes among the women on the playground have shifted.
''Just a few years ago, I was usually the lone dad on the playground during the day,'' Mr. Somerfeld, 39, said on a recent sunny Wednesday morning, while hanging out with eight other dads at the Heckscher Playground in Central Park. ''The moms and nannies gawked at me like I was an exhibit at the zoo. Now, I'm the new normal.''
It is a new sense of acceptance that is mirrored in popular culture, where the at-home dad is no longer simply played for cheap laughs of the ''fish out of water'' variety.
Will Arnett's Chris, on the NBC sitcom ''Up All Night,'' is a lawyer turned at-home dad who is harried and exhausted, like any new parent, but he's not ashamed of his decision. Far from a ''Mr. Mom'' buffoon, he might even be considered a postmodern form of hunk, despite his spittle-stained sweatshirts. Similarly, the new novel ''Triburbia,'' by Karl Taro Greenfeld, reflects an elastic family structure (at least among the economically privileged), where being an at-home dad is no longer considered exceptional.
The main characters, who include a sculptor, a sound engineer and a playwright in Manhattan's bourgeois-bohemian enclave of TriBeCa, spend their days huddling with their children at pottery class while their wives labor in their office towers. But no one really talks about what that means for their identity as men.
''That's the evolution,'' said Mr. Greenfeld, who lived just such a life while writing the book. ''Whoever has more time can take on more of the domestic role. There isn't any shame, or even any social awkwardness. It's not even observed as being anything distinctive or worthy of comment.''
There was little discussion of male ego when David Worford, a former Web editor in Fort Collins, Colo., and his wife, Cherie, an obstetrician and gynecologist, agreed that he would stay home with their young sons a few years ago.
''Most of my income was going directly to child care,'' he said. ''Throw on that I was handling most of the domestic workload anyway because of the hours Cherie was working. It just made sense to make the move both economically and for family life. It was great to have a constant at home.''
The decision, Dr. Worford said, frees her from ''mommy guilt'' over leaving her children for the day to pursue a career. ''I know he loves them and nurtures them,'' she said. ''It makes my job way easier, knowing that I don't have to worry.''
Without question, more men are available to tackle family duty around the house because of fallout from the financial crisis. Federal statistics show that men lost two and a half times as many jobs as women did in the recession.
But Brad Harrington, director of the Boston College Center for Work and Family, who has conducted multiple studies involving fatherhood, said that many men now feel the freedom to choose to be at-home dads for the deeper rewards, even when their jobs are secure.
Of those who had made the choice, Professor Harrington said, ''many expressed, 'This may be the most meaningful work I'll ever do.' ''
Ward Cleaver as Web designer
At-home fathers might strike some as a threat to the ''Leave It to Beaver'' family structure, except that such a thing barely exists anymore.
In 2011, only 16 percent of American households contained a breadwinner husband and a stay-at-home wife, according to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics. Indeed, a modern version of the show might feature June pulling in six figures as a management consultant, while Ward works out of a home office as a Web designer, carving out time between freelance projects to shuttle the Beaver to the skate park.
It would be no surprise if Ward suffered paycheck envy. About 40 percent of women now make more than their husbands, the bureau's statistics show, and that may be only the beginning of a seismic power shift, if new books like ''The Richer Sex: How the New Majority of Female Breadwinners Is Transforming Sex, Love, And Family,'' by Liza Mundy, and ''The End of Men: And the Rise of Women,'' by Hanna Rosin, are to be believed.
Ms. Rosin argues in her book, which hits shelves next month, that many professional couples are evolving into free-flowing partnerships, or ''seesaw couples,'' in which each spouse continually adjusts his or her role in response to changing family circumstances.
''A husband can work to support his wife through school and then she can take over and be the hotshot lawyer,'' Ms. Rosin writes.
''Anyone can play the role of breadwinner for any period,'' she adds.
Such an arrangement is alluring to couples (Brooklyn is full of them) in which the wife maintains a lucrative professional career and the husband works in a creative field, say, as a screenwriter, where the hours are flexible.
That is the case with Christopher Michel, an at-home dad in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. A former Fulbright scholar, Mr. Michel, 35, spends 12 hours a day answering to the needs and whims of his 21-month-old daughter, Akiko, while his wife, Karen Shimizu, heads off to Manhattan to cover the rent as a magazine editor.
But that's not where his daily duties end. Although, technically, he has no job, in a sense he has two. He also squeezes in work as a freelance writer and poet between 5 and 7 a.m., before his daughter wakes, or during naptime. For the bulk of the day, the muse takes a back seat to household duties.
Last week, he recalled: ''We were walking through the park, and I had a nice alliterative line drop into my head, so I pulled out my phone, opened up the tiny little word editor, trying to frantically type this good line. And of course, as soon as I opened my phone, she wants to show me this bug that she has found.''
The Artisanal Father
In a way, the decision to opt out of the rat race to pursue a more ''meaningful'' career as a parent echoes the classic Plan B narrative of the stress-addled professional who bails out to immerse himself in roll-up-the-sleeves work -- say, craft-whiskey distilling, or beekeeping. (Given the drudgery and muck involved, parenting might be considered the ultimate ''artisanal'' pursuit.)
''For the creative, freelance, D.I.Y.-type guy,'' Ms. Rosin said in an interview, ''being a stay-at-home dad feels like a form of rebellion, like living off the macho grid and showing people that you are not tied to your father's notion of what men should do on weekdays.''
In that spirit, Mike Adamick, 35, who left his job as a newspaper reporter to be an at-home dad in San Francisco six years ago, often spends weekday afternoons sewing clothes for his daughter, Emmeline, who is 6. Most recently, he salvaged the flannel from a '70s-casual sports jacket from the Salvation Army into a thigh-length skirt. ''It turned into this nice gray number with some distinguished flair,'' he said proudly.
''This ain't the 20th century,'' he added. ''There are 300 million people in the U.S., so there are 150 million ways to be a man.''
Sewing is not his only do-it-yourself pursuit. Like several of those interviewed, he said that his life as an at-home dad has spun off a side career: blogging about being an at-home dad. He writes a popular daddy blog, Cry It Out, and contributes parenting articles to Jezebel and other sites.
He is not alone. Since bailing out of law to become an at-home dad, Mr. Griffioen has begun an active side career as a blogger, writer and photographer, even though parenting remains his day job. Mr. Griffioen's blog, Sweet Juniper!, attracts up to 300,000 page views a month, and spins off a healthy side income, thanks to advertising on it.
But, many of the fathers interviewed said, blogging also taps into a support network of other at-home dads and helps you stay sane after too many hours chatting with pint-size conversational partners still trying to master the multisyllable noun.
''My blog is my way to share the rebooting of my life with the world,'' Mr. Griffioen said.
Betty Draper Disease
Even if at-home fathers are finally coming ''out of the pantry,'' as some like to joke, challenges remain. The modern at-home father is not immune to Betty Draper disease: the isolation and tedium familiar to housewives throughout the ages.
When he lived in Brooklyn, Matt McGuire, an at-home dad who recently moved to Manhattan with his family, recalls scouring a Park Slope parents forum for meet-ups with other parents, only to find posts like, ''Hey ladies -- who's up for some breast-feeding and decaf skinny lattes?''
Questions about the division of labor can be a challenge, even when couples enter the arrangement willingly. ''Make sure you define it really well with your spouse,'' said Dan Bryk, an at-home father in New York. ''There are times when your working spouse will come from a particularly tough day at work and will just forget what a tough gig this is. As I'm sure men did for a century, they just take for granted, well, 'What did you do? You kept him from injuring himself for eight hours?' There's a lot more to it than that.''
And even with the shifting power dynamic at the playground, there remains something of a line in the sandbox, said Matthew Pritchard, an at-home dad in New York. How does a lone man approach a lone woman at the teeter-totter without giving her the wrong impression?
''I feel like some moms have been resistant to me at the playground or wherever we meet because maybe they think I'm flirting or have a hidden agenda,'' said Mr. Pritchard, 47. ''As a new father, I find that kind of amusing. Not only do I have no desire for anything else but a play date, I have no energy or time, either.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HARMONY: The NYC Dads Group in a ''Daddy and Me'' music class in Central Park. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST1)
QUIET TIME: Above, Christopher Michel, an at-home dad, writer and poet in Brooklyn, with his 21-month-old daughter, Akiko.
VIGILANT: Left, Matt McGuire stays at home with his 10-month-old daughter, Charlotte, in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANNY GHITIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 SHOPPING: Below, Mike Adamick, who stays at home with Emmelne, 6, helps her pick out ice cream near their home in San Francisco. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (89%); CHILDREN (88%); FAMILY (88%); LABOR FORCE (87%); LITIGATION (78%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); LAWYERS (75%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (69%); CENSUS (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012



394 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: Whitney Hopkins, Martin Oehmke

 BODY:
Whitney Price Hopkins, the daughter of Pamela W. Hopkins and Thomas H. Hopkins of Vail, Colo., was married Saturday to Martin Oehmke, a son of Anke Oehmke and Frank Oehmke of Bonn, Germany. The couple performed the ceremony themselves at the home of the bride's parents, under Colorado's self-uniting marriage statute.The bride, 30, is keeping her name. She is a product designer and researcher in New York for Smart Design, which designs products for other companies. She graduated from Stanford and received a master's in architecture from Parsons the New School for Design. 
Her father is a founder and the chief executive of Zero E Technologies, a Denver company that designs and manufactures electric motors. Her mother is a founding partner of Snowdon & Hopkins, an architectural firm in Vail.
The groom, 33, is an associate professor of finance at Columbia University in New York. He graduated from Oxford University and received a master's in economics from the London School of Economics and a Ph.D. in economics from Princeton.
His mother retired as a teacher of German and history at the Nicolaus Cusanus Gymnasium, a high school in Bonn. His father, also retired, was a judge of the Administrative Court in Cologne, Germany, specializing in political asylum cases.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (86%); MARRIAGE (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (75%); MARRIAGE LAW (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MOTOR & GENERATOR MFG (54%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (73%) COLORADO, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012



395 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2956 words

HEADLINE: War Wounds

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
IT would be so much easier, Maj. Ben Richards says, if he had just lost a leg in Iraq.Instead, he finds himself losing his mind, or at least a part of it. And if you want to understand how America is failing its soldiers and veterans, honoring them with lip service and ceremonies but breaking faith with them on all that matters most, listen to the story of Major Richards.
For starters, he's brilliant. (Or at least he was.) He speaks Chinese and taught at West Point, and his medical evaluations suggest that until his recent problems he had an I.Q. of about 148. After he graduated from West Point, in 2000, he received glowing reviews.
''Ben Richards is one of the best military officers I have worked with in 13 years of service,'' noted an evaluation, one of many military and medical documents he shared with me. 
Yet Richards's intellect almost exacerbates his suffering, for it better equips him to monitor his mental deterioration -- and the failings of the Army that he has revered since he was a young boy.
Military suicides are the starkest gauge of our nation's failure to care adequately for those who served in uniform. With America's wars winding down, the United States is now losing more soldiers to suicide than to the enemy. Include veterans, and the tragedy is even more sweeping. For every soldier killed in war this year, about 25 veterans now take their own lives.
President Obama said recently that it was an ''outrage'' that some service members and veterans sought help but couldn't get it: ''We've got to do better. This has to be all hands on deck.'' Admirable words, but so far they've neither made much impact nor offered consolation to those who call the suicide prevention hot line and end up on hold.
The military's problems with mental health services go far beyond suicide or the occasional murders committed by soldiers and veterans. Far more common are people like Richards, who does not contemplate violence of any kind but is still profoundly disabled.
An astonishing 45 percent of those who served in Iraq or Afghanistan are now seeking compensation for injuries, in many cases psychological ones. It's unclear how many are exaggerated or even fraudulent, but what is clear is this: the financial cost of these disabilities will be huge, yet it is dwarfed by the human cost.
Richards's finest hour, and in retrospect his worst, came in Iraq in 2007. He was then a captain assigned to the city of Baquba, a hotly contested area where he was welcomed on his first day by a 12-hour firefight. In Baquba, Richards pioneered an initiative to cooperate with local Sunni Muslim militias -- who had previously attacked Americans -- to defeat the local branch of Al Qaeda.
This was ferociously controversial at first and Richards was bitterly criticized by other officers for collaborating with the enemy. But the strategy worked and was broadly adopted by the military in Iraq. The New York Times wrote that year about Richards's leadership; the Army promoted him, and he seemed destined for greatness.
Then one day a car bomb destroyed his Stryker vehicle, giving Richards a severe concussion that left him nauseated and dazed for a week. Three weeks later, a roadside bomb knocked him out again, and he suffered a second concussion, with similar results.
Richards, now 36, struggled for months with headaches, fatigue, insomnia and fainting spells; once he passed out in the middle of a firefight. Still, he didn't seek medical care. He figured he wasn't really injured, and that has been a widespread problem: the military value system is such that warriors disdain medical care as long as they are physically capable of fighting.
''Coming from an Army ethos,'' he says wryly, ''you're not even entitled to complain unless you've lost all four limbs.''
Yet there's growing evidence that concussions -- whether in sports or in the military -- are every bit as damaging as far bloodier wounds. When someone suffers blows to the head, the result can be a traumatic brain injury, or T.B.I. This, eventually, was Richards's diagnosis.
Richards's wife, Farrah, was thrilled when he returned ''safely'' from Iraq in the fall of 2007, and she counted them both very, very lucky. But almost immediately, Farrah says, she noticed that the man who came home wore her husband's skin but was different inside. ''There were obvious changes in his personality,'' she recalls. ''He was extremely withdrawn; he would go into the bedroom for hours.''
A once boisterous dad who loved to roughhouse with his children -- now there are four, ages 1 to 14 -- Ben no longer seemed to know how to play with them. He often suffered incapacitating headaches, overwhelming fatigue and constant insomnia. Especially when dozing, he was on a hair trigger. If Farrah rose at night, she sometimes didn't return to bed for fear that her husband might think she was an enemy and attack her. Instead, she'd spend the rest of the night on the couch.
For a woman who had been functioning as a single mom and was now eager to resume her former married life, all this was devastating. And it got worse. Farrah would tell her husband things, and then he would repeatedly forget -- and reproach her for not telling him. He was distracted, withdrawn and unhelpful, and he repeatedly let her down.
''Our marriage was at real risk at this point,'' Richards says. ''We got to a point where we thought about separating.''
Yet it became increasingly apparent that the problem wasn't that Richards was a jerk. It was that he had a war injury, an invisible one.
It's often said that traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic stress disorder, which Richards's doctors also diagnosed, are the signature wounds of the Iraq and Afghan wars. That's partly because of the strains of repeated combat tours and partly because the enemy now relies more on bombs than bullets.
These factors suggest an answer to a continuing mystery: Why is suicide among soldiers and veterans more common now? Data collection has been poor, but several studies suggest that suicides among Vietnam veterans were not elevated. And traditionally, suicide rates among military personnel were lower than among civilians. Yet that has changed in the last decade, perhaps because of the increased time that today's troops have spent in combat and how common explosions -- and resulting concussions -- have become in war zones.
OF the 100 soldiers under Richards, about 90 were hit by at least one bomb blast, and one Stryker crew was hit five times, Richards says. Yet few received significant medical treatment or were pulled out of harm's way to protect them from a repeat concussion.
Richards himself didn't receive any thorough examination or prompt diagnosis, even though he sought help from a series of doctors and counselors. He and Farrah just knew that something was wrong with his mind -- and the intellectual toll became clearer when the Army sent him to Georgetown University to earn a graduate degree. The once brilliant scholar found that his brain just didn't function properly.
''The paper is disappointing,'' Professor Nancy Bernkopf Tucker commented on one of his term papers, on China. ''Parts are not coherent and overall it is not effective. It is not well written and it is sloppy. Of greatest significance is the lack of analysis.''
Tucker told me that she recalled Richards well. ''I remember him partly because I liked him so much,'' she said. ''He never told me about his background, and all I saw was someone not living up to his potential.''
Richards agreed with her comments on his work. His pure reasoning capacity is unimpaired, but his memory and ability to concentrate are faulty. In effect, he is a brilliant man tracking his cognitive deterioration.
After stumbling along to complete his Georgetown degree, Richards moved to West Point two years ago to take up a teaching position. He was elated to be teaching there -- but he found himself losing his train of thought in class. He couldn't read more than a few pages at a time. Richards saw that students were looking at him questioningly, trying to figure out what was wrong.
''It hurts, it's humiliating,'' he said. ''I was always thinking maybe this is just something psychological -- I'm an Army guy, I can get over this.'' It was at this time, three years after the concussions in Iraq, that military physicians finally gave Richards a diagnosis of traumatic brain injury. Meanwhile, the headaches, the insomnia, the fatigue and the concentration problems grew worse, and he was embarrassed that medication for the headaches led him to put on 45 pounds.
Realizing that he wasn't cutting it as an instructor, Richards asked in March to be relieved of his teaching duties. After a battery of physical and psychiatric tests, including a scan that found eight lesions in his brain tissue, the Army confirmed that he was disabled. He is retiring this month.
''Leaving the Army is the hardest thing I ever did,'' he told me, and he seemed near tears.
Sometimes Richards is optimistic and imagines that he can find a new career -- ''if I get smart again,'' as he puts it. But then reality sets in, often in the form of an agonizing headache. As we sat together in their living room, Farrah gently dismissed the idea of Ben's working and said that she can't even trust him to look after the toddler. Ben bit his lip and nodded slowly. ''I'm basically unemployable,'' he said.
Ben and Farrah found that they could no longer afford to live near West Point, so they have just moved to Iowa to be near Farrah's parents. The couple's marital strains seem mended, and Farrah says that now that she understands that her husband is suffering from a war wound, she is committed to seeing him through.
''Farrah is an amazing lady to stick through this,'' Ben told me. ''I am not sure who is having a harder time with T.B.I., me or my wife. In many ways, I am different from the man she married.''
Countless spouses, parents and children of returning troops are struggling with similar challenges. Spouses often complain that the military treats them particularly poorly, and rarely communicates adequately. ''They'll be like, 'your husband was briefed on that.' '' Farrah said. ''And I say, 'well, my husband can't remember that briefing.' ''
COMPOUNDING the stress, the military and the Department of Veterans Affairs are vastly overburdened by the mental health demands of returning soldiers. And that's not just the view of the troops but also of Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta.
''This system is going to be overwhelmed,'' he said at a Congressional hearing last month. ''Let's not kid anybody. We're looking at a system -- it's already overwhelmed.''
Panetta said that the ''epidemic'' of military suicide was ''one of the most frustrating problems'' he has faced as defense secretary. Obama talked about the challenge of military suicides as early as the 2008 campaign, and his administration deserves modest credit for (inadequate) steps to improve mental health care. Dr. Jonathan Woodson, assistant secretary of defense for health affairs, told me that the military had made progress in screening and treating traumatic brain injury and mental health, so that a soldier would be more likely to get help today than five years ago, when Richards suffered his blast injuries.
''We're light-years more advanced now in terms of how we approach these problems and what we teach troops about getting help,'' he said. In particular, blast injuries are tracked and treated more rigorously, he said, but he acknowledged that more work needed to be done.
Grim experiences like the one Richards endured might create an opening for Mitt Romney, but he isn't taking it. As a governor and candidate, he has had a weak record on veterans, and he hasn't shown leadership on the issue. He managed to speak to the Veterans of Foreign Wars last month without addressing veterans' issues in a substantive way.
In any case, my take is that whatever political leaders say in Washington, and whatever directives emerge from the Pentagon, not nearly enough is changing on the ground. Mental health still isn't the priority it should be. Just about every soldier or veteran I've talked to finds that in practice the mental health system is clogged with demands, and soldiers and veterans are falling through the cracks. Returning soldiers aren't adequately screened, diagnosis and treatment of traumatic brain injury are still haphazard, and there hasn't been nearly enough effort to change the warrior culture so that getting help is smart rather than sissy.
The National Alliance on Mental Illness recently offered an idea to help change this culture: the armed forces should award Purple Hearts for invisible, psychological wounds. That might help ease the stigma and would underscore that medical problems are real even if they are inside the head. The alliance also recommended that commanders be held accountable for preventable suicides.
While the challenges are acute for those on active duty, they often become even greater when troops take off their uniforms and become veterans seeking services from the hugely overburdened Veterans Affairs Department. Ben and Farrah have found it immensely difficult to get reliable information from the V.A. about what benefits they can count on. Richards says that in 11 phone calls, he has heard different stories every time.
''The V.A. is an abomination,'' he said. ''You see that hole in the wall?'' He pointed at what looked like a rat hole. ''That's when I threw the phone after someone at V.A. hung up on me.''
None of this is a surprise. The V.A. says that veterans wait an average of eight months to get an initial decision on the claims they file. When service members seek to retire for medical reasons, the process takes an average of 396 days. Eric Shinseki, the secretary of veterans affairs, notes that the V.A. processes more claims each year than it did before, but that the number of new claims surges by an even greater amount. The upshot is that the V.A. steps up its game but still gets further behind.
Shinseki notes some areas of progress -- the number of homeless veterans seems to have fallen significantly -- and he points to new systems and hiring intended to make the system function better. The number of V.A. mental health staff members has risen from 13,000 in 2005 to more than 20,000 today, he said.
AT a time when nearly half of veterans returning from battle file disability claims, it's fair to wonder whether word hasn't spread that service members can claim some vague mental health ailment, like post-traumatic stress disorder, and get a paycheck from the government. The V.A. approves roughly half of claims, but the difficulty of diagnosis of mental health ailments means that they may not always be the legitimate ones. We may be getting the worst of all worlds: fraudulent claims approved, while legitimate ones are unrecognized or unconscionably delayed.
''The V.A. certainly doesn't care,'' says Jim Strickland, who runs the V.A. Watchdog Web site. ''The very institution that should be at the forefront of caring for vets is dead last.'' The Web site declares: ''This country is capable of drafting you, putting you in boot camp, teaching you to kill someone, and then putting you in a war zone within six months. So why can't they process a claim that fast?''
The same military that lavishes attention on its drones and aircraft carriers seems to take its people for granted. Stryker vehicles are refurbished, but not the men who operate them. The military health insurance won't cover some of the treatments that doctors recommended for Richards.
All this is unforgivable, but it's also shortsighted. The military's most valuable assets aren't its Strykers or tanks, but the highly trained troops inside them. When a soldier is harmed by repeat concussions, hundreds of thousands of dollars invested in training are squandered. And shoddy treatment of returning soldiers will undermine recruitment and retention in the future.
I asked Ben and Farrah why they agreed to tell their story and share medical and personal files, some of which detail Ben's deterioration to a degree that is almost humiliating. ''I regard this as my residual duty,'' he replied. He thinks that he let his soldiers down by letting them return to action after suffering concussions, and he wants to atone by helping to call attention to a system that fails so many soldiers and veterans.
Farrah is scathing about what she sees as the failure of the Army and V.A. to support the troops. She adds, ''Our leaders, political and military, have not been honest with people about the cost of the war.''
As for Ben, he's not nearly as harsh. It's clear that he still adores the Army, and he is less bitter than wistful.
''I'm extremely proud of what I did in Iraq,'' he told me. ''I recognize that this was a risk that I voluntarily accepted.'' Many others have suffered far worse injuries, he notes, or are suffering alone without the soul mate he has in Farrah.
Both Farrah and Ben wish that his injury were more obvious. If he were in a wheelchair, neighbors would think of him as a hero, instead of as perhaps a malingering crackpot.
''I'd trade a leg for this in a heartbeat,'' Ben said. ''If all I was missing was a leg, I'd be a stud. And if I'd lost a leg, I'd be able to stay in the Army. That's all I want to do.'' He summed up his future: ''it comes to failure.''
But that's flat wrong. In speaking out with brutal candor about his injury and decline, Maj. Ben Richards exemplifies courage and leadership. He's not damaged goods, but a hero. Maybe, if our leaders are listening, one of his last remaining dreams is still achievable: that his story will help win better treatment for so many others like him.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Maj. Ben Richards, who suffered repeated head injuries in Iraq, sums up his future: ''It comes to failure.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BORRIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(SR1)
At left, a car bomb in Iraq in May 2007 left Ben Richards, then a captain, with a severe concussion. A second concussion left him with debilitating injuries. Above, Ben, now 36, at home with his wife, Farrah, 34. He is retiring as a disabled veteran.(PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF BEN RICHARDS
ASHLEY GILBERTSON/VII, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(SR6
 SR7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); SUICIDE (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ARMIES (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (75%); MENTAL HEALTH (72%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (61%); DISABLED PERSONS (60%); MURDER (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012



396 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: Anne Macaulay, Jason Donahue

 BODY:
Anne Rodger Macaulay and Jason Louie Donahue were married Saturday evening at the Mandarin Oriental hotel in New York. Judge Paul A. Crotty of Federal District Court in Manhattan officiated.Mrs. Donahue, 30, is the corporate relations manager in the fund-raising office of the Institute of Contemporary Art/Boston. She graduated from Carnegie Mellon University. 
She is a daughter of Linda R. Macaulay and William E. Macaulay of Greenwich, Conn. The bride's father is the chairman and chief executive of the First Reserve Corporation, a buyout firm in Greenwich. He is also the chairman of the Rogosin Institute, a medical research and treatment center in New York. Her mother works from Greenwich as an ornithologist and research associate for Cornell. She is also a Cornell trustee and a vice chairwoman of the American Museum of Natural History in New York.
Mr. Donahue, also 30, is pursuing an M.B.A. at Harvard. He was an intern this summer with Apple's product marketing team in Cupertino, Calif. He graduated cum laude from Brown.
He is a son of Linda L. Donahue and Gilbert J. Donahue of Annandale, Va. The groom's mother is a career development officer at the State Department in Washington, from which his father retired as a political and economic analyst who specialized in Asian affairs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (86%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); FUNDRAISING (72%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (72%); HISTORY (69%); ORNITHOLOGY (69%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (67%)

COMPANY: FIRST RESERVE CORP (84%); APPLE INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (56%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (84%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (69%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (69%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (69%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (87%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012



397 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Closing Fees Ease Up

BYLINE: By VICKIE ELMER

 BODY:
FOR some people, a major hurdle to homeownership is the closing costs that come on top of the required down payment. There are fees for everything from title searches to deed recordings, and if you happen to be buying in New York or New Jersey, you'll find some of the highest costs in the country.But these fees have been easing, according to a report released last week by Bankrate.com, which found that average closing costs, including mortgage origination fees, fell 7 percent nationwide from 2011 to 2012. In New York they fell 12 percent.
Mortgage origination fees alone fell 1 percent from 2011, the report said; third-party fees like title insurance fell 12 percent. 
The Bankrate report was based on a survey in June of up to 10 lenders in each state, including the District of Columbia; each of the lenders was asked to provide a good-faith estimate for a hypothetical $200,000 mortgage.
Bankrate considers add-on fees like underwriting charges part of the origination fees, which are often included in closing costs. (It excludes property taxes, homeowners' insurance, interest and other prepaid items.) ''Some lenders aggregate it all in one fee; others break it out in five or six fees,'' said Greg McBride, Bankrate's senior financial analyst, who suggests borrowers add them up and count them as one cost for obtaining a mortgage.
Mr. McBride says that with the reduction over the last year, closing costs are now where they were back in 2010. He attributed the drop to competition among mortgage lenders and more accurate estimates of third-party fees.
New York, though, still has the highest average closing costs of any state, at $5,435, compared with $3,754 nationwide and $4,075 in New Jersey, which had the seventh-highest average. Other high-cost states include Texas, Pennsylvania and Florida, while Missouri, at $3,006, was the least costly, according to Bankrate.
Consumers could reduce borrowing costs even further with some smart shopping.
''You really have to understand the full picture,'' said Rick Allen, the chief operating officer of MortgageMarvel.com, a mortgage shopping site. If you don't know what a fee covers, ask about it, he said, then challenge the lender to lower or eliminate it. ''With the interest rate and lenders' fees, there's room to negotiate,'' he added, especially if there's a second lender lined up.
Of course, some fees can't change. There are three categories: fees that must remain as disclosed in a good-faith estimate; fees that can increase by up to 10 percent; and fees with no change limit. There are no federal rules, however, on how far down fees can be negotiated by the borrower.
In January 2010, the Department of Housing and Urban Development ruled that the 10 percent limit applies to title insurance, and other required services like appraisals or surveys, provided borrowers use one of the companies recommended by their lenders. (If you shop beyond their small circle of companies, the fees could go up more, according to HUD.)
Lender origination fees are required to remain as disclosed in the good-faith estimate. And if costs for a lender-recommended service go up more than 10 percent, the lender is supposed to issue a new good-faith estimate and disclose the increase, Mr. McBride said.
Title insurance is the biggest cost, averaging around 1 percent of the loan balance. Mr. McBride suggested that borrowers shop around, eliciting good-faith estimates from a number of lenders.
In New York, title insurance fees are set by the state, so the rates should be nearly the same no matter who the lender is, said Rafael Castellanos, the managing partner of the Expert Title Insurance Agency in Manhattan.
Borrowers should ask about the cost of ''departmental searches,'' which check for things like certificate of occupancy, and whether there is a local fire department or sidewalks. In New York City, a departmental search should cost around $325, he said.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH.com)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); TITLE INSURANCE (90%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (74%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); PROPERTY TAX (66%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (60%); CITIES (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012



398 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL /2012 BMW 528I XDRIVE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1527 words

HEADLINE: 2 Fewer Cylinders, Not That You'll Notice

BYLINE: By CSABA CSERE

 BODY:
WITH gasoline prices likely to remain over $3 a gallon for some time, fuel economy is on the minds of most vehicle buyers. And with the government's Corporate Average Fuel Economy regulations scheduled to reach 54.5 m.p.g. by 2025, auto executives, including those whose cars are at the high end of the price scale, are also focused on squeezing more miles from every gallon.In fact, the fuel economy challenge is probably tougher for luxury brands like BMW, Jaguar, Land Rover and Mercedes-Benz. Unlike the Cadillac division of General Motors, or the Audi, Bentley, Bugatti, Lamborghini and Porsche units of the Volkswagen Group, the stand-alone premium carmakers sell few of the small, efficient vehicles that would offset the thirstiness of their big, powerful luxury models -- at least in the United States.
For that reason, the latest fuel economy technologies are introduced most rapidly in these luxury models, which have price tags that can absorb the added cost of the advanced hardware. A perfect example of this trend is the 2012 BMW 528i.
The 5 Series is BMW's midsize model offering, introduced in its latest form as a 2011 model. It is available with a variety of engines, but the biggest seller has always been the version with the smallest displacement, known for at least two decades as the 525i or the 528i. 
Under their hoods lay one of BMW's in-line 6-cylinder engines of 2.5 to 3 liters, all justly lauded for their ample thrust and silky smoothness. Smaller engines have generally been regarded as beneath the dignity of the 5 Series -- and most other BMWs -- sold in America.
This thinking goes out the window with the release of the 2012 528i, which is powered by a 2-liter engine having just 4 cylinders. It's an unusually small power plant for a car that in its basic rear-drive configuration weighs about 3,800 pounds -- and, with just a few checkmarks on the option list, can cost $60,000.
There is but one motivation for this change: fuel efficiency. The window sticker on my test car, a 528i xDrive that weighed closer to 4,000 pounds, promised 22 miles per gallon in town and 32 on the highway, per the Environmental Protection Agency's rating.
That's a significant step up from the 18 city and 27 highway rating of the previous-generation 528i, which was powered by 3-liter 6-cylinder coupled to a 6-speed automatic transmission. (BMW's model designations no longer reflect the actual engine displacement, but are assigned according to their general horsepower levels).
Based on the E.P.A. ratings, much of that fuel economy improvement came from the switch to 8-speed automatics for the new 5 Series, with some of it a result of the smaller engine.
It's not hard to grasp that a small engine would consume less fuel than a big one, especially for drivers who have a lead foot. What is not as widely understood is that smaller engines are more efficient at every power level.
In other words, if it takes 25 horsepower to push the 528i down the highway at a steady 75 miles an hour, a 2-liter engine will use less fuel to generate those 25 horses than a 3-liter engine will. That's because engines are more efficient when they are working harder, and small engines are almost always working harder than big ones.
This is also why cars are getting more gear ratios in their transmissions -- to let their engines maintain lower r.p.m. levels at highway speeds. An engine producing 25 horsepower at 2,000 r.p.m. must work each cylinder harder than it would at 3,000 r.p.m. -- and that translates into lower fuel consumption.
There are drawbacks to such a strategy, though. Because a small, low-revving engine is already working pretty hard, there is little reserve power available when the driver floors the accelerator. An automatic transmission can downshift, of course, but if it has to kick down every time you ask for a bit more speed, the car will feel gutless and unsatisfying. In other words, not very BMW-like.
A solution chosen by BMW, and many other automakers, is turbocharging, which captures the energy in the engine's hot exhaust gases to spin a compressor that pumps extra air into the cylinders. If you force-feed a 2-liter engine the same amount of air and fuel that a 3-liter engine would consume, you get 3-liter power and then some. Yet under most circumstances, you still get the innate fuel efficiency of the 2-liter engine.
Turbochargers have been around for decades, but only in recent years have they realized the benefits of several modern technologies. Developments like direct fuel injection, variable valve timing and computerized engine controls work together to make small turbo engines a viable path to fuel efficiency.
In the 2012 528i, not only do you get the fuel economy improvements, you also get 240 horsepower at 5,000 r.p.m. and 255 pound-feet of torque at a low 1,250 r.p.m. Last year's 3-liter in-line 6 developed nearly the same power, but at a higher engine speed, 6,500 r.p.m. -- and it made less torque.
With the same or greater peak output coming at lower engine speeds, the 4-cylinder 528i is nearly half a second quicker to 60 m.p.h. than its 6-cylinder predecessor, according to BMW. In normal driving, the new 528 feels more energetic than you would expect for a two-ton car with a 2-liter engine. Acceleration from stoplights was strong and there was plenty of urge even at 80 m.p.h.
While there's no question that the 2012 528i delivers both better performance and higher fuel economy than its 6-cylinder predecessor, smooth operation and refined character are equally important in a luxury car.
In those areas, a critical driver will sense some rough spots.
For example, when the engine is cold, it idles at around 800 r.p.m. -- and throbs somewhat like a diesel. With two fewer cylinders, the engine's firing impulses are naturally farther apart, and the driver feels the difference. Once the engine warms up, though, the idle drops to 700 r.p.m. and the engine feels much smoother.
With the engine warm, however, the stop-start system engages, shutting off the engine at traffic lights. This feature saves fuel, especially in urban driving, but you instantly notice when the engine has been shut off. I would have expected BMW to apply some tuning magic to make this operation less apparent.
At 75 m.p.h. with the transmission in eighth gear, the 4-cylinder is revving at only about 2,100 r.p.m. and feels completely unobtrusive. But at a steady 50 m.p.h., also in eighth gear, the r.p.m. drops to 1,400, generating a slight drone that no 6-cylinder BMW ever produced.
Yet even at such low engine speeds acceleration is available with a push on the gas pedal, a benefit of the turbocharger's helping hand. Push the pedal farther and the transmission downshifts smoothly -- even when it must reach for a gear two, three or even five steps lower in response to the driver's call for maximum acceleration. The 8-speed automatic is almost telepathic in the way it anticipates your needs and selects the right gear.
On one highway run that averaged 74 m.p.h., the trip computer calculated 32 m.p.g. Over all, I averaged better than 25 m.p.g. in fairly typical suburban driving. That's outstanding for a lavishly equipped all-wheel-drive luxury sedan that delivers such brisk performance.
Other than the new 4-cylinder powertrain, the 2012 528i is little changed from last year. Some might say that it resembles the 7 and 3 Series sedans too much -- the same sausage, cut to a different length.
But unlike its awkward fifth-generation predecessor, the car is conventionally handsome in the husky and muscular way of a German soccer fullback.
The cabin is beautifully finished and fitted with many comfort and convenience features. But I was a bit taken aback when I noticed that despite my test car's $61,125 sticker price, another $15,000 in available options could have been added. And while this 5 Series is a couple of inches longer than its predecessor, interior space remains less than generous.
For those who still think of BMWs as primarily sport sedans, this 528i will not be particularly satisfying. While smooth, responsive and capable, it never pulls at its leash. Not much information makes it through the steering system to disturb -- or inform -- the driver. The ride is comfortable and well-controlled, but the size and weight of the car don't encourage one to toss it around.
Of course, with the exception of my test car's sport package, the 528i xDrive is the most workaday and least athletic version of the 5 Series. There are more entertaining variations with 6- and 8-cylinder engines, ranging from 300 horsepower up to the very sporting 560-horsepower M5, with appropriate upgrades in running gear.
For the majority of 5 Series buyers, however, the new powertrain is a great success, achieving about 20 percent better fuel economy than the fifth-generation model they might be trading in, with even better performance and only a few subtle losses of refinement.
Such downsized turbocharged engines are appearing in everything from Fords to Bentleys. Expect them under the hoods of the majority of cars and trucks sold in America within five years.
INSIDE TRACK: In most respects, less is more.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NAME GAME: A 2-liter 4-cylinder engine powers the 2012 528i, replacing the in-line 6 that has been BMW's hallmark. (AU1)
 SIPPER: The 4-cylinder 528i is BMW's least sporty 5 Series. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BMW OF NORTH AMERICA)(AU4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); TRENDS (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); POWER PLANTS (67%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (62%)

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (92%); VOLKSWAGEN AG (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (92%); BMW (BIT) (92%); VOW3 (FRA) (91%); VKW (LSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012



399 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS | CONNECTICUT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: A Galloping City Captured in Slow Motion

BYLINE: By MARTHA SCHWENDENER

 BODY:
THERE are moments in history when everything interesting seems to take place indoors: clandestine meetings, documents being signed, objects and discoveries being made in private studios and ateliers. The past year, however, saw a different moment, in which plazas were occupied and protests and revolutions unfolded in the streets. Public space was activated -- which might partially explain why James Nares's ''STREET,'' at the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art in Hartford, feels particularly relevant at this moment.Mr. Nares's 61-minute video sits in a curious place, somewhere between still and moving images. It has the uncanny look of a 3-D slide show or some hybrid of photography and film; it also calls to mind the stereographic viewers that were popular in the 19th century. Shown in slow motion, the people Mr. Nares filmed on the streets of Manhattan look like cutouts placed into deep pockets of space. 
Mr. Nares filmed the video with a high-definition Phantom Flex camera (using an Angenieux Optimo 17-80 millimeter T2.2 zoom lens, for those who need to know). The edited footage is shown in slow motion, but the video employs another trick: the Phantom Flex is usually used in a stationary position to film fast-moving subjects, but Mr. Nares's camera reversed this. It was positioned in the back of a sport utility vehicle that was driven through Manhattan at 30 to 40 miles per hour.
Using the device of the familiar made unfamiliar -- or the uncanny -- ordinary street vignettes become noteworthy occasions. A man stares into the camera on 125th Street, seemingly communicating something to the viewer. People waiting on street corners seem assembled for an event, and individuals hailing cabs look as if they are raising their arms to speak or to testify. Lovers hug, and the slow-motion release of their embrace makes them look as if they are parting for the last time. A man beseeches a woman outside a church. Some people ignore the camera, but for those who acknowledge it, their gazes feel like coded bits of communication.
Occasionally, you will see someone ''famous'' on the streets of New York, like the Naked Cowboy, a performer who plays the acoustic guitar in his underwear. But mostly the video is a reminder of how cities are filled with strangers -- what modern artists like T. S. Eliot and Ernst Ludwig Kirchner identified as the strangely novel sensation of being alone in a crowd (although one wonders if ancient Romans ever felt the same way).
Some of the most fascinating moments involve animals and insects. Watching a pigeon fly in 3-D slow motion takes you back to the photographic experiments of Eadweard Muybridge, who captured ''animal locomotion.'' Muybridge's first subject, famously, was a galloping horse. Here, the movements of the pigeon become an updated supplement to that narrative. Similarly, a fly moving through the frame at a faster rate than the walking humans underscores how the animals and insects that live among us experience reality -- time, gravity and motion -- in an entirely different way.
Unlike in photography, with its singular moment, people here are caught in the process of having an expression. And there are other effects: streetlights pulse at an unfamiliar rate; a cigarette butt tossed from a hand flies erratically through the air; falling rain looks, because of the slower speed and greater volume of 3-D, like snow.
''STREET'' feels like a silent movie, except it is accompanied by a jangling, sometimes droning acoustic guitar soundtrack composed and performed by Thurston Moore of Sonic Youth. The alternate tuning of the guitar, at once dissonant and unfamiliar, has all the markings of a Sonic Youth instrumental. Mr. Nares himself was in a downtown New York band in the 1970s and made Super 8 films that served as a kind of visual complement to the No Wave and punk scene of that moment, and there is the vague sense of overlap with the past and the present.
But Mr. Nares's film is an eon away from the rough street aesthetic of the '70s. Instead, it feels -- and particularly because it is exhibited in a museum -- linked more to a whole art history of street art, which is like a genre of its own within the field. There is, of course, the bold graffiti made with spray-paint cans starting in the 1970s, often cited as America's most widely known and globally circulated aesthetic. But the earliest photographs often focused on the street: an 1839 daguerreotype by Louis-Jacques-Mand Daguerre featured a view of the Rue du Temple in Paris, and another French photographer, Eugne Atget, took thousands of photographs documenting spookily depopulated Parisian streets. In the 1960s, Garry Winogrand and Diane Arbus offered oblique critiques of America during the Vietnam War era by focusing on people on the street, and more recent artists like Jeff Wall, Philip-Lorca diCorcia, Beat Streuli and Paul Graham and videographers like Kim Sooja use a combination of documentation and manipulation to create contemporary visions of urban streets.
Mr. Nares's video isn't explicitly political, and yet there are, at all times, distinct markers of how cities are divided along class, race and economic lines. Although he keeps the camera trained at street level -- generally below the second floors of buildings -- you can often tell where you are, based on a knowledge of where tourists go and where different populations live.
New York looks a little more battered in Mr. Nares's representation than in many recent street-art works that highlight the Bloomberg era of gentrification and development. ''STREET'' also makes you aware, however, of how technology can radically change perception. It is a new representation of the city in which the still and the moving images are blurred, in which everything is stationary but shifting, and in which nothing is happening and, at the same time, there is too much to comprehend.
''James Nares: STREET'' is at the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art, 600 Main Street, Hartford, through Oct. 28. Information: (860) 278-2670 or wadsworthatheneum.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: VIGNETTES: James Nares's video ''STREET''captures scenes filmed in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF JAMES NARES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (76%); FILM (76%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (74%); CLASSICS (73%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (60%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WADSWORTH ATHENEUM MUSEUM OF ART (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012



400 of 1140 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; BITES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: Long Grain: Camden, Me.

BYLINE: By JANE BLACK

 BODY:
The critic Jonathan Gold created a sensation when, in a 2000 edition of Gourmet magazine, he anointed the Las Vegas restaurant Lotus of Siam the ''single best Thai restaurant in North America.'' That Siam's chef refused to dumb down flavors for American palates was thrilling to Mr. Gold and his readers. What added to this real frisson of excitement was that this unparalleled kitchen sat in an unassuming joint off the Vegas Strip.You get that same feeling when you take your first bite of the chewy, slightly charred broad noodles at Long Grain, in Camden, on the central Maine coast. The picturesque village is where you expect lobster rolls and bowls of chowder, not superior Thai cuisine. 
And yet, here it is, thanks to the husband-and-wife owners, Ravin Nakjaroen and Paula Palakawong. After the economic downturn forced them to close Four Rivers, their high-end Thai spot in Fort Lauderdale, they came north -- not to open another Thai restaurant, but to help run the kitchen of one of those charming Maine inns that serves lobster and chowder. The inn soon closed, but they liked the town. So in August 2010, they opened Long Grain on Camden's main drag.
The 30-seat restaurant is attractive but spare; the dcor consists of a few Edison bulbs and one wall prettily papered in rose and gold. The real excitement comes via Mr. Nakjaroen's food made with ingredients sourced from the Maine coast but reflecting flavors of his native Bangkok. Those broad noodles, pad kee mao, have nothing in common with the saucy, bland drunken noodles you find on many Thai menus. Mr. Nakjaroen makes his in-house and stir-fries them with seasonal, local greens (red and green kale on a recent visit), hen-of-the-woods mushrooms and Thai basil until the edges start to crisp, in the style of grandmothers all over Thailand.
The standard Thai beef salad is also elevated by fresh, local ingredients, in this case mesclun greens and beef so tender you can cut it with a spoon. Plump Pemaquid mussels are bathed in a coconut lemon grass broth that buzzes from a generous dollop of roasted chili jam.
Even dessert, generally an afterthought in Thai restaurants, is exceptional here: Mr. Nakjaroen's signature is a coconut flan with a crackle-crisp, bittersweet crust served atop fragrant black rice pudding.
Locals have embraced Long Grain for this level of quality, as well as reasonable prices (nothing on the menu costs more than $16). At 6 p.m. on a recent Thursday, every table was taken or reserved -- though it's possible they might find room for Mr. Gold should he decide to test his proclamation.
Long Grain, 31 Elm Street, Camden, Me; (207) 236-9001. An average meal for two, without drinks or tip, is about $40. Reservations recommended.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JANE BLACK)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); MENU PRICES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (73%) MAINE, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (90%); THAILAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

 
