

401 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Firm With a Shadowy Past Readies for a Public Debut

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON - Tucked away in a small village about 30 minutes from Zurich, Glencore International has grown from a small, secretive trading firm into one of the biggest buyers, sellers and producers of commodities in the last three decades. Behind the scenes, Glencore touches most basic resources, like sugar in coffee and the wires in cellphones.
Now, the commodities giant is stepping into the public eye for the first time, with a stock offering set for May 24 that could raise $11 billion. The hotly anticipated debut, which would be the world's largest so far this year, values the company at $61 billion and will significantly increase the personal wealth of the 485 senior employees who currently own Glencore. 
The initial public offering represents an important evolution in Glencore. The company - which handles the physical supply of 3 percent of the world's daily oil consumption, as well as owning mines, refineries and drill rigs - is jumping into the markets amid a commodities boom that some worry has reached its peak.
But some investors question whether Glencore will be able to move beyond its shadowy past, which includes dealings with rogue states. It also remains to be seen whether Glencore can make the transition from a commodities dealer working in secrecy to a transparent public company that has to regularly report its finances. In its prospectus, it lists ''fraud and corruption'' among the top risks for its trading operation.
''There are some areas you don't get too much clarity on,'' Egon Vavrek, a fund manager at LGT Capital Management in Switzerland, said.
The offering documents provide a rare, albeit limited, glimpse into how the company operates and its vast influence on the commodities market. Glencore - whose nondescript headquarters are in the Swiss canton of Zug, known for its low tax rates - controls 60 percent of the third-party zinc market and 20 percent to 40 percent of alumina, thermal coal and cobalt. Glencore's largest shareholder is its South African chief executive, Ivan Glasenberg, whose 15.8 percent stake would be valued at $9.6 billion in the share sale.
A spokesman for Glencore declined repeated interview requests, citing financial regulations in the United States against comment before the listing.
Glencore was started in 1974 by the commodities trader Marc Rich. Mr. Rich - who fled to Switzerland following tax evasion charges and was later pardoned by President Bill Clinton - famously made his money through risky deals, including buying oil in postrevolution Iran and selling it to Israel.
In the 1980s, Glencore started to expand beyond trading activities, buying a stake in a Peruvian zinc mine and other commodity assets. To gain a competitive edge, Mr. Rich forged strong relationships with business and political leaders in countries with large commodity reserves that were deemed too dangerous or corrupt by others, said Daniel Ammann, author of ''The King of Oil: The Secret Lives of Marc Rich.''
The strategy continued after a group of managers, including Mr. Glasenberg, bought the company from Mr. Rich for about $600 million in 1994. Mr. Glasenberg had joined Glencore 10 years earlier, originally sourcing coal in apartheid-era South Africa. By the time he took over as chief executive in 2002, Glencore's investments in mines and other physical assets earned a large chunk of its profit.
''Glencore goes for early stage or undiscovered areas where value is best and price is lowest,'' Timothy Huff, a director in equity research at RBC Capital Markets, said. ''Price is lowest because perceived risk is highest.''
Mr. Ammann added: ''If there was a strike in Guinea, Glencore would be the first to know about it and be able to exploit it.''
Such tactics proved controversial. A 2004 report published on the Central Intelligence Agency's Web site cited records that claimed Glencore had paid $3.2 million in illegal surcharges to Iraq, under Saddam Hussein, for oil outside the United Nations oil-for-food program. The company denied the allegations at the time.
Over all, Glencore's appetite for risk paid off. In 1997, Glencore bought a stake in Kazzinc, a zinc producer, from Kazakhstan at a time when that company was suffering from bad management and corruption. The investment not only helped increase production, it reduced unemployment in the region, making it popular with the government.
A decade later, Glencore was the only company willing to lend to Katanga Mining in the Democratic Republic of Congo, which was desperate for cash after the price of copper slumped amid the financial crisis. Once the market recovered, Glencore reaped big profits.
Glencore generates the bulk of its $6.1 billion profit from its industrial assets, including a 34.5 percent stake in Xstrata, another Swiss mining company.
''Over many decades, we have developed Glencore into an unrivaled global integrated commodity producer and marketer,'' Mr. Glasenberg told potential investors in April. ''An I.P.O. is the next logical step.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ivan Glasenberg, Glencore's chief executive, on a teleconference in Hong Kong. The company's stock offering, set for May 24, could raise $11 billion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOBBY YIP/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); SUGAR MARKETS (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); CORRUPTION (87%); ZINC MARKETS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); COAL MARKETS (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (77%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (76%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (74%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (74%); LEAD & ZINC MINING (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX FRAUD (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CONSUMPTION (68%); TAX LAW (67%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (62%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%)

COMPANY: GLENCORE INTERNATIONAL AG (92%); LGT CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LTD (54%)

TICKER: GLEN (LSE) (92%); 0805 (HKSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (92%); NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (90%) ZUG, SWITZERLAND (58%) SWITZERLAND (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



402 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE THE BOTTOM LINE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: As Recession-Pinched Cities Trim Their Fire Staffing, Chicago Stands Pat

BYLINE: By DAN MIHALOPOULOS and MICHAEL LIPKIN. 
dmihalopoulos@chicagonewscoop.org; mlipkin@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
In 1976, the year that Robert Hoff became a Chicago firefighter, 156 people died in fires in the city. By 2010, when Mr. Hoff became the department's commissioner, that figure had plummeted to 27.
The number of fires that the department was called to put out also dropped dramatically in recent decades. What has hardly changed is the staffing level of the Chicago Fire Department, even as mayors from New York to Los Angeles are trying to combat the recession with reductions in fire-protection spending.
A Chicago News Cooperative survey of the country's 10 largest cities found that Chicago ranks near the top in the resources devoted to its fire department. With one firefighter for every 637 residents, Chicago has more firefighters per capita than every other large United States city except Houston, the C.N.C.'s analysis found.
And, taking into account its coverage area of about 230 square miles and more than 90 firehouses, Chicago's department ranked third among the 10 largest cities in the density of firehouses, behind only New York and Philadelphia. 
Rahm Emanuel has quietly visited many of Chicago's firehouses since winning the February election to succeed Mayor Richard M. Daley. But Mr. Emanuel's campaign platform for dealing with the city's perennial budget deficits made no mention of any proposals that would affect staffing in the fire department.
Asked this week to specify Mr. Emanuel's position on fire department staff levels, a spokeswoman, Chris Mather, issued a one-sentence statement: ''We have serious fiscal issues ahead of us, but we also understand how critical the dedicated firefighters in Chicago are to ensuring the safety of our city.''
Daley administration officials have rejected suggestions from the city's inspector general that the department reduce staffing from five firefighters to four in each crew, as is the norm in most other cities.
''The decline in fire deaths and fires over the years is not reason to think about cutting back the number of firefighters or firehouses,'' the fire department spokesman, Larry Langford, said in a statement this week.
Still, with the city's budget deficits exceeding $500 million every year, some fiscal experts questioned whether Mr. Emanuel could afford to avoid the politically touchy issue of fire department staffing.
Police and fire costs are to the city budget as defense spending is to the federal budget, not only in the sense that police and fire forces provide core public safety functions, but also because they make up a huge chunk of the payroll. Of the city's almost 33,000 full-time workers, roughly two-thirds are police or fire department employees. The city allocated almost $2 billion in its $6.15 billion spending plan for 2011 to public safety.
''Firefighters and other public safety personnel will have to be included in the efficiencies and possible reductions,'' said Laurence Msall, president of the Civic Federation, a local budget watchdog group that is financed largely by business interests.
''We recognize the political sensitivity, but staffing for public safety must match the actual needs rather than relying on traditional levels of staffing,'' Mr. Msall added.
Financial pressures have led to a decrease in the number of police officers (a trend that Mr. Emanuel has vowed to reverse), but the fire department has the same number of budgeted positions in Mr. Daley's 2011 budget as it did last year.
There are almost 5,200 employees in the fire department, including about 4,300 firefighters, according to city budget documents. In the last five years, the budget of the fire department has grown more than 12 percent, to $509.4 million this year.
Officials of Chicago's firefighters' union did not return calls for this article. The union, which led a 23-day strike in 1980, had endorsed Gery Chico to succeed Mr. Daley as mayor.
Mr. Hoff, who will remain as fire commissioner after Mr. Emanuel's inauguration on Monday, declined an interview request. Mr. Langford, the department spokesman, said the lower fire death rate is due in part to the department's having ''enough manpower to conduct searches while simultaneously'' fighting fires and keeping flames from spreading to other buildings.
The decline in the number of fire deaths in Chicago was part of a national trend attributed to a variety of factors, including sprinkler systems, fire alarms and smoke detectors. City statistics for structure fires show a drop from almost 5,700 in 1996 to less than 2,500 in 2008.
But the number of medical calls to the fire department increased at the same time that the number of fires dropped, Mr. Langford noted.
Nicholas Sposato, a 17-year firefighter who won election last month to a City Council seat, said he favored maintaining fire staffing levels. After winning the aldermanic race in the 36th Ward, Mr. Sposato gave up his job at the firehouse on Cumberland Avenue, on the far Northwest Side.
''We would get a lot of runs they call 'assist the invalid,' '' Mr. Sposato said. ''I'm all for doing stuff like that for the citizens. Some people may think it's silly, but you have seniors with one kid in Naperville and the other in Lake Zurich. When something happens, we need to be there, even if you just pick them up and sit them in a chair, or get them in their bed.''
Providing that level of service is particularly expensive because the city's contract with the firefighters union requires five firefighters on every apparatus. In a report issued in October, Inspector General Joseph Ferguson estimated that shifting to four firefighters per piece of equipment could save the city more than $63 million a year.
Personnel costs, including benefits, for each firefighter are more than $100,000 a year, according to the report.
The inspector general noted that the National Fire Protection Association recommends a minimum of four fighters in each crew. Of the 10 largest cities, only New York and Los Angeles regularly staff both engines and trucks with at least five firefighters, the C.N.C.'s survey found.
But other factors, such as density of development, could require greater staffing levels than the four-firefighter minimum, said Ken Willette, the public fire protection division manager for the national association, which is based in Quincy, Mass. ''We would defer to the commissioner to apply our standard'' to Chicago, Mr. Willette said.
Mr. Langford said Chicago needs larger crews because it has many apartment buildings and multistory public schools and nursing homes. Even in largely residential areas of the city's bungalow belt, Mr. Langford said, homes ''are often very close together,'' requiring more firefighters than the minimum standard.
He pointed to studies showing that four-person crews were only 65 percent as efficient as having five firefighters in a team. ''That translates into minutes saved,'' Mr. Langford said, ''which is lives and property saved.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chicago fire officials said they've been able to reduce fire deaths by having enough resources to conduct searches while simultaneously fighting fires and keeping flames from spreading. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW A. NELLES FOR CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) (A23B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIRE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (78%); FIRES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); RANKINGS (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (65%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (64%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



403 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: At Google, the Book Tour Becomes Big Business

BYLINE: By KATHARINE MIESZKOWSKI. 
kmieszkowski@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
When Tina Fey visited the Bay Area in April on her book tour for ''Bossypants,'' she made just two stops. She gave an interview before a sold-out crowd at the Orpheum Theater, as part of the City Arts & Lectures series. And she dropped by the Mountain View headquarters of Google.
At an Authors@Google ''fireside chat,'' Ms. Fey, the ''30 Rock'' creator and star, had a friendly conversation with Eric Schmidt, the company's executive chairman, in front of an audience of hundreds of employees who greeted her with a standing ovation.
As Google's reach into many aspects of media production and distribution grows ever greater, A-list authors, actors, musicians and others are taking part in the company's six-year-old on-campus speaker series. 
Lady Gaga recently shared the stage with Marissa Mayer, the company's vice president for location and local services, as did Christy Turlington, the supermodel turned documentary director. The YouTube video of ''Google Goes Gaga'' has been viewed more than 1.5 million times.
The unlikely spectacle of technology executives chatting up celebrities talk-show-style originated as part of Google's effort to create a quasi-collegiate atmosphere on its campus. The events increasingly dovetail with Google's interests in publishing, broadcasting, music distribution and other media businesses. The company is selling ''Bossypants'' as a Google e-book for $12.99 in its online bookstore, which it opened in December.
For authors and other creative professionals, an appearance at the Googleplex, the company's sprawling complex of office buildings, is good business -- but nonetheless conjures some mixed emotions in light of Google's complicated relationship with content creators. The company is involved in a bitter lawsuit over its efforts to scan all of the world's books and make them available online, and has long stood accused of unfairly profiting from work that is excerpted and indexed by the company's search services.
''I think it's a great thing that they're doing this,'' Chris Clarke, a natural history and environmental writer, said of the talks. ''I don't think that it clears their karma as far as trying to become the sole-source provider of all intellectual property everywhere.''
The speaker series began in 2005 with the New Yorker writers Malcolm Gladwell and James Surowiecki as its first two guests and has since featured hundreds of authors, musicians, chefs, economists and politicians.
Google employees involved in the program say that it evolved out of employees' interests and at their initiative.
''The program was a grass-roots effort that started when a few Googlers realized that some remarkable people were passing through the halls of the Googleplex,'' said Ann Farmer, an information engineer. She is one of more than two dozen employee volunteers who organize the events, which are now held three to five times a week.
Since 2005, more than 1,000 guests have appeared. Garry Kasparov, the chess master, and Jesse Ventura, the former governor of Minnesota, are among some 600 authors, mostly of nonfiction, who have participated. The list includes a number of authors who have written books about Google.
Talks now take place at Google offices around the world, with employees from 18 offices participating via videoconferencing. At larger events, employees use Google Moderator software, which fields questions from the audience, ranking the most popular ones.
In the early days of the series, the employees had to cajole speakers to attend, working personal connections, since the company did not pay an honorarium. But the program gained traction, with some talks drawing more than a million viewers on YouTube. ''Let's put it this way,'' said Ms. Farmer. ''The tables have turned.''
As of April 1, Cliff Redeker, 27, is the company's official ''speakers specialist.'' He used to organize author visits in his spare time as a support specialist, but now his full-time job is dedicated to the speaker series.
The series has made the Googleplex an increasingly important stop for authors promoting their work in the Bay Area, as many major bookstores that featured readings have closed.
''It's not going to replace bookstore events,'' said Larry Weissman, a literary agent in Brooklyn, ''but if I have an author going to San Francisco, I always want my author to stop in at Google and do an event there as well.''
The Google books lawsuit, though, combined with a broader concern that the Internet is undermining the ability of authors to get paid for their work, remains a big issue for some.
As of last October, Google Books had already scanned more than 15 million titles from more than 100 countries in 400 languages. On March 22, a federal judge threw out a settlement agreement between Google and groups representing authors and publishers. The Authors Guild had filed a class-action lawsuit against the company over copyright infringement.
Ellen Ullman, a former software engineer and author of ''Close to the Machine'' and ''The Bug,'' is a member of the Authors Guild, and she sees the speakers program as a way to ''soften the blow.''
She said, from Google's perspective, it is '' 'Look, see? We're not making money off of you. We're promoting you.' ''
The YouTube factor also introduces a novel dynamic.
''You know this is going to be videotaped, and there is a sense that you're speaking for posterity,'' said Christopher McDougall, the author of ''Born to Run,'' who has appeared at the company's offices in Mountain View and New York. ''With the Google events, it was more about talking to the camera than talking to the people.''
Typically, some employees have their laptops open during the talk, and the guest speaks not just to them but also to a future audience on YouTube.
Sherry Turkle, author of ''Alone Together,'' who directs the M.I.T. Initiative on Technology and Self, appeared at Google's office in New York to promote her book. Yet she says, ''We shouldn't kid ourselves that going on YouTube to watch an author is the same thing as going to a bookstore.''
For many authors, though, it's all good. T. J. Stiles, the Pulitzer Prize-winning author of ''The First Tycoon: The Epic Life of Cornelius Vanderbilt,'' who is on the executive council of the Authors Guild, said of the speaker series: ''That's Google focusing on authors, not just addressing books as the subject of an information aggregation operation. It's a healthy development.''
For one Bay Area independent bookstore, the program has been a boon. Books Inc. provides books for the events held at the Mountain View campus. At most talks, employees can buy the books at a deep discount, because Google subsidizes the purchases. For some special events, the company simply buys the books and gives them away.
Having a chance to attend the talks is a great perk for Googlers that reinforces the sense that their work, and technology in general, is driving the cultural conversation in a way it never has before.
''This didn't happen in Web 1.0,'' said Mike Vorhaus, president of Magid Advisors, a division of Frank N. Magid Associates, who was a consultant to Excite in the late 1990s. ''I never saw a single celebrity ever.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Food Network host Alton Brown spoke at a 2009 event that was part of the Google speakers series, now six years old. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEROMY HENRY) (A23A)
T. J. Stiles is on the executive council of the Authors Guild, which sued Google over copyrights. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE BAY CITIZEN)
 Cliff Redeker, Google's first full-time ''speakers specialist.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) (A23B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); FILM (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (74%); MUSIC (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (74%); BOOKSTORES (73%); POLITICS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (67%); INTERNET RETAILING (64%); OFFICE PROPERTY (63%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (62%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (52%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (97%); KARMA AS (62%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (97%); NAICS333414 HEATING EQUIPMENT (EXCEPT WARM AIR FURNACES) MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3433 HEATING EQUIPMENT, EXCEPT ELECTRIC & WARM AIR FURNACES (62%)

PERSON: TINA FEY (88%); ERIC E SCHMIDT (79%); MARISSA MAYER (71%); LADY GAGA (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



404 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Indian and Afghan Leaders Forge Deeper Ties in Meeting

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN and SANGAR RAHIMI; An Afghan employee of The New York Times contributed reporting from Helmand Province.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- Afghanistan and India agreed to move ahead on a strategic partnership framework during a visit to the Afghan capital by India's prime minister on Thursday, just weeks after a visit from the prime minister of Pakistan, India's archrival. 
The agreement, which is still in the drafting stages, would center on economic development but would also include an educational component. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh also announced that India would invest an additional $500 million on projects here, bringing its total investment in Afghanistan to $2 billion.
Coming on the heels of a visit by much of Pakistan's civilian and military leadership, including Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani, the Indians' trip was a reminder of how much Pakistan and India are competing for geopolitical advantage in Afghanistan, and it underscored President Hamid Karzai's efforts to court the two countries. It has been a difficult balancing act because they are so fiercely antagonistic toward each other.
Mr. Karzai took care to nod to Pakistan on Thursday even as he was thanking Mr. Singh. ''Afghanistan wants a good relationship with Pakistan, a friendly and brotherly relationship with Pakistan,'' he said. ''And His Excellency, the prime minister of India, had the same view about the region. And our goal is to bring a peaceful and prosperous life for the people of the region.''
India has focused on helping Afghanistan with economic investment and development, including the construction of a new Parliament building, and road and electrical projects. Several Indian companies are bidding for the right to develop the vast iron ore deposits in the Hajigak area of Bamian Province. The Pakistanis, however, suspect that India uses its presence here to spy on Pakistan.
Mr. Gilani had suggested during his visit that Pakistan and Afghanistan could help each other on a number of unspecified economic development projects and in the fight against terrorism. It subsequently emerged that Pakistani officials had also suggested to the Afghan officials that they move closer to China, implicitly lessening their reliance on the United States, and turn more to Pakistan for military support like training the Afghan Army.
At almost the same time as the leaders were meeting, British soldiers in Helmand Province were playing soccer with Afghan federal police officers in a game that turned deadly after a dispute, said the Helmand police chief, Mohammed Hakim Angaar. One of the officers picked up a gun and shot at the soldiers, killing at least one of them and wounding three, General Angaar said. A spokesman for the British in Helmand confirmed the casualties to Afghan journalists.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan, right, and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India at a news conference Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AHMAD MASOOD/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (93%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); ARMIES (76%); ARMED FORCES (74%); SOCCER (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); POLICE FORCES (66%); TERRORISM (62%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (88%); HAMAD KARZAI (88%); YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%) INDIA (99%); AFGHANISTAN (96%); PAKISTAN (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



405 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Seniors, Guns And Money

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
This has to be one of the funniest political stories of recent weeks: On Tuesday, 42 freshmen Republican members of Congress sent a letter urging President Obama to stop Democrats from engaging in ''Mediscare'' tactics -- that is, to stop saying that the Republican budget plan released early last month, which would end Medicare as we know it, is a plan to end Medicare as we know it.
Now, you may recall that the people who signed that letter got their current jobs largely by engaging in ''Mediscare'' tactics of their own. And bear in mind that what Democrats are saying now is entirely true, while what Republicans were saying last year was completely false. Death panels! 
Well, it's time, said the signatories, to ''wipe the slate clean.'' How very convenient -- and how very pathetic.
Anyway, the truth is that older Americans really should fear Republican budget ideas -- and not just because of that plan to dismantle Medicare. Given the realities of the federal budget, a party insisting that tax increases of any kind are off the table -- as John Boehner, the speaker of the House, says they are -- is, necessarily, a party demanding savage cuts in programs that serve older Americans.
To explain why, let me answer a rhetorical question posed by Professor John Taylor of Stanford University in a recent op-ed article in The Wall Street Journal. He asked, ''If government agencies and programs functioned with 19% to 20% of G.D.P. in 2007'' -- that is, just before the Great Recession -- ''why is it so hard for them to function with that percentage in 2021?''
Mr. Taylor thought he was making the case for not increasing spending. But if you know anything about the federal budget, you know that there's a very good answer to his question -- an answer that clearly demonstrates just how extremist that no-tax-increase pledge really is. For here's the quick-and-dirty summary of what the federal government does: It's a giant insurance company, mainly serving older people, that also has an army.
The great bulk of federal spending that isn't either defense-related or interest on the debt goes to Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. The first two programs specifically serve seniors. And while Medicaid is often thought of as a poverty program, these days it's largely about providing nursing care, with about two-thirds of its spending now going to the elderly and/or disabled. By my rough count, in 2007, seniors accounted, one way or another, for about half of federal spending.
And in case you hadn't noticed, there will soon be a lot more seniors around because the baby boomers have started reaching retirement age.
Here are the numbers: In 2007, there were 20.9 Americans 65 and older for every 100 Americans between the ages of 20 and 64 -- that is, the people of normal working age who essentially provide the tax base that supports federal spending. The Social Security Administration expects that number to rise to 27.5 by 2020, and 31.7 by 2025. That's a lot more people relying on federal social insurance programs.
Nor is demography the whole story. Over the long term, health care spending has consistently grown faster than the economy, raising the costs of Medicare and Medicaid as a share of G.D.P. Cost-control measures -- the very kind of measures Republicans demonized last year, with their cries of death panels -- can help slow the rise, but few experts believe that we can avoid some ''excess cost growth'' over the next decade.
Between an aging population and rising health costs, then, preserving anything like the programs for seniors we now have will require a significant increase in spending on these programs as a percentage of G.D.P. And unless we offset that rise with drastic cuts in defense spending -- which Republicans, needless to say, oppose -- this means a substantial rise in overall spending, which we can afford only if taxes rise.
So when people like Mr. Boehner reject out of hand any increase in taxes, they are, in effect, declaring that they won't preserve programs benefiting older Americans in anything like their current form. It's just a matter of arithmetic.
Which brings me back to those Republican freshmen. Last year, older voters, who split their vote almost evenly between the parties in 2008, swung overwhelmingly to the G.O.P., as Republicans posed successfully as defenders of Medicare. Now Democrats are pointing out that the G.O.P., far from defending Medicare, is actually trying to dismantle the program. So you can see why those Republican freshmen are nervous.
But the Democrats aren't engaging in scare tactics, they're simply telling the truth. Policy details aside, the G.O.P.'s rigid anti-tax position also makes it, necessarily, the enemy of the senior-oriented programs that account for much of federal spending. And that's something voters ought to know.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); AGING (88%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TAX LAW (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); MEDICAID (56%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



406 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Uncertain Leadership Puts Strain On Overhaul

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM; Edward Wyatt contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When federal financial regulators next gather to compare notes and coordinate plans, one of the requirements of a banking law intended to prevent the next financial crisis, 5 of the 10 seats at the table will most likely be empty or filled by caretakers.
The Obama administration has not announced nominees for several positions that Congress created last summer, nor has it nominated new heads for three agencies, including for an imminent vacancy at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
As a result, temporary leaders tapped by the president increasingly are responsible for the vast overhaul of financial regulations, raising concerns that their decisions will prove more vulnerable to political pressure than permanent leaders insulated by Senate confirmation to a fixed term.
''I look back on my last five years and all the tough decisions I had to make, and if I'd been in an acting capacity, it would have been very inhibiting to me in making some of the tough decisions I had to do,'' Sheila C. Bair, who in early June will complete her term as chairwoman of the F.D.I.C., told the Senate Banking Committee on Thursday. 
The vacancies have accumulated in part because Senate Republicans have blocked votes on nominees for a wide range of positions. The White House, in turn, has not rushed to add names to the list. In one case, it has temporarily circumvented the Senate by giving the Harvard professor Elizabeth Warren acting responsibility for a new agency focused on consumer financial protection.
The White House also appointed an acting director for the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees the mortgage finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The agency has operated without a permanent head since August 2009. And since August, 2010, an acting director also has run the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which oversees most of the nation's largest banks.
A new position on the Federal Reserve Board, vice chairman for supervision, has remained vacant since it was created last summer. So has a seat on the council of regulators designated for someone with insurance expertise.
Amy Brundage, a White House spokeswoman, said that President Obama would announce nominees for the positions ''as soon as possible.''
''The president is looking for strong, well-qualified candidates who can lead these institutions to protect American consumers and taxpayers, while ensuring the stability of an American economy emerging from the worst recession since the Great Depression,'' she said.
The White House soon plans to nominate a replacement for Ms. Bair at the F.D.I.C., according to people familiar with the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity because no plans had been publicly announced. The front-runner is Martin J. Gruenberg, currently the agency's vice chairman, who worked for years as a Democratic staff member on the Senate Banking Committee.
A decision also is close on a nominee for comptroller of the currency, those people said.
The lack of permanent leadership is a significant handicap, according to current and former regulators. It is fairly easy to keep doing the same things, but much harder to navigate unexpected difficulties or to consider new ideas.
And agencies are being asked to do both of those things as perhaps never before.
The sweeping overhaul of financial regulations passed into law last year requires agencies to write hundreds of rules, an unprecedented task, even as they grapple with the unfamiliar financial landscape left by the crisis.
John Walsh, the acting comptroller of the currency, said that Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner had encouraged him to do the job as if it were, indeed, his job.
''But the fact is that I have said to him and have said repeatedly that I do think it's very important for independent supervisory agencies to have nominated and confirmed heads in place,'' Mr. Walsh said Thursday at the same Senate hearing. ''It's important for independence and for the perception of independence.''
Senator Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat, said Thursday that the absence of leadership was complicating the work of identifying ''systemically important'' financial firms that could pose a threat to the broader economy.
''We need strong nominees who will not be afraid to take bold steps to prevent a new financial crisis,'' Mr. Brown said. Senators from both parties urged regulators at a hearing Thursday to offer more detailed criteria for designating such firms, which will be subject to stricter regulation.
Bank holding companies with more than $50 billion in assets automatically fall under the designation, according to the Dodd-Frank law approved last year. But there is no clear standard for selecting other kinds of financial firms like insurance companies, hedge funds and investment managers.
Proposals issued by regulators in January ''lacked the necessary specificity that we need to understand how this process is going to unfold,'' Senator Pat Toomey, a Pennsylvania Republican, said at the hearing. Senator Mark Warner, a Democrat from Virginia, agreed. ''We've got to give some more clarity here, the sooner the better.''
Regulators, racing against a January 2012 deadline to complete the work, told the committee that they agreed more details were necessary, and that they hoped to release a package of proposed rules this summer.
But Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said regulators still would need to make subjective decisions in some cases.
''I don't think we can provide an exact formula that will apply mechanically without any application of judgment,'' said Mr. Bernanke who played a leading role along with Mr. Geithner in the government's bailout of certain banks and financial institutions in 2008.
The difficulty of appointing regulators to make those decisions was underscored in December, when Senate Republicans blocked the nomination of Joseph A. Smith Jr., the commissioner of banking in North Carolina, to lead the housing finance agency.
''We need a watchdog, not a lapdog,'' Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama, the ranking Republican on the banking committee, said in voting against the committee's decision to send Mr. Smith's nomination to the Senate floor.
After losing that vote 10 to 6, Republicans refused to allow a vote on the nomination, and Mr. Smith, bowing to the inevitable, withdrew.
Last week, Senate Republicans went one step further, announcing in a letter to Mr. Obama that they would not consider any nominee to lead the new consumer protection agency until Democrats agreed to reduce the agency's powers by rewriting the Dodd-Frank law that created the agency last year.
''We are simply asking the president to support common-sense reforms that provide the accountability absent in the current structure,'' Mr. Shelby said in a statement last week.
Tim Johnson, the chairman of the banking committee, a Democrat from South Dakota, said Thursday that he was ''increasingly concerned'' by the Republican position.
''Not having strong individuals in place at the agencies as we continue to implement Dodd-Frank,'' he said, ''seems to me to be detrimental to our fragile economic recovery and financial stability.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Neal Wolin of the Treasury, Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, Sheila C. Bair, of the F.D.I.C., Mary L. Schapiro of the S.E.C., Gary Gensler of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and John Walsh, acting comptroller of the currency. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (66%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (66%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (84%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (84%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (66%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (66%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (66%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (79%); SHEILA BAIR (77%); MARY L SCHAPIRO (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); BEN BERNANKE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



407 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2691 words

HEADLINE: Buying a Trump Property, or So They Thought

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
For many middle-class Americans, it is the most coveted brand in real estate, synonymous with sky-piercing luxury and can't-miss quality: Donald J. Trump.
Far from the New York City towers that bear his name, in cities like Tampa, Fla., and Philadelphia, house hunters clamor to buy into his developments, sometimes exhausting credit lines and wiping out savings for a chance to own a piece of his gilded empire.
But as Mr. Trump, who is weighing a bid for the White House, has zealously sought to cash in on his name, he has entered into arrangements that home buyers describe as deliberately deceptive -- designed, they said, to exploit the very thing that drew them to his buildings: their faith in him.
Over the last few years, according to interviews and hundreds of pages of court documents, the real estate mogul has aggressively marketed several luxury high-rises as ''Trump properties'' or ''signature Trump'' buildings, with names like Trump Tower and Trump International -- even making appearances at the properties to woo buyers. The strong indication of his involvement as a developer generated waves of media attention and commanded premium prices. 
But when three of the planned buildings encountered financial trouble, it became clear that Mr. Trump had essentially rented his name to the developments and had no responsibility for their outcomes, according to buyers. In each case, he yanked his name off the projects, which were never completed. The buyers lost millions of dollars in deposits even as Mr. Trump pocketed hefty license fees.
Those who bought the apartments in part because of the Trump name were livid, saying they felt a profound sense of betrayal, and more than 300 of them are now suing Mr. Trump or his company.
''The last thing you ever expect is that somebody you revere will mislead you,'' said Alex Davis, 38, who bought a $500,000 unit in Trump International Hotel and Tower Fort Lauderdale, a waterfront property that Mr. Trump described in marketing materials as ''my latest development'' and compared to the Trump tower on Central Park in Manhattan.
''There was no disclaimer that he was not the developer,'' Mr. Davis said. The building, where construction was halted when a major lender ran out of money in 2009, sits empty and unfinished, the outlines of a giant Trump sign, removed long ago, still faintly visible.
Mr. Davis is unable to recover any of his $100,000 deposit -- half of which the developer used for construction costs.
Another casualty: his admiration for Mr. Trump, whose books and television show Mr. Davis had devoured. ''I bought into an idea of him,'' he said, ''and it wasn't what I thought it was.''
Alan Garten, a lawyer for Mr. Trump's company, said that, regardless of what Mr. Trump himself or any marketing materials had suggested, his role was disclosed in lengthy purchasing documents that buyers should have carefully scrutinized. But in an interview, Mr. Garten acknowledged that, ''without a lawyer, it can be difficult'' to understand such documents. He suggested that the housing market collapse, not Mr. Trump, was the cause of their troubles.
''They are people who lost money and are looking for somebody to blame,'' Mr. Garten said.
Mr. Trump's Midas touch as a businessman, sometimes real, other times perceived, is central to his presidential aspirations, which have become increasingly hard for Republicans to ignore, even as some of them cringe at his blunt remarks and boastfulness. In the next month, he is scheduled to visit two key primary-season states, South Carolina and Iowa, as he further tests the waters. ''I have made myself very rich,'' he said recently, sitting in his palatial suite at the Trump International Hotel in Las Vegas. ''And I would make this country very rich.''
But regardless of whether Mr. Trump ultimately seeks the presidency, his attempt to promote himself as a savvy financial manager who can lead America out of its economic rut is bringing new scrutiny to his own business practices.
Despite high-profile stumbles, like the bankruptcy of Atlantic City casinos bearing his name, Mr. Trump has nurtured plenty of successful projects, in real estate and beyond: memberships to his golf clubs sell briskly, his men's suits are a hit at Macy's, and his NBC series, ''The Apprentice,'' is a ratings smash. Mr. Trump, in an interview, said the show had earned him well over $100 million.
Yet in recent years, as his brand has experienced an ''Apprentice''-fueled resurgence, it appears that Mr. Trump, 64, has taken an expansive approach to putting his name on products big and small. There are Trump mattresses, Trump ties, Trump video games, Trump bottled water and Trump chocolates (designed to resemble bars of gold, silver and copper.)
But it is Mr. Trump's real estate and education products that have enticed many Americans to invest life savings and dreams of quick riches. And it is with these products, according to a string of lawsuits and complaints filed around the country, that Mr. Trump has disappointed his fans most deeply.
Opening a 'University'
As the American housing market climbed toward its peak, in 2005, Mr. Trump opened a for-profit school, called Trump University, to impart his wisdom about real estate and moneymaking to the general public.
In marketing materials, he promised students that his handpicked team of instructors would ''teach you better than the best business school,'' according to the transcript of a Web video. The same year, Mr. Trump licensed his name to an affiliated program, called the Trump Institute, which offered similar classes.
Dozens of complaints about both schools have rolled into the offices of attorneys general in Florida, Texas, New York and Illinois, officials said. And last year, the Better Business Bureau gave Trump University a D-minus, the second-lowest grade on its scale, after it fielded 23 complaints.
A lawsuit filed in 2010 by four dissatisfied former students, who are seeking class-action status, accuses Trump University of offering classes that amounted to extended ''infomercials,'' ''selling nonaccredited products,'' and ''taking advantage of these troubled economic times to prey on consumers' fears.''
According to the court papers, the university used high-pressure sales tactics to enroll students in classes that cost up to $35,000, at times encouraging them to raise their credit card limits to pay for them. It promised intensive one-on-one instruction that often failed to materialize. And its mentors recommended investments from which they stood to profit.
''It was almost completely worthless,'' said Jeffrey Tufenkian, 49, who along with his wife, Sona, enrolled in a $35,000 ''Gold Elite'' class at Trump University to jump-start a career in real estate.
Mr. Tufenkian, who lives in Portland, Ore., was especially drawn to what Trump University described as a year-long mentorship. But he said that it amounted to a real estate expert from California taking him on a tour of homes in Portland that he could have seen on his own, for free.
At one point, he said, the mentor suggested an educational trip to Home Depot, an idea he found comical; at another, he said, the mentor recommended a sales technique (selling the option to buy a house), that several lawyers later told Mr. Tufenkian he was ineligible to perform because he lacked a real estate license. He recalled how, during a much cheaper Trump class on foreclosure, he and his wife were encouraged by instructors to raise their credit card limits, ostensibly in anticipation of investing in real estate, only to have the accounts maxed out with the purchase of the next $35,000 class, a charge mirrored in the lawsuit. The fee, and the resulting credit card interest payments, have wiped out much of the couple's savings. Mr. Tufenkian's requests for a refund have been rejected.
''You can understand how a business makes mistakes,'' he said, ''but a proper business will do what it takes to make it right. Trump University has no interest in taking care of its customers.''
George Sorial, a managing director and lawyer at the Trump Organization, the company that oversees Mr. Trump's various businesses, said that the school had a ''very generous'' refund policy -- and that less than two percent of students ask for their money back.
Mr. Sorial called claims that instructors took students on tours of Home Depot and asked students to raise their credit limits ''ridiculous'' and ''unsubstantiated.'' He said mentors were prohibited from profiting from their advice. According to student evaluations, he said, Trump University has a 97 percent customer satisfaction rate with its 11,000 paying students around the country.
''I guarantee that if you went out and surveyed Harvard grads, you would find some who are not happy. It's inevitable,'' he said. ''You cannot look at the exception to the rule.''
Students said the evaluations must be put into context: they were told to fill them out using their names, often in the presence of the instructors they were assessing. Mr. Tufenkian, for example, said he gave high marks to the program after his mentor told him he would not leave until Mr. Tufenkian did so. ''I had to fill it out right in front of him,'' Mr. Tufenkian said.
The school has repeatedly sought to use such evaluations to raise questions about the credibility of unhappy former students. After Tarla Makaeff, who spent about $37,000 on Trump classes, joined the lawsuit against the school, the company released raw footage of a Trump University videographer approaching her in a hotel conference room, asking her to assess the program and her mentors. On the video, her mentors can be seen standing beside her, clearly within earshot. While warning that ''we just got started,'' Ms. Makaeff, 37, calls the mentors ''great'' and ''awesome.''
In retrospect, Ms. Makaeff said, university employees ''were trying to cover themselves,'' by putting her on tape. Trump University is now suing her for defamation, seeking at least $1 million in damages for her public criticism of the school in letters, e-mail and online. ''That just shows you how low they will go to silence people,'' Ms. Makaeff said.
The school's troubles are intensifying. Last year, the Texas attorney general, Greg Abbott, opened a civil investigation into Trump University's practices. Since then, the company has agreed not to operate in Texas indefinitely, said Thomas Kelley, a spokesman for the attorney general. (Mr. Sorial said there was no formal agreement.)
And last March, New York state officials demanded that Trump University change its name, saying its use of the word university ''is misleading and violates New York education law,'' joining Maryland, which issued a similar warning in 2008.
The school has since changed its name to the Trump Entrepreneur Initiative, but has not held a new class in seven months as it reworks its curriculum. ''It's on hiatus,'' Mr. Trump said in an interview.
The Trump Institute, meanwhile, shut down in 2009. ''It doesn't meet our standards,'' Mr. Sorial said. ''Our standards are very high.''
Selling the Name
Even as his empire has expanded into reality television and the clothing aisle, Mr. Trump remains, at least in the public imagination, primarily a real estate developer.
But to a remarkable degree over the last five years, Mr. Trump has retreated from that role, becoming, instead, a highly-paid licensor, who leases his five-letter brand name to other developers in Toronto, Honolulu, Dubai and even his own backyard, New York City.
The arrangements allowed Mr. Trump, who is notoriously competitive, to remain a player in the world of big-city builders without risking his own money -- a prospect that seemed especially appealing as the economy began to crater.
''When things got over-inflated in the world,'' Mr. Trump's son Donald Jr., said in an interview, ''we removed ourselves from the ground-up development world, where we are risking a lot more.''
''We switched more to a license model,'' he said, describing several of the projects, including the Honolulu building, as ''big successes.''
However it was that kind of license deal -- in places like Baja California, Mexico, and in Tampa and Fort Lauderdale, Fla. -- that led to disappointment and anger among those seeking to buy a home carrying the Trump name, according to the lawsuits.
John Robbins, 62, a retired lieutenant colonel in the United States Army who is among those suing Mr. Trump, recalled being dazzled by the amenities available in the nearly 2,000-square-foot apartment that he and his wife, Rosanna, bought six years ago at the Trump Tower Tampa: granite countertops, sweeping views of the Tampa Bay, and room service from a high-end ground-floor restaurant.
The most important amenity of all, though, was the name on the side of the building. ''With the Trump name,'' Mr. Robbins said of his $756,000 unit, ''we thought it would be a quality building and address.''
The marketing materials left little doubt that Mr. Trump was a driving force behind the 52-story tower: ''We are developing a signature landmark property,'' Mr. Trump declared in a news release unveiling it, which described him as a partner. In a marketing video, Mr. Trump called it ''my first project on the Gulf of Mexico,'' and even showed up to mingle with potential buyers at a lavish, catered event. ''I love to build buildings,'' Mr. Robbins recalled Mr. Trump telling the audience.
A confidential agreement, later made public in court filings, told a different story: Mr. Trump was not one of the developers or builders. For $4 million, plus a share of any profits, he had licensed his name. As for the mingling with buyers? He was required to do it, up to two times, in the agreement, which spelled out that the appearances last ''for no more than six (6) working hours each.''
According to the document, the very existence of the license agreement was to be kept confidential. And it remained that way, buyers said, long after they bought their units. ''If at any point I had known this, I would have walked away,'' said Mr. Robbins, who put down a deposit of about $150,000 -- half of which, under Florida law, the developer could use for construction costs.
A similar situation unfolded in Baja, where Mr. Trump licensed his name to another glamorous-sounding waterfront property: the Trump Ocean Resort Baja.
As financing for the building froze in 2008 and the developer missed key deadlines, Mr. Trump exercised his right to terminate the license agreement and remove his name. According to a lawsuit, the partners behind the deal burned through $32 million worth of buyer deposits, even though little, if any, construction was done.
One of the buyers suing Mr. Trump, Donald Isbell, said he has lain awake countless nights trying to figure out how he erred. He has lost his entire deposit of $147,000. ''I have come to the conclusion,'' he said, ''that what I did wrong was to trust Donald Trump.''
Mr. Trump and his advisers seem unapologetic about how they handled the three deals. Asked, in a deposition with lawyers for the Tampa buyers, if he would be responsible for any shoddy construction, Mr. Trump replied that he had ''no liability,'' and said that he was unsure whether his licensing arrangements were disclosed to buyers. Pressed during the deposition as to why he did not return his license fee after the development fell apart, Mr. Trump replied: ''Well, because I had no obligation to the people that signed me to give it back.''
But what has most galled people like Mr. Robbins, who sank much of their life savings into their dream homes, was Mr. Trump's suggestion that the collapse of the project was a blessing -- because it had allowed buyers to avoid the housing crash and the resulting plunge in home values.
''They were better off losing their deposit,'' Mr. Trump said.
''Better off?'' asked Mr. Robbins, who lost $75,600, the half of his deposit spent on construction. ''No. I would be better off if he had been truthful and honest with us from the beginning. I would be better off if he returned my deposit.
''But he will never do that. He is looking out for Donald Trump and the dollar.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A billboard for a failed real estate project in Mexico to which Donald J. Trump licensed his name. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUILLERMO ARIAS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1)
Donald J. Trump spoke to Republican women's groups in Las Vegas in April, above. He has been exploring a White House run. An image from an online seminar with Trump University, right, a for-profit school he opened in 2005. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID BECKER/GETTY IMAGES)
Part of the property in Baja California, Mexico, top, where a building was planned that would carry Donald Trump's name
 little construction was done. Donald Isbell, above, is among the Baja buyers suing Mr. Trump. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (74%); LAWYERS (70%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TAMPA, FL, USA (90%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



408 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Oil Executives, Defending Tax Breaks, Say They'd Cede Them if Everyone Did

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER; Brian Knowlton contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Executives of five of the largest oil companies on Thursday defended the $2.1 billion they receive each year in tax breaks, but said they would be willing to give them up as part of a comprehensive reform of the tax code.
At a three-hour Senate Finance Committee hearing that was largely political theater interrupted occasionally by a serious tax policy discussion, the oil industry executives said their current tax breaks were not subsidies but legitimate tax deductions, shared in some cases with other industries. 
Rex W. Tillerson, chief executive of Exxon Mobil, said that the provisions, such as a tax deduction for certain types of manufacturing, were not ''special incentives, preferences or subsidies for oil and gas, but rather standard deductions applied across all businesses in the United States.''
He said that eliminating the provision just for the oil industry would be ''misinformed and discriminatory.''
Under questioning from Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, the panel's chairman, Mr. Tillerson said that he would support repeal of the manufacturing tax credit and other tax incentives, as long as all businesses were treated the same.
''Repeal it for everybody, gone,'' he said. ''Everything for everybody everywhere ought to be on the table.''
At issue was a Democratic-sponsored bill to rescind roughly $2 billion of the $4 billion in tax incentives the oil industry now enjoys annually, with the money dedicated to deficit reduction. Mr. Tillerson shared the witness stand with top executives of the four other biggest multinational oil companies, John S. Watson of Chevron; Marvin E. Odum of the United States division of Shell; H. Lamar McKay of BP America; and James J. Mulva of ConocoPhillips.
Collectively, the five companies reported more than $35 billion in first-quarter profits, and are on a pace to set record profits for the year. Their profits, their tax treatment and gasoline that in many areas is over $4 a gallon have made them juicy targets for Democrats seeking political points and painless revenue.
The bill, which is expected to come to a vote on the Senate floor next week, is unlikely to command a filibuster-proof majority in the Senate. Even if it passes, it has little chance in the Republican-dominated House, which seems more inclined to provide the oil companies more access to public lands and waters than to clamp down on their tax incentives.
The House passed the third of three Republican pro-drilling bills on Thursday. The measure would force the Interior Department to open large tracts of the Atlantic, Pacific and Arctic coasts to oil exploration and to set annual production goals. The administration and most Democrats opposed it, saying that the Deepwater Horizon accident a year ago demonstrated the dangers of offshore operations.
The Senate tax bill's chief sponsor, Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, demanded that Mr. Mulva apologize for a ConocoPhillips press release on Wednesday that called the tax proposal ''un-American.''
''I think that's beyond the pale,'' Mr. Menendez said. ''I was hoping you would come here and apologize for that.''
''Nothing was intended personally,'' Mr. Mulva said.
''So the bottom line is you're unwilling to apologize,'' Mr. Menendez said. ''So I'll continue to take offense.''
Most Republicans, along with Democratic senators from energy-producing states, appear sure to oppose the plan. One oil-state Democrat, Mary L. Landrieu of Louisiana, said this week that oil and gas subsidies accounted for less than 13 percent of all United States energy subsidies.
The ranking Republican on the finance committee, Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, suggested that Democrats were playing a cynical game, seeking to blame oil companies while, he asserted, intending to raise gasoline prices to force reduced consumption.
''So while the American people ask Congress to do something about high gas prices,'' he said, ''the response of Democrats is to rail against oil executives, to mask the fact that their policy is actually to make the price at the pump more painful.''
He called the hearing a ''dog and pony show'' and displayed a blown-up picture of a dog riding a pony, to underscore his argument that the hearing was just a chance for Democrats to score political points, without doing anything about high gas prices or a sensible energy policy.
Mr. Odum of Shell said in an interview after the hearing that he was disappointed that the discussion focused on the relatively small value of the oil industry's tax breaks and not on the broader question of how to address the deficit and expand domestic production of oil and gas.
''The piece I take the most exception to, once you get past some of the theater aspects of the setting, is that it's such a narrow view,'' he said. ''If the purpose is to address the deficit and the long-term health of the economy, the bigger picture is more important. And that is to produce more oil and gas and get the revenue streams and jobs from that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rex Tillerson, chief executive of Exxon Mobil, told the Senate Finance Committee his company's tax credits were legitimate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); TAX REFORM (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (78%); FILIBUSTER (77%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); WITNESSES (76%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (73%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (63%); LAND USE PLANNING (61%)

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%); BP AMERICA INC (53%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: REX W TILLERSON (89%); MAX BAUCUS (56%); BOB MENENDEZ (56%); JAMES MULVA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



409 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Regulators Seek Ways to Determine Which Financial Firms Are Crucial

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- One of the central reforms in the Dodd-Frank financial regulation act faces further delay after top regulators told a Senate committee on Thursday that they believed more clarity was needed on what factors determined whether a financial company was ''systemically important.'' That label would make a company subject to heightened government regulation.
A panel of officials from the Federal Reserve Board, the Treasury Department and the agencies overseeing banking and securities markets told members of the Senate Banking Committee that they would seek public comment on additional guidelines and gauges they are considering in deciding which companies will be included. 
Regulators face a January 2012 deadline to put the heightened regulatory standards in place, but there has been some hope in the financial industry and Congress that decisions about what firms fall under the designation will come sooner. That would eliminate uncertainty over the breadth of the new rule's embrace. Officials indicated that they hoped to release a package of proposed rules this summer.
The designation of systemically important financial institutions was included in the Dodd-Frank Act as a way of addressing the problem of companies being considered too big to fail. Companies deemed crucial to the stability of the broad financial system will be overseen by the Federal Reserve Board in addition to their usual regulators.
Bank holding companies with more than $50 billion in assets automatically fall under the designation. But it is expected that some insurance companies, hedge funds and other companies involved in financial and money markets might require an additional level of scrutiny to guard against threats to the banking system and financial markets.
''I think more details are necessary,'' said Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve. ''I support providing more information to the public and getting public comment.''
Mr. Bernanke said that while he doubted regulators could ''provide an exact mechanical formula that can be applied without judgment,'' they could lay out objective criteria that they consider most important in making the designation.
But the decision also requires some subjective judgment, Mr. Bernanke added, indicating that the decisions would not be so cut and dried as to eliminate questions over why one company fit the bill and another did not.
Senator Patrick J. Toomey, a Republican from Pennsylvania, urged the regulators to leave their proposals on the subject open for public comment for at least 60 days, roughly double the comment period that regulators have been using for many of the rules being drawn up to carry out aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act.
While none of the regulators would commit to that, several said they supported the idea. Mary L. Schapiro, chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, said a ''robust comment period'' would help to clear up much of the uncertainty around the ''systemically important'' designation.
The Banking Committee also voted 12-10, along party lines, to send to the full Senate the nomination of Peter A. Diamond to the board of governors of the Federal Reserve System.
It was the third time Mr. Diamond had been approved by the Senate panel, but the nomination has yet to come to a vote in the Senate. The Senate adjourned last year without acting on the second nomination, and the first nomination was returned to the White House on a procedural objection.
Republicans on the Senate committee universally opposed Mr. Diamond, an M.I.T. professor and Nobel Prize winner, raising doubts about whether Democrats could gather the 60 votes necessary to bring the nomination to a vote on the floor of the Senate.
Senator Richard C. Shelby, a Republican from Alabama, said he still viewed Mr. Diamond as ''an old-fashioned big government Keynesian'' who was not a good person to join the Fed ''at this point in our financial history.''
The Senate Banking Committee also approved several other nominations. David S. Cohen was approved as under secretary for terrorism and financial crimes in the Treasury Department on a 18-4 vote. A few senators of both parties objected to the nomination because, they said, they did not believe Mr. Cohen adequately indicated that he would support enforcement of economic sanctions against Iran.
Several other nominations were approved by the committee on a unanimous voice vote. They were: Daniel L. Glaser to be assistant secretary for terrorist financing at Treasury; Wanda Felton to be first vice president of the Export-Import Bank of the United States; and Sean Robert Mulvaney to be a director of the Export-Import Bank.
Online Correction: May 12, 2011, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly included one name among the nominees approved by the Senate Banking Committee. The committee did not vote on Timothy G. Massad's appointment to the post of assistant secretary for financial stability at Treasury.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); INSURANCE (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (75%); PAT TOOMEY (57%); MARY L SCHAPIRO (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



410 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: Syria's Government Spreads Fear With Raids and Arrests, Residents Say

BYLINE: By ANTHONY SHADID; Reporting was contributed by Hwaida Saad and an employee of The New York Times from Beirut; an employee of The Times from Damascus, Syria; and Steven Lee Myers from Nuuk, Greenland.

 BODY:
BEIRUT, Lebanon -- Syrian forces carried out raids in towns on the outskirts of Damascus and a besieged city on the coast on Thursday, as the number of detainees surged in a government campaign so sweeping that human rights groups said many neighborhoods were subjected to repeated raids and some people detained multiple times by competing security agencies.
The ferocious crackdown on the uprising, which began in March, has recently escalated, as the government braces for the possibility of another round of protests on Friday, a day that has emerged as the weekly climax in a broad challenge to the 11-year rule of President Bashar al-Assad.
Residents have reported that hundreds of detainees are being held in soccer stadiums, schools and government buildings in various towns and cities across the country, some of them arrested in door-to-door raids by black-clad forces carrying lists of activists. 
Others have said the arrests are often arbitrary, sometimes for little more than a tattered identity card, in a campaign that seems motivated to bully people to stay indoors and to restore a measure of the fear that has buttressed the Assad family's four decades of rule. Many men have been forced to sign a pledge not to protest again, residents said.
''The reaction of the authorities has excluded any possibility of having a rational solution,'' said Rassem al-Atassi, the president of the Arab Association for Human Rights in Syria, in Homs, the country's third largest-city and a center of the uprising.
Mr. Atassi himself was released last week after being detained for 10 days.
''I only see this crisis becoming worse,'' he said. ''There's no political solution.''
The brutality of the repression has led the United States and the European Union to impose some sanctions on figures in the leadership, though not on Mr. Assad himself. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton moved the United States a step closer to calling for the ouster of Mr. Assad on Thursday as she denounced the crackdown.
''The recent events in Syria make clear that the country cannot return to the way it was before,'' Mrs. Clinton said before a meeting in Greenland among Arctic nations. ''Tanks and bullets and clubs will not solve Syria's political and economic challenges.''
The Obama administration has criticized the Syrian government repeatedly and imposed some sanctions on several senior security officials, but it has not yet pursued aggressive diplomatic measures, including action at the United Nations Security Council.
Mrs. Clinton said that the United States would now pursue ''additional steps to hold Syria responsible for its gross human rights abuses.''
''There may be some who think this is a sign of strength,'' she said, ''but treating one's own people in this way is in fact a sign of remarkable weakness.''
A senior official elaborated that sanctions were being considered on additional Syrian officials. That could include Mr. Assad himself.
Bouthaina Shaaban, an adviser to Mr. Assad, said this week that Syrian officials thought that the American condemnations so far were ''not too bad.''
In the meantime, its military has besieged Dara'a, the southern town where the uprising began with protests over the arrests of youths, as well as Baniyas and Homs.
The detentions have piled up so rapidly that assembling a tally has become guesswork. Syria's National Organization for Human Rights put the number at 9,000. Wissam Tarif, the executive director of Insan, a human rights group, said his organization had recorded 8,000 people arrested as of May 3. In the past week, he said, they had recorded 2,800 more -- though, as with the National Organization, he said he suspected that the number was much higher.
''The numbers are in the thousands,'' said Khalil Maatouk, a Damascus lawyer who works with prisoners and detainees. ''Those who were released told me that the jails are packed, and they're using stadiums and government buildings to keep them all.''
The Syrian government has acknowledged the crackdown, calling it a response to an armed uprising of militant Islamists, saboteurs and even ex-convicts. American officials have acknowledged that some protesters are armed, though they are a distinct minority, and reports from refugees fleeing across the Syria-Lebanon border suggest that armed clashes between security forces and their opponents have erupted this week in Homs.
Amnesty International, based in London, said it had firsthand reports of torture and beatings of protesters detained by security forces. Ammar Qurabi, president of the National Organization for Human Rights, said people who took part in the rallies were detained, while those identified as leaders or as having chanted slogans against the government were tortured.
Indeed, human rights groups said the abuse might be part of the government's aim: many detainees are released after a few days so that they can share their experiences, spreading fear among those who might be willing to join the demonstrations.
The groups sketched a portrait of free-wheeling campaigns that sometimes seemed methodical and that other times showed little organization. Mr. Tarif said that in Baniyas, an oil industry town on the coast, security forces carried out a wave of arrests, collected information and then returned a few days later for another wave of arrests.
Other times, he said, young men were arrested, released and then picked up by a competing security branch, which still had their names on circulating lists. Some had even already signed a pledge, admittedly under duress, not to protest again. ''The local branches aren't even coordinating,'' Mr. Tarif said.
The crackdown has played out along a crescent from the Mediterranean coast through Homs to drought-stricken regions of southern Syria. On Thursday, most arrests were reported in Baniyas and the nearby town of Bayda, along with the towns on the outskirts of Damascus where protests have proved to be especially resilient. Many residents described a pattern in which the military entered first, followed by the security forces and then armed men in plain clothes, known as shabeeha.
The Syrian military said it had ended its operations in Homs, and residents reported that 10 tanks had withdrawn from the hardest-hit neighborhood, Bab Amr. After a day of shelling and gunfire, and sporadic shots heard before dawn, the area was relatively quiet on Thursday, a resident there, Abu Haydar, said by phone. ''Most of the people have left Bab Amr,'' he said. ''It's too dangerous.''
Residents fleeing Homs for the Lebanese border said some had taken up arms against the security forces in Bab Amr.
''Men are not sleeping at home,'' said Umm Amina, a 53-year-old woman who left the Homs region on Wednesday. ''They all sleep outside on the street and keep their rifles next to them to protect their women and their houses from the shabeeha.''
The government has sought to forcefully keep campuses silent in Damascus and Syria's second-largest city, Aleppo, which has been relatively quiet so far. But while students in Aleppo said that dozens of their associates had been arrested in past weeks, hundreds of people were reported to have protested Wednesday night at the university there.
''We couldn't just watch news of the daily killing in Homs, Baniyas and Dara'a,'' said a law student who gave his name as Maher. ''We are university students from all of Syria's provinces, and we want to express our sympathy with our people.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS: After Weeks of Protests, Syrian Forces Crack Down Ferociously (Sources: INSAN
 Reports by news agencies) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); POLITICS (74%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); EUROPEAN UNION (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ARAB ASSOCIATION FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%) SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LEBANON (92%); GREENLAND (79%); ARCTIC (78%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



411 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Cooperation Is Pledged By Nations Of the Arctic

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
NUUK, Greenland -- The eight Arctic nations pledged Thursday to create international protocols to prevent and clean up offshore oil spills in areas of the region that are becoming increasingly accessible to exploration because of a changing climate.
The Arctic Council -- the United States, Russia, Canada, Iceland, Denmark, Norway, Finland and Sweden -- said the protocols would be modeled on a separate agreement signed here in Nuuk on Thursday to coordinate search-and-rescue operations over 13 million square miles of ocean.
The search-and-rescue pact is the first legally binding agreement adopted by the council, which was created in 1996 to address challenges and opportunities in the Arctic spurred by the retreat of sea ice -- like growing oil and gas exploration or increasing traffic of cargo and cruise ships, which have doubled the number of tourists in the Arctic in recent years. 
The council's actions, officials said, reflected a maturation of a regional group that has been criticized for not acting more aggressively to address the myriad issues of a drastically changing Arctic. The pursuit of natural resources has sharpened regional competition and raised the possibilities of pollution and environmental catastrophes.
A senior diplomat from one of the member nations, speaking on the condition of anonymity, acknowledged that the council's governments were ''running behind events'' like increasing shipping and new exploration licenses across the Arctic.
Hillary Rodham Clinton became the first United States secretary of state to attend the council's biennial meeting of ministers, held this year in the capital of Greenland, the largely autonomous region of Denmark, where warming trends have been felt acutely. She was accompanied by the secretary of the interior, Ken Salazar, and Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska. ''We are going to raise the visibility of Arctic issues back in the United States so that we can begin to take the steps that are necessary for us,'' Mrs. Clinton said in a news conference aboard a boat in Godthab Fjord, north of Nuuk. She reiterated the administration's call to ratify the Law of the Sea Treaty.
The treaty, stalled in the Senate for decades, provides the international basis for settling territorial claims in the Arctic, and the failure to ratify it has left the United States at a disadvantage as the other Arctic nations stake out vast regions as exclusive economic zones. Ratification, she said, was ''way overdue.''
Domestic politics in the United States have often undercut American diplomacy, especially when it comes to reducing emissions blamed for climate change, something Mrs. Clinton herself acknowledged later in remarks with Denmark's foreign minister. ''It's been challenging in our political system to take the kinds of actions that we know are dictated by the science and by what we see in front of our eyes,'' she said.
Having failed to win approval for legislation to reduce emissions, she said, the Obama administration would continue to pursue executive and regulatory steps to address climate change.
The agreement governing search-and-rescue efforts -- though a treaty -- was signed by the United States under executive authority and thus does not require Senate ratification. It divides the vast Arctic region into eight zones and puts each nation in charge of coordinating any rescue efforts that might be required in some of the planet's most remote and formidable conditions.
''None of the Arctic nations today have adequate resources for search and rescue in the Arctic in light of the increasing activity that is already'' happening, David A. Balton, a deputy assistant secretary who negotiated the agreement for the American side, said before Thursday's meeting.
The same is true for the prospect of a catastrophic oil spill. United States officials said that the push for negotiated protocols for oil exploration in the Arctic stemmed from the searing experience of the Deepwater Horizon disaster last year. The administration is considering requests for exploration off Alaska.
How expansive and binding the protocols for preventing a similar disaster in the Arctic are remains to be seen as the Arctic Council begins negotiations. ''At a minimum,'' Mr. Salazar said, ''what I think we can probably do is aim at getting to a set of best practices that can be used in oil and gas exploration and production in the Arctic region.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LAW OF THE SEA (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); POLITICS (86%); EMISSIONS (78%); OIL SPILLS (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); MINERAL LEASES (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (78%); CLIMATOLOGY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); OCEANS (75%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); CRUISES (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (71%)

ORGANIZATION: ARCTIC COUNCIL (58%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); LISA MURKOWSKI (50%); KEN SALAZAR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) ARCTIC (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); GREENLAND (94%); DENMARK (94%); ICELAND (92%); NORWAY (92%); FINLAND (92%); CANADA (92%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



412 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: Victory Dance?; 
The Thread

BYLINE: PETER CATAPANO


HIGHLIGHT: Should President Obama be using the killing of Osama bin Laden as 2012 campaign selling point?

 BODY:
There was a moment in President Obama's appearance at a fundraiser Tuesday evening in Austin, Tex., that became a topic of much discussion during the week. Peter Nicholas at The Los Angeles Times reported on that moment, at which Osama bin Laden became "an applause line in a presidential campaign speech": 
Bin Laden's name came up a couple of times in Obama's address Tuesday evening at a fund-raising event in Austin, Texas. Early in Obama's appearance, someone shouted out, "Thank you for getting Bin Laden!''
Obama said that was a "case in point'' - a reason for voters to let him "finish what we started.''
Later, Obama ticked off what he described as his administration's accomplishments: lifting the ban on gays in the military; bringing troops home from Iraq. And then: "And because of the extraordinary bravery of the men and women who wear this nation's uniform and the outstanding work of our intelligence agencies,'' Obama said, "Osama bin Laden will never again threaten the United States.''
The crowd roared.
As Jackie Calmes at The Caucus, and several others, quickly observed, "While Mr. Obama gave credit to others, his implicit share in that credit now seems likely to be a staple of his political message into the 2012 election season."
Would anyone be upset, or even surprised, that Obama would use one of the most significant events of his presidency to bolster his stature on the campaign trail, where other issues - like the violent and chaotic uprisings and crackdowns in the Middle East and the relentlessly bleak economy - would likely elicit more groans than cheers?
Well, yes.
At a post at The Illinois Review, Mark Rhoads paints Obama as a "strutting egoist" who, despite a pledge to the contrary, can not resist the opportunity to gloat:
On May 4, President Barack Obama told reporter Steve Kroft on the CBS 60 Minutes program that he would not release photos of a dead Osama bin Laden because "We don't need to spike the football" because that might inflame hostility toward America from radical Muslim followers of bin Laden. But after seeing his approval rating in polls take a positive bounce of several points, suddenly spiking the ball and taking victory laps is just fine. ... Even with a bounce in popularity for his decisiveness and follow through, Obama is reverting to form. He cannot help himself from over reaching because being a strutting egotist is a lot more fun for him than being a low-profile statesman. Like so many political figures, Obama is often his own worst saboteur of his success. Humility is not something Obama ever does very well.
How'd it play in Texas? Well, no numbers on that, but Bryan Preston at PJ Tatler delivered his own take: "This president came to Texas, gave two very partisan speeches, neglected a disaster zone, and left with bags of cash. And the Democrats who hosted him and gave him a pile of money? They're fine with it, apparently. Hopefully most Texans aren't, and will remember how the state's Democrats consistently put politics ahead of the needs of their own state."
At Hot Air, Allahpundit is somewhat more understanding, but sees a reasonable limit to the mileage the president, can or should get out of this:
He didn't bring up Bin Laden himself - an audience member did - but we're going to be hearing about OBL on the trail from now until election day so we might as well get used to it. And honestly, I don't begrudge him that. Notwithstanding the fact that any Republican president, McCain included, would have also ordered the raid (Bush twice sent commandos into Pakistan after jihadis), the fact remains that it's a major feather in his cap and he needs to display those feathers to get reelected. Granted, the left would throw a screaming fit if a Republican president did the same thing, but that's just how they roll. Most of them are ridiculous frauds whose standards of behavior turn entirely on the party identification of the president. If there's any single lesson to be gleaned from the first two-plus years of O's presidency vis-a-vis counterterrorism, it's that.
Besides, this sort of thing is self-regulating. If he goes too far in spiking the ball over Bin Laden, using his corpse as a de facto campaign prop, it'll alienate the public and his polls will drop. Remember, almost two-thirds agree with the decision not to show the death photos. People don't want this being used as a trophy. If he starts treating it too much as a naked applause line, he's risking a backlash.
On the left, it's true, some gloating could be detected. At Political Animal, Steve Benen declared, it ain't bragging when it's true. And in a brief post titled "Democrats Aren't Just the 'Mommy Party' Anymore," Taylor Marsh celebrated what she sees as an actual transformation of the image of her favored party: "Presidential reelection Candidate Obama's got a new applause line and it sings, baby: "Osama bin Laden will never again threaten the United States."
Testosterone anyone?
Dick Polman of the Philadelphia Inquirer was more measured but agreed that the killing of Bin Laden had lifted burdens past from the party's back: "Obama exorcised the Democratic ghosts." He continued:
He didn't screw up - as Bill Clinton did during Black Hawk Down in '93, or as Jimmy Carter did, when those rescue helicopters burned in the desert back in '80. Much to the Republicans' dismay, there's no way they can rhetorically link Obama with the hapless Mike Dukakis, who looked like Snoopy during his infamous military tank ride in campaign '88. No, they can't say about Obama what Bush senior said about Dukakis: "I wouldn't be surprised if he thought 'naval exercise' was something you find in Jane Fonda's workout book."
Andrew Sullivan at The Daily Beast thinks Obama can take credit for what went on before the bullets flew - redirecting a Bush policy toward Bin Laden that had gone off track: "The key point in his favor, it seems to me, is not the success of the raid as such, although it seems the commander-in-chief was involved in the minutiae. It was Obama's decision on winning office immediately to reorient the C.I.A. toward getting O.B.L. after tortured lies had persuaded the Bush administration to conclude he was a figurehead and move on. You think a Republican would hesitate for one second to take credit for that?"
In one of the more thoughtful posts this week, Adam Serwer at Plum Line writes that "Obama's handling of Bin Laden's death is exactly right. "
Obama may come under fire from Republicans for mentioning Bin Laden in his speeches, but it's unwarranted. The president's actions following the announcement - from his sober speech to his relatively low-key appearance at Ground Zero - stand in stark contrast to the kind of triumphalism that the last administration engaged in. Bush's landing on the USS Abraham Lincoln in a flight suit in 2003 and then giving a speech standing in front of a "Mission Accomplished" banner typefied the kind of tasteless war pageantry that Republicans have deployed endlessly over the past ten years, particularly when it comes to 9/11. We've come a long way from the days when Bush argued that the "terrorists win" when Democrats get elected. ...
This year, the biggest story associated with the upcoming 9/11 anniversary may be the fact that the terrorist who facilitated the deaths of thousands of Americans is finally gone, on the orders of a president Republicans said was too weak to get the job done. 
If Obama continues to mention Bin Laden's death, he may face his own accusations from Republicans that he's politicizing 9/11. But as long as Obama refrains from spiking the football, so to speak, they won't have anything to complain about. 
At least for the short term, the president may merely be riding a favorable wave of public opinion after a feat that some have opposed, but whose end result few are questioning. 
In his column, Polman points to a moment 20 years earlier, the memory of which should warn against a measure of hubris in the Obama camp today:
Anyone who thinks that Barack Obama is home free in 2012 just because he whacked Osama bin Laden would be well advised to revisit 1992.
Eighteen months before that election, George H.W. Bush was assumed to be a cinch for a second term. He had just won the Gulf War by shoving Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait, and his poll approval was in the stratosphere. It appeared that '92 was going to be a national-security election, and by tradition that was considered Republican turf. But in the end, voters didn't care about Saddam. They cared about the recession, and they booted Bush from office in part because he seemed to be out to lunch.
I cite '92 as merely a cautionary tale. It's nuts to think that Obama can win re-election simply because he has established his creds as a gutsy commander in chief. In all likelihood, the hit on bin Laden won't mean squat in the voting booth. Memories are short in ADD America, and, besides, the guy can only die once. The jobless are hurting every day.

        
More Than a Resume
        
The Power in a Photo
        
The Week That Was
        
Let's Clear the Fog of War
        
The Hut Next Door

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); TERRORISM (77%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); ARMED FORCES (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%) barack obama; osama bin laden; presidential campaign; state of the union 2010; bin Laden, Osama; Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2012; Presidents and Presidency (US); Terrorism; The Thread

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (94%); BARACK OBAMA (94%) bin Laden, Osama; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (91%) TEXAS, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



413 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Podcast: Insider Trading, Robo-Signing and Food Claims; 
Economix

BYLINE: JEFF SOMMER


HIGHLIGHT: A look at the latest Weekend Business podcast, and a listen.

 BODY:
The Galleon hedge fund trial was perhaps the most prominent insider-trading case in a generation - and the conviction of Raj Rajaratnam, the hedge fund's co-founder, has been portrayed both as a great victory for the prosecution and as a chilling warning that lawbreaking, even by the very rich, will be harshly punished. 
But will the case have broader implications for Wall Street and for law enforcement? 
Peter Lattman, who covered the trial for The Times, addresses these questions in the new Weekend Business podcast. Investigations continue into the use of expert networks to provide information to hedge funds, and the use of wiretaps in the Galleon case may have a deterrent effect on those who may be tempted to violate the rules, he says. Still, the hedge fund investigations don't bear directly on the major issues that arose in the financial crisis, he says, and very few criminal cases have been brought against those who might be responsible for the economic cataclysm from which the United States is still recovering. 
In a separate conversation, Gretchen Morgenson focuses on evidence of widespread robo-signing and other shady practices by mortgage servicers who helped to force troubled borrowers out of their homes. Some of those firms have offered to pay $5 billion to settle allegations brought by state attorneys general, who have apparently demanded much more. Evidence of extensive and abusive servicing practices, meanwhile, has been amassed by the United States Trustee, the Justice Department unit that monitors the bankruptcy system. Ms. Morgenson writes about these issues in her column in Sunday Business.A dispute over the validity of food companies' health claims is the subject of a Sunday Business cover article by Natasha Singer and of a podcast conversation between Ms. Singer and David Gillen. Federal regulators, who require that statements about a food's beneficial qualities are supported by scientific evidence, have maintained that some company marketing has crossed a line.
Darwinian economics - drawn from evolutionary theory - can provide insights that are lacking in the otherwise very useful theories of behavioral economics, according to a Sunday Business column by Robert Frank, a professor at Cornell University. As he explains on the podcast, because the human brain was forged through millions of years of natural selection, many of our instinctive responses are extremely useful, even if they cause us immediate discomfort and don't make us happy. 
Worrying about getting a specific job, for example, may seem to make little sense if you will be just as happy if you never get that job. But up to a certain point, that fretting provides motivation that helps us survive as individuals and as a species. 
Surviving as investors is the subject of my Sunday Business column about gold and other commodities. I also discuss it on the podcast, recounting a parable written by John Ruskin, the English economist: 
A rich man carrying a heavy bag of gold coins on a sea voyage decides, before his ship capsizes, to tie the bag to his waist and jump overboard. He sinks with his fortune, never to be seen again. "Now, as he was sinking, had he the gold?" Ruskin asks. "Or had the gold him?"
Investors may want to ask the same question today. Gold and other commodities have been very volatile. Should they be part of a typical investment portfolio? The answer isn't simple. I explain why in the podcast and, in greater depth, in the column. 
As articles discussed in the podcast are published during the weekend, links will be added to this posting.
You can find specific segments of the podcast at these junctures: the Galleon case (35:30); news headlines (28:00); investing in commodities (25:13) functional foods (20:45); Gretchen Morgenson on mortgage abuses (13:57); Robert Frank (8:36); the week ahead (2:18).
You can download the program by subscribing from The New York Times's podcast page or directly from iTunes.

        
Podcast: Jobs, Economics and a Retail Makeover
        
Podcast: The Fed, Law Schools and Black Swans
        
Podcast: Credit Ratings, Ponzi Schemes and Data
        
Podcast: Good Euros, Bad Euros and Market Worries
        
Podcast: Stimulus, Shutdown and Executive Pay

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (92%); PODCASTING (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EVOLUTION THEORY (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); FORECLOSURE (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING (71%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (71%); WIRETAPPING (70%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (69%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (67%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (67%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (66%); SUBPRIME LENDING (66%); NUTRITION (59%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Commodities; Darwinian economics; Food; Foreclosures; Insider Trading; investing; Marketing; podcast; Weekend Business; Diet and Nutrition; Economics; Personal Finances; Subprime Mortgage Crisis

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



414 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: This Sunday: The Lure of a Dumb Rock; 
The 6th Floor

BYLINE: HUGO LINDGREN


HIGHLIGHT: This Sunday in the magazine: The Money Issue.

 BODY:
The unofficial sub-theme of our Money Issue is, What now? The worldwide recession is over (fingers crossed), and the developing world has seemingly forgotten that anything untoward ever happened. Meanwhile, in the U.S. and Europe, doubt, confusion and recriminations reign. While the recovery lurches ahead, dangers loom everywhere - the deficit battle in Washington, dissension in the European Union, oil-price shocks. For this year's Money Issue, we went out in search of narratives that reflect this mixed-up state of affairs.
It starts with gold, which, as you probably know, is in the throes of a powerful bull market, driven by equal measures of fear and greed. Gold is a strange thing, a dumb rock whose only real value is its scarcity. You can't eat, burn it, shoot it, smoke it or build with it. It is good for jewelry, yes, but its more important function is as the ultimate form of insurance. For most of the last 50 years or so, the smartest investors tended to shun it as a medieval relic. Now many hoard it, which has reignited a good, old-fashioned gold rush in obscure parts of the world like the Yukon Territory in western Canada. Gary Wolf traveled there to tell the wild tale of Shawn Ryan and Cathy Wood, a couple of rugged souls who used to forage for mushrooms before discovering a far more lucrative trade. This is the frontier of gold mania, and Gary describes it with vigor and style.
Speaking of vigor: Jim Cramer. Though we've never met, we were colleagues at New York magazine, where he was a star, and I talked to him on the phone a couple of times. Whether you agreed with his investment advice or not, there is no denying that Cramer was a natural-born columnist, a world champion of pure conviction. Which is one of the reasons he got into trouble when the financial crisis hit. On his TV show, "Mad Money," he was bellowing, "Buy, buy, buy!" as his viewers' day-trading balances headed straight into the wood chipper. Then, in early 2009, he went on The Daily Show with Jon Stewart and suffered a public beatdown so severe it was difficult to see how he would ever recover from it. Miraculously, he did, emerging from the wreckage of the financial markets and his own downgraded reputation without a hitch in his carnivalesque routines. Zev Chafets does a fine profile of him, with an intense final scene in which Cramer reveals that he has not entirely recovered from the drubbing he took.
Of the many retellings of the financial crisis, Michael Lewis's story for Vanity Fair about how Iceland overdosed on banking stands out for its blend of insight and pleasure. Now more than two years later, we thought the timing was right for a sequel, and we sent Jake Halpern to commune with the natives. Jake wrote one of my favorite stories from this magazine in 2010, about a household of squatters in Buffalo, N.Y., and he matches that piece, as well as Lewis's, with his empathetic account this week of eccentric Icelanders putting themselves and their economy back together.
For good measure, we recruited a couple of The Times's best writers on the economy, Paul Krugman and David Leonhardt, to contribute articles. And if you need a break from the theme, I highly recommend you dig into Sam Anderson's Riff on the curious case of Luca Spaghetti. Although ultimately, that, too, is a story of what people will do for money.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); RECESSION (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); WRITERS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: JIM CRAMER (67%); JON STEWART (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YUKON TERRITORY, CANADA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); ICELAND (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



415 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Hitting the Ceiling; 
Paul Krugman

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Awful -- but there are worse alternatives.

 BODY:
How bad will it be if we don't manage to raise the debt ceiling? And what should Obama's negotiating strategy be? A few thoughts.
The direct effects of hitting the ceiling would be bad enough -- sharp cutbacks in spending, which would undermine essential services, not to mention derail the economy. It's not clear to me whether there would be some wiggle room through the accumulation of arrears -- say, not actually paying workers and contractors but promising to make it up when sanity returns. But it would be ugly indeed.
What might make it even worse would be indirect effects, of two kinds.
First, US government debt plays a special role in the financial system: T-bills are the universal safe asset, the ultimate collateral. That's why, during moments of financial stress, the interest rate on T-bills has actually gone negative. Make that safe asset suddenly unsafe, and it might cause vast disruption. 
Second -- and I don't think this is getting enough attention -- failure to raise the debt limit could act as a terrible signal about the US political system.
When you look at the US fiscal position in terms of what we're capable of as a nation, it's not a big problem. Never mind those big numbers you hear about implicit liabilities; we have a big economy, too. So modest tax increases and reasonable efforts to limit health care costs could bring our long-run finances into line. 
But all this depends on our having the political will and cohesion to do what's necessary. What if it turns out that we're a banana republic, with crazy extremists having so much blocking power that we can't get our house in order?
And failing to raise the debt limit could be widely read as a signal that we are, in fact, a banana republic.
In that case, however, what should Obama do? My answer is that despite all that, he must not let himself be blackmailed. 
Partly that's because once he gives in the first time, the blackmail will never stop. Once the crazies know that they can get whatever they want by threatening to blow up the economy, they'll just keep demanding more and more. Obama just can't let that dynamic get started without setting up an even worse crash down the road.
Plus, the hard right may claim that it's worried about deficits, but it's actually deeply fiscally irresponsible. Realistically, the Ryan plan would sharply increase the deficit -- because its spending cuts are in many cases impossible, and its supposed revenue neutrality is a sham. So giving in to the right would be just as much a signal of banana-republic-hood as a temporary default.
This is going to be very ugly. But I don't think there's any way to avoid taking it all the way to the edge, and possibly over it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); POLITICS (66%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); PAUL KRUGMAN (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



416 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: Is New York Bringing You Down?; 
City Room

BYLINE: EMILY S. RUEB


HIGHLIGHT: The love/hate relationship residents have with the city is a perennial theme, but according to a statewide poll released by NY1/YNN - Marist College, there is a quantifiable disdain for living here.

 BODY:
"New York, I Love You, but You're Bringing Me Down," is the final track on LCD Soundsystem's 2007 album, "Sound of Silver." 
"Like a rat in a cage, pulling minimum wage," the lead singer woefully wails.
New Yorkers' love-hate relationship with the city is a perennial theme, but according to a statewide poll by NY1/YNN - Marist College released on Thursday, there is a quantifiable disdain for living here.
The takeaway: 26 percent of New Yorkers surveyed said they didn't plan to stay in New York State for the next five years. But it's the city's younger residents who appeared to be most adamant about leaving. More than a third of adults under 30 did not have plans to live in New York State for the long term, the report said. 
Of the residents who planned to depart, more than half cited lack of jobs, high cost of living or taxes as reasons to leave. Fewer stated a desire to move closer to family as a reason to up stakes, as well as "overcrowding, quality of life, schools or retirement," the poll found. 
The telephone survey conducted late last month also revealed New Yorkers' unsure outlook on the state's economic health. 
While 44 percent of those questioned were confident that the state would rebound, 53 percent believed "the worst is yet to come."
The survey of 941 adults 18 or over had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.
Is New York in your five-year plan? Tell us.

        
Cuomo Enjoys Strong Popularity, Poll Shows
        
New Yorkers Support Bicycle Lanes, Poll Finds
        
Bloomberg Slightly More Popular, Survey Shows
        
Paladino Says Race Is Closer Than Polls Suggest
        
Another Day, Another Poll, and a Very Different Result

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (96%); TRENDS (78%); COST OF LIVING (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%) New Yorkers; polls; Economic Conditions and Trends; Polls and Public Opinion; Marist College; New York State; Housing & Economy; People & Neighborhoods

ORGANIZATION: MARIST COLLEGE (93%) Marist College

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



417 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Good News for Grandpa; 
Economix

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Medicare and Social Security trust funds will be exhausted sooner than estimated last year, largely because of changing forecasts of longevity for the elderly.

 BODY:
Death panels notwithstanding, Grandpa gets to live a little longer.
The Medicare trust fund will probably be exhausted in 2024, five years earlier than previously estimated, according to an annual report from the trustees of the Social Security and Medicare programs. Likewise the Social Security depletion date was moved up to 2036, from 2037.
Why? The revisions are partly due to a lackluster recovery, which leaves fewer people paying the payroll taxes that finance Medicare and Social Security. But they also have to do with changing expectations about the longevity of today's elderly, and therefore how long they'll be receiving these benefits.
As Dean Baker notes, last year's report forecast that men who turned age 65 in 2010 would live, on average, and additional 18.1 years. But the new forecast gives this group an extra six months, to 18.6 years. Life expectancy for women at age 65 in 2010 has likewise been lengthened, to 20.7 years from 20.4 years, an extension of about three months and 18 days.
Predicted lifetimes were also extended for future old people, although the extension that today's old people get was bigger.
"While the assumption of longer life expectancies does raise the cost of Social Security and Medicare, the projected shortfalls in both programs are still relatively modest," Mr. Baker writes. "Measured as a share of G.D.P., the combined shortfalls are roughly half the increase in the share of G.D.P. devoted to military spending between 2000 and 2011."

        
A Time for Radical Centrists
        
Glenn Beck Does The Times Deficit Puzzle
        
Why Don't Americans Live Longer?
        
The Deficit We Want
        
Q.&A. With Gov. Mitch Daniels

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (91%); AGING (91%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%) Elderly; Forecasts; life expectancy; Longevity; Medicare; Social Security; Social Security (US)

PERSON: MITCH DANIELS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



418 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Citadel's Griffin Debates Dodd-Frank; 
DealBook

BYLINE: AZAM AHMED


HIGHLIGHT: Former Senator Chris Dodd, David Axelrod, a top presidential adviser, and Kenneth Griffin, the founder of the Citadel hedge fund, debated the merits of the regulatory overhaul law at a industry conference.

 BODY:
4:37 p.m. | Updated 
LAS VEGAS -- Many hedge fund managers are not happy with the regulatory tone in Washington.
Among their biggest concerns: the Dodd-Frank law, which was passed in the wake of the financial crisis.
The debate smoldered Friday morning on a panel at the SkyBridge Alternative Conference in Las Vegas between former Senator Christopher J. Dodd (of Dodd-Frank fame), David Axelrod, a top presidential adviser, and Kenneth C. Griffin, the founder of the Citadel hedge fund. Only Mr. Dodd asked that his comments be off the record.
Mr. Griffin, whose Chicago hedge fund manages about $10 billion, lauded aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act, including limits on leverage and the creation of an derivatives clearinghouse.
But he took aim at a central part of the law -- the designation of institutions as systemically important, or "too big to fail." He argued that once a firm was labeled as such, the assumption is the government would provide a backstop if something went wrong. 
"There's a grave concern that systemically important will create the largest moral hazard that we've seen in the financial world," Mr. Griffin told the audience.
That one landed with a thud, and was not subject to much debate. As one might expect at a hedge fund conference, Mr. Griffin enjoyed significant support from the crowd of managers and investors assembled in the Bellagio ballroom, who frequently burst into applause after his succinct commentary.
It was when Mr. Griffin later challenged the way the President Obama had increased spending since taking office -- and expressed worry about the financial stability of the United States -- that the sparks flew on the panel.
"We're on a path that's unsustainable," Mr. Griffin said. "I believe that's what's driving the public support by a number of hedge fund managers and asset managers for change in Washington."
Suffice it to say that there was disagreement. Mr. Axelrod, who grew impatient with Mr. Griffin's comments, noted that there are other concerns pressing on the president besides the national debt, including education, health care, unemployment, as well as the clean-up of the financial crisis he inherited.
Specifically, given the challenges inherited by the president, the picture was not nearly as bleak as it might have been, Mr. Axelrod noted. And fixing the deficit and fiscal situation of the United States remained a priority for the administration, he said.
One former public official who was speaking on the record, William H. Donaldson, the former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission from 2003 to 2005, did not really address that issue. When asked whether the S.E.C. had failed in its oversight given the devastation wreaked by the financial crisis, he offered modest support for his successors. 
"There's lots of blame out there for many people, including but not limited to the S.E.C.," he offered, citing the black eye the commission has suffered from Bernard L. Madoff's Ponzi scheme, which it had been warned about. "There is no excuse for that other than the tremendous burden the S.E.C. has."

        
Many Hedge Funds Still Smarting From the Financial Crisis
        
SkyBridge Capital Comes Out a Winner in Las Vegas

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TRADE SHOWS (76%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (60%) Chris Dodd; Christopher J. Dodd; Citadel; David Axelrod; Kenneth C. Griffin; Skybridge Alternative Conference; Axelrod, David; Dodd, Christopher J; Griffin, Kenneth C; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection A; Citadel Investment Group; Hedge Funds; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

ORGANIZATION: CITADEL (94%) Citadel Investment Group

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (95%); DAVID AXELROD (90%); BARACK OBAMA (57%) Axelrod, David; Dodd, Christopher J; Griffin, Kenneth C

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (91%) NEVADA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



419 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Dave Ramsey's 12% Solution; 
Bucks

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Dave Ramsey has helped thousands get out of debt, but his investment advice is sometimes questionable.

 BODY:
Thousands of people swear by the philosophy of Dave Ramsey, an up-by-the-bootstraps kind of guy who doles out tough financial advice about getting out of debt and living within your means. His legions of fans call his nationally syndicated radio show to seek his advice, attend his self-help seminars in both big arenas and small church classrooms and buy his best-selling books and DVDs. He's part entertainer, part financial coach.
Mr. Ramsey has become immensely popular by giving out advice that includes "baby steps" to financial freedom, like saving $1,000 in an emergency fund and getting rid of credit card debt. His Web site says his company, the Lampo Group, provides " biblically based, common-sense education and empowerment which gives HOPE to everyone from the financially secure to the financially distressed."
Even his critics give Mr. Ramsey credit for helping thousands of people shed debt and build savings. But when it comes to his investment advice, financial advisers say he is wildly optimistic.
Particularly troubling, they say, are his statements about the potential returns to be had by investing in the stock market, and his recommendations on how much retirees can safely withdraw from their nest eggs each year. A sort of cottage industry has arisen of advisers who refute Mr. Ramsey's claims.
Mr. Ramsey often says, for example, that mutual fund investors can expect "average annual" returns of 12 percent, based on the long-term performance of the S&P 500. From 1926 through 2010, his Web site says, the index's average annual return is 11.84 percent. "When Dave says you can expect to make 12 percent on your investments," his site says, "he's using a real number that's based on the historical average annual return of the S&P 500."
The problem, financial advisers say, is that not all investments track the S&P 500, and using average annual returns is misleading. Thomas De Jong, a financial adviser in Sioux City, Iowa, who is affiliated with Money Concepts International, explains why, in a simplified example in a report he wrote about Mr. Ramsey's claims. (Mr. De Jong noted in a telephone interview that he was initially inspired to become a financial adviser after reading one of Mr. Ramsey's books.)
Here's a synopsis of Mr. De Jong's case: Say you invest $10,000, and you double your money in the first year. You now have $20,000, or a 100 percent return. But in year two, you lose 50 percent. Your balance is back at $10,000. The "average annual return" on your investment is 25 percent (100 percent minus 50 percent divided by two years = 25 percent), but you have earned nothing.
"What is your true rate of return?" Mr. De Jong wrote in his report. "The answer, of course, is zero."
That's why knowledgeable investment advisers use "annualized" returns, also called the compound annual growth rate, to measure investments. That formula smooths out the swings in the market and shows what you've actually earned on your investment.
On a compounded basis, the S&P 500's return from 1926 through 2010 is just under 10 percent, about 2 percentage points less than the figure Mr. Ramsey points to. That might not sound like a lot, but over time the impact on your investment is enormous. Mr. De Jong gives a comparison and invites followers to check the numbers on this financial calculator.(We updated Mr. De Jong's example using 2010 numbers): Say you start with $100,000 in your investment account. After 30 years, at 12 percent annually (per Dave Ramsey's advice), you'd have $2,995,992. At 9.89 percent annually -- the S&P 500's true return from 1926 through 2010 - you'd have $1,693,344. At 6.7 percent annually -- the true S&P 500 rate, after adjusting for inflation -- you'd have $699,733. That's roughly a fourth of what Mr. Ramsey leads his devotees to expect.The danger, advisers say, is that unsophisticated investors will be lulled into thinking that they will have much more in retirement savings than they actually will. To make things worse, Mr. Ramsey also says retirees can withdraw as much as 8 percent of their nest egg each year for living expenses. Most advisers recommend no more than 4 to 4.5 percent, to avoid depleting their retirement funds too soon.
So why does Mr. Ramsey use such high figures? He did not make himself available to explain. "Dave is currently working on the completion of his new book and unfortunately is not able to add anything to his schedule, at this time," a Lampo Group public relations assistant said in an e-mail. "He would like to apologize and thank you for requesting an interview."
While Mr. Ramsey doesn't have time to explain his investment philosophy, his staff has made time to talk to advisers who publicly disagree with his statements.
Rick Kahler, a financial planner in Rapid City, S.D., wrote a column in 2007 called "Dave Ramsey, How Could You?" and posted a video version on YouTube, taking issue with Mr. Ramsey's investment advice. (Mr. Kahler had heard Mr. Ramsey dismissing REIT funds on his radio show, in favor of growth mutual funds.)
Subsequently, a notice from Lampo Group was posted to YouTube, ordering Mr. Kahler to "cease and desist" using Mr. Ramsey's name in the title of the video and in its "tags," which are identifiers that allow Internet postings to show up in online searches.
Here's the text of the message, which Mr. Kahler provided in an e-mail (it also links to the video):"Dave Ramsey's name and image, along with other properties of The Lampo Group, Inc. are legally trademarked. Any opportunistic use (including for-fee and nonprofit services/products) of these items without written consent of The Lampo Group, Inc. is strictly prohibited.
In order to protect the Dave Ramsey brand, The Lampo Group, Inc., customers, clients, and other third parties who are in agreement with Dave Ramsey, legal action will be pursued for trademark violations and copyright infringements with anyone who knowingly violates these rules.
We have found violations in your use of "Dave Ramsey" either in the title, keywords, or tags for the YouTube videosbelow.
Action Required: Cease and Desist using Dave Ramsey or related terms in the title, keywords, or tags of the video above and any other existing and future videos.
We expect compliance with the requested actions by 3/17/2008. Please also notify us when you have been able to comply with the things outlined in this email."Mr. Kahler said the issue eventually fizzled after he contacted Mr. Ramsey's office. His Web site says he is a fan of Mr. Ramsey's debt-free living advice, although he continues to be publicly critical of his investment opinions.
Have you considered Mr. Ramsey's investment advice? Are you confident in his understanding of how returns are measured?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (77%); BONDS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INDEX FUNDS (74%); MUTUAL FUNDS (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); BESTSELLERS (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%) Ramsey, Dave; Retirement; Stocks and Bonds; YouTube.com

ORGANIZATION: YouTube.com

PERSON: Ramsey, Dave

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



420 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: The Population Shifts Westward; 
Economix

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: An interactive map from the Census Bureau showing how political and economic forces have moved the center of the United States population from Kent County, Md. in 1790 to Plato, Mo., in 2010.

 BODY:
The Census Bureau has put together a neat interactive map showing the shifting center of the population, defined as "the place where an imaginary, flat, weightless and rigid map of the United States would balance perfectly if all residents were of identical weight."
Over the years the center of the population has shifted westward and then southward, reflecting political and economic forces that encouraged the population to migrate: the settling of the Western frontier; immigration patterns; and then the gravitation away from older, colder cities to the Southwest, where looser regulations made it easier to build more housing.
In 1790, the center of the population was in Kent County, Md. By last year, it had moved 872.9 miles away, to Plato, Mo.

        
Behind the Population Shift
        
The Richest Counties in America
        
Underwater Homes, Then vs. Now
        
The Poorest States of America
        
United States of Wage Gaps

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CENSUS (95%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (88%); IMMIGRATION (54%) Census Bureau; housing; map; Population; Census; United States

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (94%) Census Bureau

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



421 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: Inflation, in Perspective; 
Economix

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: It was up again last month, roughly in line with economists' expectations.

 BODY:
Inflation rose again last month, roughly in line with economists' expectations, to 3.1 percent over the last year. Core inflation -- a measure that removes volatile and food and energy prices -- also rose, with airfares, car prices and toy prices up. Core inflation is not a particularly good measure of how prices are affecting people's lives, because food and energy prices obviously matter, but it does tend to be a better guide to where overall inflation is headed. 
 Unemployment, of course, remains far above its historical average, and it is not falling very fast. (Technically, it rose last month.) For anyone trying to decide whether unemployment or inflation is a bigger problem right now, these big-picture comparisons are worth keeping in mind.

        
The Fed's Language Problem on Inflation
        
Core Inflation Rises, but Is Still Low
        
Inflation? Not in Wages
        
Greenspan and Unemployment
        
Is More Bond-Buying the Answer?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FOOD PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); TRENDS (88%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); AIR FARES (56%) core inflation; Federal Reserve; inflation; Unemployment; Economic Conditions and Trends; Inflation (Economics); United States Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



422 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: In Africa, Climate Resilience Through Insurance; 
Dot Earth

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A look at a program offering African farmers crop insurance in return for work on projects to boost resilience to extremes.

 BODY:
Tina Rosenberg has an interesting piece on a form of micro-insurance for Ethiopian farmers in Fixes, a category of the Opinionator blog examining creative solutions to social problems.
Essentially, the program does for one of the world's toughest farming regions what crop insurance has long done for farmers in the parts of the Midwest who are seeing their fields inundated this spring but -- like Michael Beam of Kentucky on NPR yesterday -- say they're doing O.K. (In his case, Beam said, corn prices are high enough that he won't even need the insurance.)
Rosenberg's piece explains that the program, being run by Oxfam America in Ethiopia, offers farmers insurance in return for work that helps build their capacity to withstand too little rain.
Here's the nut: David Satterthwaite, Oxfam America's senior global microinsurance officer, said that Oxfam staff spent months talking to farmers in Tigray about insurance, explaining what it was. "The suggestion was made by a farmer: 'This is something I would be quite interested in if I could pay for it with my labor, the same way I can pay for food in the safety net.' "
Not many insurance companies, of course, deal in barter. A third party was needed to turn people's labor into money. Oxfam decided to be that party. It began a program called Harita (Horn of Africa Risk Transfer for Adaptation) in Tigray that included insurance as part of a larger climate change-adjustment program, which includes access to credit, help with savings and programs to increase crop yields. The groups working on it include the W.F.P. [World Food Program], the Rockefeller Foundation, local insurers and global re-insurers, local microbanks that lend to farmers and some of Tigray's highly respected community organizations; Oxfam is the equivalent of a general contractor.
The program uses the W.F.P. work-for-food safety net, but adds insurance to the mix. Farmers can buy microinsurance with work on forestry, soil management and irrigation projects after their harvest is over. In return for that work they get insurance that will pay when the rain fails; Oxfam, with financial help from its partners, is currently picking up the bill. (In the United States, crop insurance for farmers is highly subsidized by the government.)It's all totally sensible. My only problem with the program is that it's pitched by Oxfam around the need for adaptation to human-driven climate change, instead of the utterly clear and longstanding reality that this region of Africa has long been, and remains, hugely vulnerable to existing patterns of climate extremes and is going to see roughly doubled risk simply through population growth in coming decades.
Greenhouse heating adds another element of risk, for sure. But this program would, and does, make sense with or without that element.
Any contribution to food problems in this part of Africa from human-driven warming remains impossible to gauge because of parallel drivers of risk and a truly awesome history of natural extremes in climate -- dry and wet.
What sub-Saharan Africa desperately needs is not adaptation to climate change. That implies far too much knowability about current and projected changes in such regions. It needs resilience to climate extremes, whatever the mix of causes, fostered with every possible tool, from economic development and education for girls to family planning to urban opportunity to fertilizer to insurance.

        
Killer Tornadoes, Horrible and Still Unknowable
        
Even the Camels Are Dying
        
A Diaspora From African Drylands
        
Fertilizer Divide: Too Much, Not Enough
        
The Uncertain Legacy of Chico Mendes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (91%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CROP INSURANCE (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); MICROFINANCE (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (86%); REINSURANCE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); CROP PRODUCTION (78%); DROUGHT (78%); FAMINE (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); AGRICULTURAL LENDING (73%); WEATHER (73%); PRODUCT SAFETY (71%); FOOD SAFETY (71%); POPULATION GROWTH (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); IRRIGATION (50%) Africa; Agriculture; Climate Change; extreme weather; Famine; farming; Insurance; risk; Rosenberg, Tina; Drought; Farmers; Global Warming; Humanitarian Aid; Population; Oxfam; Rockefeller Foundation; World Food Program; Ethiopia; Midwestern States (US); disasters; environmental policy; Food; Poverty; resilience

ORGANIZATION: OXFAM AMERICA (92%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (84%) Oxfam; Rockefeller Foundation; World Food Program

PERSON: Rosenberg, Tina

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (94%) AFRICA (95%); ETHIOPIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%) Africa; Ethiopia; Midwestern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



423 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Would Privatizing Medicare Lead to Better Cost Controls?; 
Economix

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Believing the private insurance industry could better control health care costs is faith-based analysis unsupported by data, an economist writes.

 BODY:
Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton. He has some financial interests in the health care field.
The annual Milliman Medical Index, released earlier this week by Milliman Inc., the Seattle-based employee-benefit consulting and actuarial company, is illuminating, and I highly recommend it. The index is particularly timely as the nation considers proposals to reduce sharply the role of the federal government in financing health care, along the lines proposed by Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin and chairman of the House Budget Committee. 
The index measures the total cost of health care for a typical American family of four covered by a preferred provider plan, widely known as a P.P.O. The index's great virtue is that it includes not only the employer's and employee's contributions to the premium for P.P.O. coverage but also the out-of-pocket expenses the family has under the plan. 
Employers can control the growth of health insurance premiums by shifting more and more of the cost from the insurance policy to the family's budget, through higher deductibles and coinsurance or by excluding benefits from coverage that had previously been covered. 
Thus, the index provides a more accurate picture of the actual burden of health spending for a typical American family than does just the premium for P.P.O. coverage. 
The estimated average cost of health spending from all sources for a typical privately insured American family more than doubled in the last decade, to $19,393 in 2011 from $8,414 in 2001. Over the decade, the index exhibited an average compound annual growth rate -- widely known in the trade as C.A.G.R. -- of 8.8 percent, although, in recent years, that rate has ranged between 7 and 8 percent. 
Despite that recent abatement, the growth rate is still more than twice the rate at which total average employee compensation has grown, for all but the top executives among private employers. In recent years, the growth in employee compensation has hovered beneath 3 percent. 
In other words, health care is chewing up employees' paychecks like Pac-Man in the famous arcade game. And there is considerable empirical evidence that the employer's ostensible contribution to the employee's health-insurance premiums actually comes out of the employee's take-home pay.
As noted above, it is not a stretch to argue that the Milliman Medical Index bears directly on the hypothesis that private health insurers are able to control the growth in per-capita health spending better than Medicare can.
At the theoretical level, one might be persuaded to subscribe to that theory, because private nonprofit and commercial health-insurance plans have at their disposal cost-control mechanisms that traditional Medicare has been denied by statute -- for example, selective contracting with preferred providers that offer the insurer lower prices, or various direct interventions to control the volume of health services. 
In addition, private nonprofit or commercial health insurers can offer other advantages that traditional Medicare has not, like disease management, wellness programs and better coordinated care -- advantages that, in principle, are empirically demonstrable if they exist. 
But the Milliman data do not suggest that superior control over total health spending -- as opposed to controlling premium growth through cost-shifting to private household budgets -- is among the industry's strengths. To argue that the industry can do so is, at this point, faith-based analysis.
Indeed, a December 2010 report by the American Health Insurance Plans, or A.H.I.P., the industry's trade association, itself cast doubt on that score. The table below, taken from that report, illustrates the price trends faced by the insurance industry.
The association provides the average transaction prices that the nine largest private health insurers paid hospitals in Oregon from 2005 to 2009 for a number of well-defined episodic services; the price data are made available from the Office for Oregon Health Policy and Research.
It can be seen in the table that the average annual compound increases in the average prices for these services are generally north of 10 percent. 
The average price paid hospitals for a normal vaginal delivery, for example, rose to about $6,400 in 2009, from $3,800 in 2005, an average compound annual growth rate of 14 percent. The average price of a knee replacement rose to $28,700 from $19,000, or about 10 percent a year. Unlike Oregon, California does not seem to make available to the public detailed hospital transactions prices with private insurers. The A.H.I.P. instead reports cumulative increases in average net inpatient revenue per inpatient day over the period 2000-9.
Inpatient revenue per day for Medi-Cal, California's Medicaid program, rose by 18 percent over the decade. The corresponding statistic for Medicare was 76 percent. For private insurers it was 159 percent.
It is widely assumed, among both health insurers and the hospital industry, that the more rapidly rising prices paid by private insurers reflect a cost shift from government to the private sector. The theory is that private insurers must compensate with higher prices for the shortfall from actual cost imposed on providers of care by unduly low Medicaid and Medicare payment rates.
As the A.H.I.P. report notes on this point:
Some hospital systems and their affiliated physician groups have attained dominant market shares in their regions, and they have used their market power to drive up hospital prices for private plans. For example, the dominant hospital system in northern California costs private health insurance plans 44 percent more (inpatient reimbursement per discharge) than the state average for private plans in 2009. However, this "cost-shift" to private payers may not be sustainable.
With a few exceptions, economists remain skeptical on the validity of the cost-shift theory, although it may operate in some market environments. 
But suppose one accepted the cost-shift theory at face value. It implies that in many markets with highly consolidated hospital systems and large physicians' groups, private insurers simply lack the market power to resist price increases from the more powerful providers of health care for whatever reason -- cost shift or otherwise. 
The available data do not lend credence to the prediction sometimes made in connection with the Ryan plan for Medicare that private insurers will be able to control the overall health spending of elderly Americans any better than traditional Medicare has been able to. 
A complete privatization of Medicare will have to be rationalized on other grounds -- either with appeal to superior coordination of care or simply on the argument that government must by statute shrink the taxpayers' obligation for the health-care cost of the elderly by shifting those costs to the elderly themselves.

        
In Health Care Overhaul, Language Matters
        
Health Reform Without a Public Plan: The German Model
        
Pricing a Medicare-Like Public Health Plan
        
A Medicare-Like Plan for the Non-Elderly
        
A More Rational Approach to Hospital Pricing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (92%); INSURANCE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); MEDICARE (90%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); RELIGION (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (65%); EXECUTIVES (61%) Daily Economist; health care; health insurance; Medicare; Paul Ryan; privatization; U.S. health care costs; Uwe E. Reinhardt; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: MILLIMAN INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (91%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



424 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Accused; 
The Caucus

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times, plus a look at what's happening in Washington.

 BODY:
In Today's Times:
The Senate Ethics Committee came down hard on former Senator John Ensign of Nevada, who resigned last week under the shadow of an investigation. Eric Lipton and Eric Lichtblau write that the committee has urged the Justice Department to consider charges against Mr. Ensign because it found evidence that he violated federal campaign laws and Senate rules.
President Obama seems to think the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation is a keeper. Jackie Calmes and Charlie Savage explain why Mr. Obama wants Robert S. Mueller III on his national security team for two more years - and why Republicans might like the idea too.
The presidentand his legal advisers are looking for a way to remain involved in the NATO bombing campaign in Libya beyond May 20. That is the deadline for the United States to end combat operations because the mission has not been approved by Congress. Charlie Savage and Thom Shanker write that although lawmakers have shown little inclination to enforce the deadline, the administration is considering options to justify the United States' continued involvement. Mr. Obama will meet this morning with the NATO secretary general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen.
By midsummer, fully half of the nation's top financial regulatory posts will be vacant. Binyamin Appelbaum looks at how empty seats and interim appointments have created legal and political roadblocks to writing new rules and making decisions about banking regulations and bank failures.
Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the chamber's Republican leader, said Thursday that a divided government might have the best chance to make major changes in entitlement programs. Jennifer Steinhauer reports that Mr. McConnell has also sketched out some ideas on what it will take to persuade him and other Republicans to raise the federal debt ceiling.
Mitt Romney, who is exploring a bid for the White House, offered no apologies in a speech Thursday for the universal health care law that he ushered in as governor of Massachusetts. Jim Rutenberg writes that the law that Mr. Romney signed endangers his shot at the presidency because it does not sit well with Republicans (Democrats have said the new federal health care law was modeled on the Massachusetts plan). In his speech, Mr. Romney said his plan, albeit flawed, was a state solution to a state problem, and he added that he would repeal the federal law.
Happening in Washington:
Administration officials including President Obama's national security adviser, Thomas E. Donilon,and lawmakers will meet throughout the day with political leaders of the Libyan opposition movement at the White House and on Capitol Hill.
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner will hold a press briefing at 12:30 p.m. on the Social Security and Medicare Trustees Reports. He will be joined by Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, and Labor Secretary Hilda Solis.
Economic data scheduled for release today include a report on real wages and the consumer price index for April from the Department of Labor.

        
The Early Word: The Next Step
        
The Early Word: Spotlight
        
The Weekend Word: Aftermath
        
The Early Word: Backtracking
        
The Early Word: No Bin Laden Photos, but Thousands of Words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ETHICS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); BANKING LAW (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ELECTION LAW (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); DEBT CEILING (73%); APPROVALS (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); MEDICARE (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); BOMBINGS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); GOVERNORS (53%) The Early Word; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN ENSIGN (88%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); HILDA L SOLIS (58%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (56%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%); ANDERS FOGH RASMUSSEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



425 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: SkyBridge Comes Out a Winner in Las Vegas

BYLINE: AZAM AHMED


HIGHLIGHT: With its fortunes rising, SkyBridge Capital attracted about 1,750 people to its Salt Conference, where speakers included some of the leading hedge fund managers in the business.

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS -- Three years ago, the SkyBridge Alternative Conference in Las Vegas was something of a backwater affair.
Just 400 people showed up at the first conference, which featured few speakers that anyone outside of the hedge fund industry would recognize. 
Flash forward to 2011, and the Salt Conference, as it is also known, featured such speakers as former President George W. Bush, David Axelrod, an adviser to President Obama, and a roster of the leading hedge fund managers in the business. 
The conference, at the sumptuous Bellagio resort, was overbooked, with about 1,750 people in attendance. After expensive dinners at the city's finest restaurants, attendees fanned out across the Las Vegas Strip to partake in late-night partying in something akin to a hedge fund spring break.
What exactly accounts for the vast turnaround and quick rise of the conference? Well, playing no small role in its popularity is Anthony Scaramucci, the talkative and relentlessly self-promoting founder of SkyBridge Capital, which is based in New York. The rise of the conference in some ways coincides with the rise of Mr. Scaramucci as a media figure.
Around the time of its first conference, SkyBridge appeared to be on death's doorstep. Their hedge fund seeding business was bleeding money as the financial crisis intensified, so Mr. Scaramucci decided he would go on a marketing offensive.
"I started doing TV and it was a 'dead or alive' strategy," he said. "I wanted people to know we were still alive." 
The crucial reversal of fortune came last year with SkyBridge's acquisition of some of Citigroup's hedge fund of funds assets. Prior to the purchase, Mr. Scaramucci's business had dwindled to $450 million. Afterward, the fund swelled to $5.9 billion and today it has roughly $8 billion under management.
These days, Mr. Scaramucci, sometimes referred to as "the mooch," makes regular rotations on the business news channels, his hair always perfectly coiffed, his suits somewhat boxy and baggy, his demeanor the essence of Italian alpha confidence. 
He has published a book, "Goodbye Gordon Gecko," a memoir of sorts that offers the type of advice that, if delivered without such earnestness, might make one cringe. 
He also caught the attention of many last year when he famously asked President Obama why he was using Wall Street as a "pinata." His office is adorned with pinatas that people including Jon Stewart of "The Daily Show" sent him afterward.
The contents of the Salt Conference gift bag alone say something. It contained a saltshaker, emblazoned with the word "SALT," in case anyone missed the reference. Attendees were also given a Swiss Army toiletries bag with "SALT" stitched into its cover. 
Organizers dropped into each goodie bag a video of the movie "Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps." Mr. Scaramucci was a consultant on the 2010 film and appeared in it briefly.
Standing outside of Haze nightclub for the "red carpet" event on the final evening of the conference on Thursday, Mr. Scaramucci glad-handed hedge fund managers, investors and others tangentially connected to the industry as they headed for the open bar. A photographer lingered nearby to capture every smile.
The club itself was so packed that waitresses struggled to deliver drinks to the crowd, who ignored the dance floor in favor of the booze. Conference-goers raved about their experience, which seemed as much about the panels as the environs of Las Vegas. 
Indeed, Las Vegas did seem a fitting locale for Mr. Scaramucci's event, with its flair for promotion and bombast, as he roamed the green room with his panelists and snacked on finger foods. 
How Mr. Scaramucci selected the chef is telling. After seeing the widely circulated pinata comment, the chef sent Mr. Scaramucci a video of himself promoting his services. Appreciating his enterprising effort, Mr. Scaramucci contracted the chef to provide food in the green room.

        
Debts, Deficits and Defaults in Sin City
        
Gloom and Doom, and How to Profit From It

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (77%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (74%); FUNDS OF FUNDS (72%); RESTAURANTS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%) Anthony Scaramucci; Salt Conference; Skybridge Alternative Conference; SkyBridge Alternatives Conference; SkyBridge Capital; Scaramucci, Anthony; Hedge Funds; Financial Services

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%)

PERSON: JON STEWART (70%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); DAVID AXELROD (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%) Scaramucci, Anthony

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%) NEVADA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



426 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: Would Privatizing Medicare Lead to Better Cost Controls?

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Believing the private insurance industry could better control health care costs is faith-based analysis unsupported by data, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton. He has some financial interests in the health care field. 
The annual Milliman Medical Index, released earlier this week by Milliman Inc., the Seattle-based employee-benefit consulting and actuarial company, is illuminating, and I highly recommend it. The index is particularly timely as the nation considers proposals to reduce sharply the role of the federal government in financing health care, along the lines proposed by Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin and chairman of the House Budget Committee. 
The index measures the total cost of health care for a typical American family of four covered by a preferred provider plan, widely known as a P.P.O. The index's great virtue is that it includes not only the employer's and employee's contributions to the premium for P.P.O. coverage but also the out-of-pocket expenses the family has under the plan. 
Employers can control the growth of health insurance premiums by shifting more and more of the cost from the insurance policy to the family's budget, through higher deductibles and coinsurance or by excluding benefits from coverage that had previously been covered. 
Thus, the index provides a more accurate picture of the actual burden of health spending for a typical American family than does just the premium for P.P.O. coverage. 

The estimated average cost of health spending from all sources for a typical privately insured American family more than doubled in the last decade, to $19,393 in 2011 from $8,414 in 2001. Over the decade, the index exhibited an average compound annual growth rate - widely known in the trade as C.A.G.R. - of 8.8 percent, although, in recent years, that rate has ranged between 7 and 8 percent. 
Despite that recent abatement, the growth rate is still more than twice the rate at which total average employee compensation has grown, for all but the top executives among private employers. In recent years, the growth in employee compensation has hovered beneath 3 percent. 
In other words, health care is chewing up employees' paychecks like Pac-Man in the famous arcade game. And there is considerable empirical evidence that the employer's ostensible contribution to the employee's health-insurance premiums actually comes out of the employee's take-home pay.
As noted above, it is not a stretch to argue that the Milliman Medical Index bears directly on the hypothesis that private health insurers are able to control the growth in per-capita health spending better than Medicare can.
At the theoretical level, one might be persuaded to subscribe to that theory, because private nonprofit and commercial health-insurance plans have at their disposal cost-control mechanisms that traditional Medicare has been denied by statute - for example, selective contracting with preferred providers that offer the insurer lower prices, or various direct interventions to control the volume of health services. 
In addition, private nonprofit or commercial health insurers can offer other advantages that traditional Medicare has not, like disease management, wellness programs and better coordinated care - advantages that, in principle, are empirically demonstrable if they exist. 
But the Milliman data do not suggest that superior control over total health spending - as opposed to controlling premium growth through cost-shifting to private household budgets - is among the industry's strengths. To argue that the industry can do so is, at this point, faith-based analysis.
Indeed, a December 2010 report by the American Health Insurance Plans, or A.H.I.P., the industry's trade association, itself cast doubt on that score. The table below, taken from that report, illustrates the price trends faced by the insurance industry.
The association provides the average transaction prices that the nine largest private health insurers paid hospitals in Oregon from 2005 to 2009 for a number of well-defined episodic services; the price data are made available from the Office for Oregon Health Policy and Research.
It can be seen in the table that the average annual compound increases in the average prices for these services are generally north of 10 percent. 
The average price paid hospitals for a normal vaginal delivery, for example, rose to about $6,400 in 2009, from $3,800 in 2005, an average compound annual growth rate of 14 percent. The average price of a knee replacement rose to $28,700 from $19,000, or about 10 percent a year. 
Unlike Oregon, California does not seem to make available to the public detailed hospital transactions prices with private insurers. The A.H.I.P. instead reports cumulative increases in average net inpatient revenue per inpatient day over the period 2000-9.
Inpatient revenue per day for Medi-Cal, California's Medicaid program, rose by 18 percent over the decade. The corresponding statistic for Medicare was 76 percent. For private insurers it was 159 percent.
It is widely assumed, among both health insurers and the hospital industry, that the more rapidly rising prices paid by private insurers reflect a cost shift from government to the private sector. The theory is that private insurers must compensate with higher prices for the shortfall from actual cost imposed on providers of care by unduly low Medicaid and Medicare payment rates.
As the A.H.I.P. report notes on this point:
Some hospital systems and their affiliated physician groups have attained dominant market shares in their regions, and they have used their market power to drive up hospital prices for private plans. For example, the dominant hospital system in northern California costs private health insurance plans 44 percent more (inpatient reimbursement per discharge) than the state average for private plans in 2009. However, this "cost-shift" to private payers may not be sustainable.
With a few exceptions, economists remain skeptical on the validity of the cost-shift theory, although it may operate in some market environments. 
But suppose one accepted the cost-shift theory at face value. It implies that in many markets with highly consolidated hospital systems and large physicians' groups, private insurers simply lack the market power to resist price increases from the more powerful providers of health care for whatever reason - cost shift or otherwise. 
The available data do not lend credence to the prediction sometimes made in connection with the Ryan plan for Medicare that private insurers will be able to control the overall health spending of elderly Americans any better than traditional Medicare has been able to. 
A complete privatization of Medicare will have to be rationalized on other grounds - either with appeal to superior coordination of care or simply on the argument that government must by statute shrink the taxpayers' obligation for the health-care cost of the elderly by shifting those costs to the elderly themselves. 

        
Reader Response: Medicare Options and Quality of Care
        
The Complexities of Comparing Medicare Choices
        
Medicare Spending Isn't Out of Control
        
What Hospitals Charge the Uninsured
        
Shocked, Shocked, Over Hospital Bills

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (92%); INSURANCE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); FAMILY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (77%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); RELIGION (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (65%); EXECUTIVES (61%) Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicare; Medicine and Health; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Economix

COMPANY: MILLIMAN INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (91%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2013



427 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Wealthy Donors to G.O.P. Are Providing Bulk of Money in Gay Marriage Push

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE and MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
As gay rights advocates intensify their campaign to legalize same-sex marriage in New York, the bulk of their money is coming from an unexpected source: a group of conservative financiers and wealthy donors to the Republican Party, most of whom are known for bankrolling right-leaning candidates and causes.
Their behind-the-scenes financial support -- about $1 million in donations, delivered in recent weeks to a new coalition of gay rights organizations -- could alter the political calculus of Albany lawmakers, especially the Republican state senators in whose hands the fate of gay marriage rests.
The donors represent some of New York's wealthiest and most politically active figures and include Paul E. Singer, a hedge fund manager and top-tier Republican donor, as well as two other financiers, Steven A. Cohen and Clifford S. Asness. 
At the same time, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, a billionaire businessman and philanthropist who has been a major contributor to Senate Republicans in New York, plans a significant push for same-sex marriage: giving at least $100,000 of his own money, hosting a fund-raiser at an Upper East Side town house, traveling to Albany to lobby lawmakers and giving a speech on the issue.
The new donations represent roughly two-thirds of the same-sex marriage coalition's fund-raising, making New York the rare state where a lobbying campaign in favor of legalizing gay unions is not being financed primarily by liberal donors and Democrats. The support is likely to jolt the traditional financial and political backers of gay rights causes, who now find themselves in the unfamiliar position of being outraised and outspent in New York.
The donations are financing an intensive campaign of television advertisements and grass-roots activism coordinated by New Yorkers United for Marriage, a group of same-sex marriage advocates. The campaign is aimed chiefly at persuading several members of the Senate Republican majority to join most Senate Democrats in backing same-sex marriage, which was defeated in the Senate in 2009. The State Assembly, controlled by Democrats, has repeatedly passed same-sex marriage bills.
The newly recruited donors argue that permitting same-sex marriage is consistent with conservative principles of personal liberty and small government.
''I'm a pretty straight-down-the-line small-government guy,'' said Mr. Asness, who described himself as a libertarian who favored less government intrusion in both markets and personal affairs. Mr. Asness, a frequent Republican donor, has praised Tea Party activists on his blog and last year attended a conference of right-leaning donors held by Charles and David Koch, among the leading conservative philanthropists in the nation.
''This is an issue of basic freedom,'' Mr. Asness said.
Some of those involved have made what might be termed the pro-business argument for same-sex marriage, arguing that the legalization of same-sex marriage would help keep New York economically competitive.
One of the donors, Daniel S. Loeb, who has donated hundreds of thousands of dollars to Republican candidates for federal office in the last two years, said he hoped to make clear to Republicans that same-sex marriage had a broad coalition of support.
''I think it is important in particular for Republicans to know this is a bipartisan issue,'' Mr. Loeb said. ''If they're Republican, they will not be abandoned by the party for supporting this. On the contrary, I think they will find that there is a whole new world of people who will support them on an ongoing basis if they support this cause.''
Mr. Cohen, who runs SAC Capital Advisers and has become increasingly active in Republican fund-raising, described his views simply: ''We believe in social justice for all Americans.''
The involvement of Mr. Singer is the most striking, given his devotion to conservative candidates and philanthropy: He is chairman of the Manhattan Institute, a right-leaning research group, and one of the most generous Republican donors in the country. But he also has a personal stake in the issue: he has a gay son who married his partner in Massachusetts, where same-sex marriage is legal.
Mr. Singer is coordinating much of the Republican fund-raising for same-sex marriage in New York, according to people familiar with the matter, donating $425,000 of his own money and personally soliciting an additional $500,000 in donations. At the same time, he has hosted private meetings to make the case for legalizing gay weddings in New York to other conservatives.
Bill Smith, deputy executive director of the Gill Action Fund, a foundation that supports gay rights, called the contributions from Republican donors ''a sea change.''
Some of the donors were recruited by Ken Mehlman, a contributor to the coalition and a former chairman of the Republican National Committee, who has since announced that he is gay. Some of the new contributors have been active in national politics and presidential fund-raising, but are venturing into state politics for the first time. Their involvement offers Republicans in New York the prospect of help in next year's legislative elections and a potential source of longer-term support for a party that has struggled to field well-financed candidates for statewide office in recent years.
Mr. Bloomberg, a Republican-turned-independent, is the most politically centrist of the donors. (He is not coordinating his efforts with the other contributors.)
The mayor has long supported same-sex marriage and spoke passionately about the subject in 2009, when the Legislature last tackled the topic. But his donations to state Republicans have occasionally stirred skepticism among gay rights advocates. And until now, the mayor has given little of his personal fortune to the cause -- he made a $5,000 donation to the Human Rights Campaign, a national gay rights group, in 2010.
This year, his involvement has deepened considerably. Aides to Mr. Bloomberg said he viewed the marriage issue in a larger context: Freedom, he argues, is New York's ''competitive advantage'' and its brand, and he has become committed to vigorously defending it, as he did amid criticism of a proposed Islamic center near ground zero.
''At the core this very rational mayor is somebody who believes that government has no business in getting involved in, taking sides in or making value judgments about who you love,'' said John Feinblatt, the mayor's chief policy adviser.
On Tuesday, Mr. Bloomberg is scheduled to travel to Albany to lobby Republican lawmakers, and on May 25, he plans to hold a high-dollar fund-raiser, featuring the singer Rufus Wainwright, to raise money for the same-sex marriage cause at the Upper East Side headquarters of his foundation. The next day, Mr. Bloomberg plans to deliver a speech on the subject at the Cooper Union.
''This is the moment,'' Mr. Feinblatt said of the mayor's involvement. ''If you want your beliefs to count and your voice to count, this is the time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Paul Singer, left, and Daniel Loeb are among the donors. (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (95%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (94%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (92%); MARRIAGE (92%); LGBT RIGHTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LOBBYING (89%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); MAYORS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); POLITICS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); STEVEN A COHEN (54%); STEVEN COHEN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011



428 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: H.I.V. S O S

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
Treatment as prevention.
That's the way scientists describe a striking and incredibly encouraging new finding of a large clinical trial released on Thursday that found that H.I.V.-infected people who took antiretroviral drugs were 96 percent less likely to pass on the disease than those who didn't. 
This is an extraordinary finding, coming in the year of the 30th anniversary of the AIDS epidemic in America.
This now shines a harsh light on the cruelty-creep and passion-drift by federal and state governments whose lack of financing and fealty in the fight against AIDS has had the effect of either starving or restricting support, services and prevention efforts for people with H.I.V. and those at risk of contracting it.
In light of this week's news, perhaps no program becomes more important or in more urgent need of reconsideration than the nation's AIDS Drug Assistance Programs, or ADAPs, for low-income patients. ADAPs are co-funded by federal and state governments and now find themselves in a bit of a crisis.
On the federal level, Washington's contributions haven't kept pace with the scope of the problem. In 2000, 68 percent of ADAP budgets came from federal money. Last year, that had dropped to 45 percent. And the state-level lawmakers are making unconscionable choices.
According to data from the ADAP Advocacy Association: as of last week, the number of people on ADAP waiting lists had risen to 7,873; between April 2009 and April 2011, 14 states reduced the number and types of drugs they would pay for. A number of states have stiffened financial eligibility requirements, capped enrollment or removed some people already enrolled. Other states are considering doing so.
This is particularly problematic since the National ADAP Monitoring Project's annual report, released in March, showed that those most dependent on the program are some of society's most vulnerable. About a third of all people diagnosed with AIDS are enrolled in ADAPs, three-quarters of them had incomes of less than 200 percent of the national poverty level, 61 percent were uninsured, and 55 percent were black or Hispanic.
But as the recession put more patients in need, federal and state aid didn't keep track. From 2007 to 2010, the number of people using ADAPs jumped by a third, but federal and state funds specifically appropriated for it grew by just 3 percent and 18 percent, respectively.
Not only is it morally reprehensible to restrict or deny life-saving drugs to those who need them (talk about death panels), it is a colossal miscalculation of public health policy, not to mention fiscally irresponsible.
The new findings should help change a paradigm that's badly in need of changing. Treatment benefits the healthy as well as the sick. It not only prolongs and improves the lives of those who are H.I.V.-positive, but also is a prophylactic for those who aren't. Everyone wins.
It's time to expand ADAPs, not diminish them.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Not Keeping Track: The increase in the number of patients receiving assistance from AIDS Drug Assistance Programs since the recession has outpaced federal and state contributions to the programs. (Source: National ADAP Monitoring Project Annual Report, March 2011, National Alliance of State and Territorial AIDS Directors) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (79%); ANTIVIRALS (79%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); EPIDEMICS (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011



429 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Debit Fees For Benefits

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

 BODY:
When you're getting unemployment benefits, you by definition don't have a lot of cash to spare. So it seems especially unfair that people who receive their jobless benefits on prepaid debit cards are subject to a variety of fees they can ill afford to pay.
A report out this week from the National Consumer Law Center lays out a host of ways in which banks nibble away at jobless benefits with fees the center called ''junk.'' The prepaid cards are most often used by jobless recipients who don't have checking accounts, and so are ineligible for direct deposit. Practices vary from state to state because jobless benefits are distributed at the state level, and state governments negotiate the terms of agreements with card providers. In many states, charges apply for using A.T.M.'s, even if they're in network; checking balances; and even for not using the card enough (inactivity fees, as high as $3). 
The report is especially critical of a card issued in five states by U.S. Bank, which charges overdraft fees of $10 to $20 if recipients use more than the amount on their cards. Charging an overdraft fee to someone who doesn't even have a bank account struck me as particularly ingenious - what are they overdrawing, exactly?
U.S. Bank is able to do this, the report explains, because jobless benefits are typically paid into pooled accounts that then have subaccounts designated for individual recipients. In most states, if a recipient uses the card to make a purchase that exceeds his or her benefits, the transaction is simply denied. But in five states - Arkansas, Idaho, Nebraska, Ohio and Oregon - U.S. Bank lets the transaction go through, and then deducts the amount, plus the overdraft fee, from the recipient's next benefits check. (The bank issues cards without overdraft fees in several other states.) Those fees can make a big dent, considering that the typical weekly unemployment check is just $294.
Teri Charest, a spokeswoman for U.S. Bank, said in an e-mail that overdraft protection is an option that states can choose to add to their prepaid card programs. But even when it is offered, cardholders must opt in to overdraft coverage. ''The terms are clearly disclosed so cardholders are aware of the fee should they need to use it,'' she said.
Other banks don't charge such hefty fees, but some do charge ''denial'' fees, ranging from 25 cents to $1.50, when an attempted A.T.M. or retail transaction fails for lack of funds. Some even charge for live customer service calls or withdrawing funds using a human teller.
The practice occurs despite a directive from the Department of Labor stating that deducting ''overdraft, overdraft fee, or denial fee'' from future unemployment payments is ''inconsistent'' with federal law.
The ''best'' cards, offering free in-network A.T.M. withdrawals, at least two free out-of-network withdrawals, no balance inquiry fees and no inactivity fees, are offered in New York and New Jersey by Bank of America, the report found.
The worst for junk fees, in addition to the U.S. Bank version with overdraft fees, is the Tennessee card issued by JPMorgan Chase. It is one of only two states that fail to offer any free A.T.M. withdrawals.
The report recommends that smaller states band together for more clout when negotiating card terms with banks. And it urges the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to take up the cause of excessive fees on prepaid cards when it opens for business this summer. ''We hope prepaid cards are high on the agenda,'' said Lauren Saunders, managing attorney at the Consumer Law Center in Washington, and the primary author of the report.
Have you received jobless benefits on a prepaid card? What has your experience been?
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); PREPAID CARDS (90%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (71%); CONSUMER LAW (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONSUMER LAW CENTER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IDAHO, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011



430 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Unfounded Suspicions Wreak Havoc on Lives Of Two Muslim Soldiers

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

 BODY:
Two years ago, Khalid Lyaacoubi and Yassine Bahammou, immigrants from Morocco, enlisted in the Army National Guard, recruited for a program that promised higher rank, bonuses and quick citizenship to Arabic speakers who could help fill the military's need for interpreters.
Shortly before Christmas 2009, they graduated from boot camp, proud just to have made it. But as they prepared to leave Fort Jackson, S.C., they were instead questioned by military investigators who suspected them and three other Moroccan immigrants of plotting to poison fellow soldiers.
For the next 45 days, they were placed under a form of barracks arrest, prevented from calling their families without sergeants present, forbidden to speak Arabic to each other and required to have escorts to the mess hall and the bathroom. No charges were filed, but their laptops, cellphones and passports were confiscated.
Only after the intervention of a Muslim chaplain were they finally allowed to go back to their homes. Last May, the Army concluded that the allegations against them -- initially raised by a relative of a soldier -- were unfounded. But the Federal Bureau of Investigation has kept its inquiry open, officials say. As a result, the men have been unable to receive security clearances, become citizens, deploy to Iraq, obtain concealed weapons permits or get government jobs, the soldiers say. 
''Am I one of them, a soldier?'' Specialist Lyaacoubi, 34, asked in an interview. ''Or am I like one of those prisoners in Iraq?''
The handling of the two soldiers' cases underscores the conflicted nature of the military's relationship with its Muslim troops since the Fort Hood shootings in November 2009. A Muslim soldier, Maj. Nidal Malik Hasan, is accused of killing 13 people there.
Specialists Lyaacoubi and Bahammou were recruited into a program intended to put Arabic-, Dari- and Pashto-speaking immigrants in uniform to help frontline commanders operate in Afghanistan and Iraq. In a promotional video from 2008, an Army officer said the program -- known as 09 Lima, after the Army designation for interpreter jobs -- ''saves both American and local lives.''
Having Muslims in uniform also helped the military combat the view propagated by Al Qaeda -- but also held by many Muslims -- that the United States was at war with Islam. Perhaps for that reason, the Army chief of staff at the time, Gen. George W. Casey Jr., strongly defended the need for Muslim troops and warned about harassment of them after Major Hasan was arrested.
Despite the general's pleas, however, Specialists Lyaacoubi and Bahammou say they were swept into a tide of suspicion after the Fort Hood shootings, which occurred midway through their Fort Jackson training.
Treated with dignity during the first half of their training, they say other soldiers ransacked their bunk room and called them ''garbage'' soon after the shootings. When he was initially detained at Fort Jackson in 2009, Specialist Lyaacoubi said an interrogator told him: ''We are at war with Islam. And you are Muslim.''
Mikey Weinstein, president and founder of the Military Religious Freedom Foundation, a nonprofit group representing the two soldiers, said his group had seen a steady increase in Muslim clients who claimed they had been discriminated against since Fort Hood. He called the Army's Fort Jackson investigation ''draconian and clearly unconstitutional.''
In recent days, the Army has begun acknowledging problems with the way it handled the soldiers at Fort Jackson. An internal review that has not been made public found that they were treated in an ''overly restrictive'' way because they were not allowed to contact anyone for weeks. But the review did not find evidence of racism or harassment, Maj. Gen. Stephen R. Lanza, the Army's chief spokesman, said in a letter.
General Lanza defended the Army investigation, even though it came up empty. ''To not do so -- had these alleged threats turned out to be credible, and in light of the Fort Hood shooting incident that took place mere weeks before these allegations -- would have been an unconscionable dereliction of duty and leadership on our part,'' he wrote.
But the Army has been unable to explain why the F.B.I. continues to investigate the men. The F.B.I. declined to comment because the case is continuing.
Specialists Lyaacoubi and Bahammou say the F.B.I. got in touch with them after they started going public with their stories recently. Both say that an agent said their cases could be closed if they passed polygraph tests.
''I will take 10, 20 or 30, if it will help,'' said Specialist Lyaacoubi, who has taken the test.
Both men remain part of a National Guard unit in Washington, D.C. But they have not been allowed to train with their company since the investigation began.
In what they consider another sign of government harassment, both men say they have been searched repeatedly after routine traffic stops. Specialist Bahammou, 27, said he was handcuffed by the Washington police for more than 30 minutes while they searched his car recently. ''I never had a ticket before,'' he said.
The other three Moroccan immigrants investigated at Fort Jackson were also cleared by the Army, records show. One has returned to Morocco, Specialist Lyaacoubi said, while the other two have declined to speak publicly about the case.
Though graduates of the 09 Lima program are eligible for expedited citizenship, Specialists Lyaacoubi and Bahammou say that is not the reason they enlisted. Both won green cards in lotteries in Morocco, allowing them to live and work legally in the United States and which must be renewed after 10 years.
Specialist Lyaacoubi immigrated in 2004; Specialist Bahammou, who comes from Casablanca, arrived in 2007.
The men say they enlisted mainly for economic reasons. Specialist Lyaacoubi, from Rabat, the Moroccan capital, had been laid off from a hotel job when a recruiter told him about the 09 Lima program. He in turn persuaded Specialist Bahammou, who hoped military experience would help him get work in law enforcement.
Since returning to their homes in the Washington area last year, the men say they have had trouble finding permanent jobs. Specialist Bahammou said he had applied for work as a security guard but could not get a concealed-weapon permit because of the F.B.I. investigation. Specialist Lyaacoubi said a good job offer was recently rescinded when the employer, a government contractor, learned he was not a citizen. His naturalization, which he said had been approved, is halted for now because of the investigation.
Both men said they would deploy to Iraq if given the opportunity.
''I lived in my country for 27 years and I did great,'' Specialist Lyaacoubi said. ''But why should I leave America? I want to live here, I want to get married here. I want to die here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Specialists Khalid Lyaacoubi, left, and Yassine Bahammou of the Army National Guard were recruited to be interpreters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (92%); ARMED FORCES (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); CITIZENSHIP (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (88%); FORT HOOD SHOOTINGS (86%); MILITARY BASES (78%); MILITARY TRAINING (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); ARRESTS (76%); HOMICIDE (70%); LITIGATION (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); CONCEALED WEAPONS (69%); AL-QAEDA (68%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (91%) IRAQ (93%); MOROCCO (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011



431 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Budget Cuts Imperil Aid In Foreclosure Cases

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY; Thomas Kaplan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In the large immigrant community of Jamaica, Queens, which is ground zero of New York City's foreclosure crisis, a small squad of young lawyers fans out to local courts every day to do battle with lenders, negotiate hard-fought changes to onerous loans and provide free legal representation to low-income homeowners about to lose their homes.
Now, however, the anti-foreclosure team itself is facing foreclosure.
The state's budget squeeze has put at risk more than 120 legal aid and homeowner-counseling agencies across the state that have provided a last-ditch legal and economic lifeline to thousands of distressed homeowners. 
''I am not sure I will have enough money to pay my staff by the end of this year,'' said Jennifer Ching, the project director of Queens Legal Services, one of the groups whose future is threatened. ''New York could soon find itself with thousands of unrepresented homeowners who risk falling through the cracks.''
Foreclosure-prevention programs, which over the past three years have helped more than 3,000 homeowners facing foreclosure in New York City, have been financed since 2009 by federal stimulus spending, but that money will run out by the end of this year. That has left lawmakers scrambling to try to find new state financing, while the small army of pro bono lawyers fighting foreclosures waits and worries. Some have already stopped taking on new clients.
To bridge the three-month gap between the end of the calendar year and the start of New York's next fiscal year in April, Democrats in the State Assembly sought to add $4 million in foreclosure-related spending to the state budget that took effect April 1, but they were unsuccessful. If the program is halted, even briefly, its supporters fear that it will be very difficult to get permanent financing for it in the future.
As a stopgap effort to come up with new money, Assemblyman Vito J. Lopez, a Democrat from Brooklyn, who is chairman of the Housing Committee in the Assembly, inserted a $1.5 million earmark in the budget for the programs. But that failed, too: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, who banned new earmarks from the budget, vetoed the money.
''We were disappointed,'' said Mr. Lopez, whose borough has also been hit hard by foreclosures. ''That veto almost makes it impossible for us to have a support system available for people that have such a need.''
New York's foreclosure-prevention laws are among the most stringent in the country, requiring lenders to give a 90-day preforeclosure notice during which homeowners can seek help. But Ms. Ching said that the lack of new financing would undercut the law's effectiveness.
''It is incredibly disappointing that the governor, a former son of Queens and former housing secretary under President Clinton, can cut the last line of defense for people who are about to lose their homes,'' she said.
Cuomo administration officials say that pinning the blame on Mr. Cuomo is unfair, since the bulk of the financing for foreclosure prevention has come from the federal government, and the state reduced its spending this year for the first time in more than a decade, cutting areas like education and state operations.
But such arguments are cold comfort to distressed homeowners who are fighting to keep their homes and have turned to advocacy groups like Queens Legal Services as their last resort.
Luis Mendoza, a 64-year-old truck driver, was behind on the $477,000 mortgage on his Queens home two years ago when there was a knock on his door at 5 a.m. As his wife and four children looked on, he said, he was served with court papers warning him that he faced foreclosure on his handsome four-bedroom home in Woodhaven.
Unable to afford the interest rate on his adjustable-rate subprime mortgage when it rose to 7.8 percent, he turned to Queens Legal Services. The group represented him at his settlement hearing with Deutsche Bank, which holds the loan in a trust, and helped him apply for a loan modification under an Obama administration program intended to provide a safety net to homeowners. After nine months of fraught negotiations, the bank said that changes to Mr. Mendoza's loan had been approved for a trial period. But the paperwork never arrived. Then, the bank rescinded its offer, according to Mr. Mendoza's lawyer.
So Queens Legal Services brought a successful action against the bank in State Supreme Court in Queens arguing that it had not negotiated in good faith. In October, American Home Mortgage Servicing, the agent servicing the loan for Deutsche Bank, offered Mr. Mendoza a trial loan modification at an interest rate of 2 percent for five years. The court also ordered that five months' worth of interest be waived due to Deutsche Bank's previous delays, helping him save $13,000.
''I didn't know where I would go, with six people, if we got kicked out,'' said Mr. Mendoza, speaking through a translator provided by Queens Legal Services to help him navigate the process. ''It was my dream to buy a house for my kids.''
Scott Helfman, a Deustche Bank spokesman, said loan servicers, not the bank, were responsible for foreclosure-related legal proceedings, including decisions on loan modifications.
The financial challenges facing foreclosure-prevention programs come amid a debate in Washington over the effectiveness of the Obama administration's $30 billion Home Affordable Modification Program, which gives lenders incentives to make changes to borrowers' mortgages. Critics say the program has failed to prevent many foreclosures and has left countless homeowners in New York frustrated and desperate because so few applicants get permanent loan modifications.
But Ms. Ching argued that the program, while flawed, had been at least partially successful in Queens, where 11,200 homeowners currently face foreclosure. The county has the second-highest foreclosure rate among counties in New York State, after Suffolk, according to a study by the Empire Justice Center.
Legal advocacy, Ms. Ching said, is more imperative than ever now, as the loan modification process often drags on for months and the companies that service mortgages, typically large banks, continually lose homeowner paperwork or use delaying tactics.
She said that after the housing market collapsed, more than 90 percent of homeowners in Queens who faced foreclosure defaulted because they felt intimidated and did not appear in court. Since then, she said, her group has helped 600 low-income homeowners avoid losing their homes, and foreclosure defaults in Queens have fallen by 30 percent. In New York State, some 40,000 homeowners are fighting foreclosures.
In Queens, residents in middle-class enclaves like Jamaica and St. Albans complain that the values of their homes are dropping monthly due to foreclosures in their midst, while their once-tidy communities are becoming blighted by boarded-up houses with unmowed lawns.
Vicki Been, co-director of the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at the New York University School of Law, warned that foreclosures had devastating social and economic consequences, causing house prices to plummet, promoting crime and forcing children to change schools.
''We are hardly at the end of the foreclosure tsunami,'' she said. ''There continue to be a lot of people losing their homes. The numbers have softened, but the crisis is not over.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Queens Legal Services helped Luis Mendoza, with his sons Louis and Abraham. He was behind on a $477,000 mortgage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); LEGAL AID (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); VETO (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNORS (76%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); PRO BONO LAW (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%)

COMPANY: SERVICE ONE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011



432 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Recovery Seen In Rising Use Of Credit Cards

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Ever since the United States emerged from the recession, economists have been watching for signs that Americans are spending again.
This year, evidence is building that they are -- with every swipe of their credit cards.
In the most recent quarter, covering January to March, American Express, MasterCard and Visa all reported increases in card spending. Business and consumer spending in the United States helped propel that growth, along with global growth and an increase in merchants that accept cards.
''The dust is slowly coming off credit cards,'' said Gregory Daco, a senior economist with IHS Global Insight. ''It is a general return of consumers to credit card usage, but it is a cautious one. Income is lower and slowly making a comeback right now.'' 
In the last few years, consumers and household budgets have been constrained by the housing crisis, a weak job market and, most recently, high energy prices. Economists now are cautiously forecasting a turnaround in spending. Consumers cut debt after the 2008 financial crisis, this year's federal payroll tax cut is padding incomes, and consumers are adjusting to a labor market that appears to be stabilizing.
At the same time, the rate of deleveraging has been slowing, according to Federal Reserve data. Revolving credit balances, mostly credit cards, have generally been falling as demand declined, consumers used their cards less or paid them off, and banks wrote off nonperforming balances. Such balances reached $796.1 billion in March, compared with a peak of $973.6 billion in August 2008.
The most recent data show that revolving credit was up 2.9 percent in March compared with February, only the second monthly increase since late 2008. The other increase was in December 2010.
While these figures are moving in the right direction, Mr. Daco and other economists say there are still factors, like gas prices and other uncertainties, that could derail any progress.
''The positive news from the credit card issuers and processors is directly related to the increase in consumer spending over the past nine months and a more positive outlook for spending going forward,'' said Cristian deRitis, the director of consumer credit analytics at Moody's Analytics.
The card industry is a good gauge of how consumers are spending and what they are buying. It also shows how confident they are in reaching for their credit cards again. Consumers are starting to relieve some of the pent-up demand for autos, appliances and other goods that they had put off buying, analysts said.
''It is a psychological pall that is gradually lifting with the realization that the economy has in fact not been in recession for more than a year,'' said David Robertson, publisher of The Nilson Report, a journal covering the consumer payments industry.
''It is incremental,'' he added. ''It is not blockbuster.''
The three biggest card brands, reporting their results for the latest quarter, say the trends point to relative growth of Americans' consumer credit card use.
MasterCard said its first-quarter profit rose 24 percent, to $562 million, as people used cards more in global markets and to a lesser extent, as consumers swiped them more for nonessential items. Still, consumer spending in the United States has been surpassed by business spending.
''The recovery, such as it is in the United States, is really a commercially driven, as opposed to a consumer-driven thing,'' Timothy H. Murphy, the chief product officer for MasterCard, said at a recent investor conference.
MasterCard's credit card purchase volume was $115 billion in the first quarter of 2011, a 5 percent increase compared with the year earlier. While the company does not break down that spending, it said its consumer credit card spending rose. It was essentially flat in the fourth quarter of 2010 and negative going back to the second quarter of 2008. Analysts said that could mean consumers were returning to discretionary spending.
Visa, in its earnings report for the three months ending in March, showed $199 billion in credit purchase volumes in the United States, a 9 percent rise compared with the year-ago quarter. While the company did not break down the figure for consumers, the chief financial officer, Byron Pollitt, said credit was typically used more for discretionary purchases.
''As the economy recovers, our belief is that consumers, in combination with more employment, become more willing to spend on the discretionary side,'' he said during a conference call.
American Express reported that first-quarter consumer spending on its cards in the United States reached $96 billion, up 13 percent compared with last year.
''Over all, we are seeing consumers spending again across all categories and including discretionary items like travel and entertainment,'' a spokeswoman for the company, Joanna G. Lambert, said.
The quarterly results also suggest that more consumers were spending more freely, analysts said.
David J. Koning, a senior research analyst at Robert W. Baird & Company, said that while American Express typically had a more affluent cardholder base, for example, growth was accelerating at Visa and MasterCard. That may reflect a broader economic recovery, he said.
Mr. Robertson, of The Nilson Report, added, ''Those people at the very top are spending more quarter after quarter, as the wealthiest individuals overthrow whatever cloak of recessionary blues they might have had.''
He said, ''And that is permeating and dropping down further into the American credit card public.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Americans are spending more on their cards, and economists expect a turnaround. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON M. SPRECHER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHART: Visa Payments Rise: Earnings reports for Visa show a steady increase in credit card purchases over the last year, although the rise may be largely attributable to corporate users. (Source: Visa) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); BUSINESS ANALYTICS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%); EMPLOYMENT (67%)

COMPANY: VISA INC (91%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (90%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (91%); AXP (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011



433 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Health Insurers Profit as Many Postpone Care

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
The nation's major health insurers are barreling into a third year of record profits, enriched in recent months by a lingering recessionary mind-set among Americans who are postponing or forgoing medical care.
The UnitedHealth Group, one of the largest commercial insurers, told analysts that so far this year, insured hospital stays actually decreased in some instances. In reporting its earnings last week, Cigna, another insurer, talked about the ''low level'' of medical use.
Yet the companies continue to press for higher premiums, even though their reserve coffers are flush with profits and shareholders have been rewarded with new dividends. Many defend proposed double-digit increases in the rates they charge, citing a need for protection against any sudden uptick in demand once people have more money to spend on their health, as well as the rising price of care.
Even with a halting economic recovery, doctors and others say many people are still extremely budget-conscious, signaling the possibility of a fundamental change in Americans' appetite for health care. 
''I am noticing my patients with insurance are more interested in costs,'' said Dr. Jim King, a family practice physician in rural Tennessee. ''Gas prices are going up, food prices are going up. They are deciding to put some of their health care off.'' A patient might decide not to drive the 50 miles necessary to see a specialist because of the cost of gas, he said.
But Dr. King said patients were also being more thoughtful about their needs. Fewer are asking for an MRI as soon as they have a bad headache. ''People are realizing that this is my money, even if I'm not writing a check,'' he said.
For someone like Shannon Hardin of California, whose hours at a grocery store have been erratic, there is simply no spare cash to see the doctor when she isn't feeling well or to get the $350 dental crowns she has been putting off since last year. Even with insurance, she said, ''I can't afford to use it.'' Delaying care could keep utilization rates for insurers low through the rest of the year, according to Charles Boorady, an analyst for Credit Suisse. ''The big question is whether it is going to stay weak or bounce back,'' he said. ''Nobody knows.''
Significant increases in how much people have to pay for their medical care may prevent a solid rebound. In recent years, many employers have sharply reduced benefits, while raising deductibles and co-payments so people have to reach deeper into their pockets.
In 2010, about 10 percent of people covered by their employer had a deductible of at least $2,000, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonprofit research group, compared with just 5 percent of covered workers in 2008.
Doctors, for one, say patients' attitudes are changing. ''Because it's from Dollar 1 to Dollar 2,000, they are being really conscious of how they spend their money,'' said Dr. James Applegate, a family physician in Grand Rapids, Mich. For example, patients question the need for annual blood work.
High deductibles also can be daunting. David Welch, a nurse in California whose policy has a $4,000 deductible, said he was surprised to realize he had delayed going to the dermatologist, even though he had a history of skin cancer. Mr. Welch, who has been a supporter of the need to overhaul insurance industry practices for the California Nurses Association union, said he hoped his medical training would help him determine when to go to the doctor. ''I underestimated how much that cost would affect my behavior,'' he said.
Dr. Rebecca Jaffe, a family practice doctor in Wilmington, Del., said more patients were asking for the generic alternatives to brand-name medicines, because of hefty co-payments. ''Now, all of a sudden, they want the generic, when for years, they said they couldn't take it,'' she said.
The insurers, which base what they charge in premiums largely on what they expect to pay out in future claims, say they still expect higher demand for care later this year. ''I think there's a real concern about a bounce-back, a rebound, in utilization,'' said Dr. Lonny Reisman, the chief medical officer for Aetna.
Because they say they expect costs to rebound, insurers have not been shy about asking for higher rates. In Oregon, for example, Regence BlueCross BlueShield, a nonprofit insurer that is the state's largest, is asking for a 22 percent increase for policies sold to individuals. In California, regulators have been resisting requests from insurers to raise rates by double digits.
Some observers wonder if the insurers are simply raising premiums in advance of the full force of the health care law in 2014. The insurers' recent prosperity -- big insurance companies have reported first-quarter earnings that beat analysts expectations by an average of 30 percent -- may make it difficult for anyone, politicians and industry executives alike, to argue that the industry has been hurt by the federal health care law. Insurers were able to raise premiums to cover the cost of the law's early provisions, like insuring adult children up to age 26, and federal and state regulators have largely proved to be accommodating.
But 2014 and 2015 are likely to be far more challenging, as insurers are forced to adjust to the law's greatest changes, like providing coverage to everyone regardless of whether they have an expensive pre-existing condition. ''I think they're going to go through a winter,'' said Paul H. Keckley, executive director of the Deloitte Center for Health Solutions, a research unit of the consulting firm Deloitte.
And while the slowing down of demand is good for insurers, at least in the short term, the concern is that patients may be tempted to skip important tests like colonoscopies or mammograms. The new health care law will eventually prevent most policies from charging patients for certain kinds of preventive care, but some plans still require someone to pay $500 toward a colonoscopy.
In recent times, insurers have prospered by pricing policies above costs, said Robert Laszewski, a former health insurance executive who is now a consultant in Alexandria, Va. The industry goes through underwriting cycles where the companies are better able to predict costs and make room for profits. ''They're benefiting from a very positive underwriting cycle,'' he said.
''Maybe managed care is finally working,'' he said. ''Maybe this is the new normal.''
Still, he emphasized, health care costs, even if they are rising at 6 percent or 7 percent a year, are increasing at a much faster pace than overall inflation. ''We haven't solved the problem,'' Mr. Laszewski said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Rebecca Jaffe, in Wilmington, Del., said that after years of resisting generic medicines, more patients were now requesting them to avoid paying hefty co-payments for brand-name drugs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM SHAFFER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DENTAL INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); FAMILY PRACTICE (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HOSPITALS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); FOOD PRICES (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (73%); BUDGETS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%)

COMPANY: CIGNA CORP (90%); UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%)

TICKER: CI (NYSE) (90%); UNH (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (90%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011



434 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Rising Gas and Food Prices Push U.S. Inflation Higher

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Consumers continued to feel the pinch at grocery stores and gasoline stations in April as a widely used index of inflation rose at the fastest 12-month rate since the later part of 2008, according to government figures released on Friday.
The Labor Department said in its monthly report that the Consumer Price Index, the most widely used measure of inflation, was up 0.4 percent in April from March, and up 3.2 percent from a year earlier. The 12-month figure represents the biggest increase in the index in any 12-month period since October 2008. 
Analysts had forecast the same monthly rise but a slightly smaller increase for the year, at 3.1 percent.
Food and gasoline price rises accounted for most of the increases, with gasoline accounting for almost half of the month-to-month rise.
Food prices were up 0.4 percent in April, smaller than the 0.8 percent rise in March as prices for fresh vegetables slowed their advance. Energy prices rose 2.2 percent in April, the 10th consecutive monthly increase, although the rise was smaller than the jumps of 3.5 percent in March and 3.4 percent in February, the report said.
Gasoline prices were up 3.3 percent in April. According to the report, energy prices have now risen 19 percent over the last 12 months, with gasoline prices up 33.1 percent.
Consumers are ''painfully aware'' that if high energy and food costs continue, ''the cost of living is going to go up,'' said Stuart Hoffman, the chief economist at the PNC Financial Services Group.
Inflation as measured by the core C.P.I., which strips out volatile prices for energy and food, edged up 0.2 percent in April, making it the third increase of that size in the last four months, the department's Bureau of Labor Statistics said.
Housing and apparel prices each climbed by 0.2 percent, the figures showed.
Core inflation was up 1.3 percent from a year earlier, the department said. The core index, which was also in line with analysts' forecasts, was also pushed up by rises in the prices of new vehicles, shelter, medical care and airline tickets.
''I think that you are seeing inflation drift higher,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR Inc. ''On the core side it is a slow drift, but it is nonetheless there. What will be important to the Fed is the mix between inflation and real growth.''
Many economists expect gasoline prices to ease over the summer. But in some regions of the country, consumers have been paying $4 or more a gallon at the pump since demand in emerging markets and turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa in the first quarter of the year sent prices higher. While consumers are feeling the strain, economists emphasized that the Federal Reserve was unlikely to take any action to relieve it by lowering interest rates or extending its quantitative easing program.
The Fed has raised its forecast of inflation, projecting that prices could rise 2.1 to 2.8 percent this year, mostly because of higher oil prices, although it stressed that those increases would subside. In April, the Fed's policy-making body voted to continue several stimulus policies, like keeping short-term interest rates near zero. In a statement, the committee said it expected inflation from higher prices in energy and other commodities to be ''transitory.''
Mr. Hoffman said core inflation, which is the rate the Fed focuses on, had edged up in the last year, meaning the Fed could put deflation concerns behind it. The 1.3 percent rate in the latest report was still below the unofficial target of the central bank of 2 percent or less.
''It is still not of concern to the Fed,'' Mr. Hoffman said. ''We are sort of in the middle, not going up too fast to worry the Fed about inflation.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Consumer Prices: Percentage change, month to month, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); FOOD PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (74%); HOME PRICES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); EMERGING MARKETS (60%); TRAVEL TICKETS (50%)

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011



435 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: 3-D Art For All: Ready To Print

BYLINE: By MELENA RYZIK

 BODY:
As it turns out, there really is a great future in plastics.
''There's nothing like working with plastic!'' Marius Watz announced to an appreciative crowd at the start of a talk in Brooklyn recently. Mr. Watz, a Norwegian-born artist, was describing his work with MakerBot, a new consumer-grade, desktop-size 3-D printer. With some assembly and do-it-yourself tinkering, the MakerBot makes, or ''prints,'' three-dimensional objects from molten plastic, creating a piggy bank, say, or a Darth Vader head from a computer design at the touch of a button.
''I'd heard about 3-D printing in the '90s, but at that time it sounded like some sci-fi technology, like laser guns,'' Mr. Watz said. ''Basically, it sounded totally awesome.''
''Awesome'' was sort of the buzzword at MakerBot's inaugural open house, held at its warehouselike offices in Gowanus, Brooklyn, where Mr. Watz, its first artist in residence, showed off his sculptural forms (''We just started doing some blobby objects -- vaguely disturbing but also awesome'') to a few dozen admirers and MakerBot owners, mostly guys in various stages of nerdy bliss. (''Aaawwwe-some.'') 
After a burst of invention by three friends, the company was formed two years ago -- ''built on caffeine,'' said a founder, Bre Pettis -- and has since expanded to 32 employees and thousands of MakerBot kits sold. Three-D printing has existed for years, but the machines were cumbersome and expensive, relegated to art and engineering schools, often monopolized by specialists. The MakerBot, which tops out at about $1,300, gives anybody with a computer and an idea the same creative horsepower, and artists are beginning to take notice.
On Saturday 3rd Ward, the Brooklyn arts and design collective, will host a Make-a-Thon, where those interested can play with the Bots and receive miniature 3-D busts of themselves printed by Kyle McDonald, MakerBot's current artist in residence and an expert in digital scanning.
''It's definitely baked into the DNA of MakerBot that this is a tool for creative people,'' said Mr. Pettis, 38, who worked as a middle school art teacher in Seattle before starting the company with Zach Hoeken Smith, 28, and Adam Mayer, 35, hardware and Web developers. (They met at a Brooklyn hacker space.) As part of their mission, MakerBot's founders also embrace sharing: users are encouraged to post their designs for the machine on a company blog, Thingiverse, where anyone can have access to them, to print or modify.
''We're obsessively open-source,'' said Mr. Pettis, who, like many people in the MakerBot universe, speaks with the zeal of the technologically converted. ''In this age of the Internet, the sharers are the people who will come out ahead -- the people who make progress and then share it so that other people can stand on their shoulders.''
He knows his audience. John Abella, a MakerBot hobbyist from Huntington, N.Y., came to the open house with a bin full of objects for the show-and-tell.
''Almost all these things are things we got off Thingiverse,'' he said, clutching a brightly colored plastic doodad. ''We have a rabbit that someone put a dragon head on.''
Mr. Abella, 35, who works in network security, said the appeal of MakerBot was that ''everybody sees it with their own slant.''
''My wife's friends look at it, and they ask me for cookie cutters in shapes that don't exist,'' he continued. ''At work people see it and say, 'Can that replace the missing part in the company Ping-Pong table?' '' (Probably, though the MakerBot has its limits -- it can print objects that are at most five inches on a side, at relatively low resolution.)
Another hobbyist, Ed Hebel, made a carrying case for a single cigarette. ''I go out and I don't want to take a whole pack of cigarettes,'' Mr. Hebel, an engineer from upstate New York, said, demonstrating his little holder, which he invented for the show-and-tell. ''This is called a Lucy. I thought of this like two days ago. I thought for like 20 minutes, and I thought of this. And an hour later, I printed it.''
And shortly after that, it went up on Thingiverse, where, despite Mr. Hebel's disclaimer that smoking is bad, another user quickly suggested a modification.
As part of its open-source ethos, in its offices MakerBot has a ''botfarm'' -- 18 machines capable of operating almost continuously -- that it will give over to worthwhile projects. Michael Felix, a Brooklyn designer, used it to make the hinges for a giant geodesic dome he built for a music video shoot. Noting that nearly 4,500 MakerBots have been sold so far, Mr. Pettis said, ''For artists, it's kind of like, imagine, you create something that's a 3-D model, there's 4,500 different locations in the world where it can seep out of the Internet into the real world and blow people's minds.''
But the ease of replication does present some questions for art professionals.
''Art is not traditionally an open-source practice,'' Mr. Watz, who is represented by the DAM gallery in Berlin, noted dryly at the open house. Nonetheless, he posted some of his technical specs on Thingiverse, explaining that he didn't want to take advantage of the generous community spirit there without giving back.
And as a digitally oriented artist, Mr. Watz said, he had long questioned the art market's economy of scarcity, even if he participated in it with limited-edition designs. For prospective buyers, he does offer to sign his MakerBot work, which brings up another question.
''What is the real value of my signature on the object?'' he mused, adding: ''When I'm trying to model with the MakerBot, I don't consider that printed model the final product. It's the process that is the significant part.''
Some Bot artists are just excited about the machine's practical applications. David Bell and Joe Scarpulla have been laboring for years on a stop-motion animated film and photo series with an elaborate, labor-intensive miniature set. On a whim, Mr. Bell and Mr. Scarpulla bought a MakerBot -- a ''CupCake'' model, which costs about $700 -- and found it to be a good fit as a custom manufacturer.
''Our first successful prop was a miniature toilet bowl,'' Mr. Bell said. ''We're outfitting an entire apartment in 1/8 scale. So far we've done sinks and light sockets, a bathtub and pots and pans.'' Including the painstaking design process and troubleshooting, using the Bot takes the same amount of time as hand carving, Mr. Scarpulla added, ''but the results are definitely better.''
Now they are imagining other things they can use their machine for, on a much bigger scale. ''It opens up a lot of opportunities,'' Mr. Bell said.
That sentiment was echoed by Mr. Watz and Mr. McDonald and visible on a tour of MakerBot headquarters, known as the Botcave. In the front, by the whirring Botfarm, is a vending machine of Bot-extruded plastic bangles. Employees sit behind stacks of products with high-tech Seussian names, like Thingomatic Gen. 4 Subkit for Stepper Drivers V 3.3.
Little plastic doohickeys and thingamabobs cover many surfaces. (A new employee recalled being told to print out his own coat hook.) Mr. McDonald, 25, comes nearly every day to work on his MakerBot project, which turns the Kinect, an inexpensive 3-D scanner and Xbox accessory, into a miniature replicator. Though his previous work was theoretical -- his background is in computer science and philosophy, which translated to an interest in ''democratizing technology,'' he said -- playing with plastics and engaging with other Bot fiends has changed his focus.
''Now I think about physical things,'' he said. ''I spend a lot of time thinking, how can these systems be used in an interactive way? It's basically my full-time job to inspire myself and others. It doesn't pay very well, but I'm happy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Enthusiasts in Brooklyn examining 3-D plastic art from a MakerBot printer. (C1)
Objects printed by the MakerBot, like this octopus, can be no more than five inches on a side.
The curious may try out the MakerBot on Saturday at 3rd Ward in Brooklyn.
 Kyle McDonald, MakerBot's current artist in residence, experimenting with a display before printing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ENGINEERING (75%); LASER WEAPONS (68%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (63%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (62%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011



436 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Costs of a Lower Mortgage Cap

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

 BODY:
The approaching end of federal guarantees for very expensive mortgages is worrying potential home buyers - and sellers - in high-cost markets. Will they be able to get financing? How much more will they have to pay for that financing?
The limits on mortgages that can be backed by the federal government were raised in 2008 to ease the pain of the housing debacle in areas with high home prices. (Without government backing, many lenders would have refused to finance such loans when the housing bubble burst.) But the current higher limits are due to expire Sept. 30 unless Congress acts to extend them. 
Groups like the National Association of Realtors are lobbying to extend the higher caps, arguing that removing them might cause further declines in home values, given the still-fragile housing market. But, as The Times reported Wednesday, that idea is meeting resistance from both Democrats and Republicans, who think it's time for the private market, not taxpayers, to bear the risk of very big mortgages.
The impact of the coming change is expected to be felt well before Oct. 1, since most loans take more than a month to close. That means borrowers may confront the new criteria as early as this summer. To help put the change in perspective, Bucks asked Cameron Findlay, chief economist at Lendingtree, to outline a hypothetical example of a borrower who could be affected by the lower limits.
First, some background. Before the housing crisis mushroomed in 2008, the limit for a government-insured loan was $417,000 nationally. Loans above that amount were considered ''nonconforming'' or ''jumbo'' loans, in mortgage lingo, and carried a higher interest rate to reflect their higher risk. That loan limit still applies in most of the country, and borrowers seeking loans below that amount shouldn't be directly affected by the coming change. But for the last three years, the formula used raised the limit to as much as $729,750 in areas with high median home prices. The move created a new tier of loans that were eligible for government backing but, in practice, still subject to slightly higher interest rates.
Now, a change in the formula that takes effect Oct. 1 will lower the maximum to $625,500. The change is expected to be felt especially hard in high-priced markets on the coasts, including California, New York, New Jersey and Washington. (For a detailed explanation of the formula and a rundown of its impact on various counties, see this report from the Federal Housing Finance Administration.)
Now, let's consider the impact on Mr. Findlay's borrower. Say ''Joe Homebuyer'' seeks a $700,000 loan today for a house in an upscale neighborhood. The loan amount falls between the ''baseline'' limit of $417,000 and the current maximum of $729,750. That makes it a ''conforming jumbo'' loan, in the latest lender parlance. Such loans carry a premium of about 0.10 percentage point over the going interest rate of 4.75 percent. So Joe's rate today would be 4.85 percent, which translates into $42 more a month.
Here's what happens after Oct. 1. Joe's loan is still $700,000, but it's over the new $625,500 maximum. It's now a ''true jumbo'' - ineligible for federal backing - and subject to a higher premium of 0.60 percentage point, making the interest rate 5.35 percent. That's a stiff $257 more each month over the going rate.
So in the end, Joe ends end up paying $215 more ($257 minus $42) per month under the new rules.
Mr. Findlay noted that all sorts of factors could affect an actual borrower's interest rate, including his credit score and debt-to-income ratio. And the premium for jumbo loans, for example, could rise higher than 60 basis points, depending on the mortgage market. In the midst of the housing crisis, it was more than double that. ''It can be substantial when the market is in turmoil,'' he said.
Do you think the higher loan limits should be extended? Are you concerned about selling your home, or getting a mortgage to buy one, if the limits are not extended?
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A house in Pacific Grove, Calif., is listed at $895,000. Soon, the government will no longer insure mortgages over $625,500. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011



437 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Trustees Say Medicare Finances Worsened Because of Sluggish Economy

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The financial outlook for Medicare deteriorated in the last year because of the sluggish economic recovery, and the program's hospital insurance trust fund will be exhausted in 2024, five years earlier than projected last year, the government said Friday.
The estimates, in the annual report by the Medicare trustees, were immediately swept up into the already inflamed political battle over federal spending, debt and the future of entitlement programs. 
The trustees said that payroll tax revenues, which provide most of the money for Medicare's hospital insurance trust fund, were lower than expected last year because earnings were ''considerably lower than projected'' and the economy was weaker than expected.
Republicans said the bleaker picture for Medicare showed a need for immediate action to shore up the finances of the program, which insures 47.5 million people who are 65 and older or disabled.
''The biggest threat Medicare faces right now is the status quo,'' said the House speaker, John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio. ''The trustees' report makes it clear that if we do nothing, Medicare will not be able to pay promised benefits to American seniors.''
Democrats said that the financial outlook for Medicare would have been much worse without the new health care law. The law, which President Obama cites as one of his greatest political accomplishments, promises to be a central point of conflict in the 2012 presidential election.
Without the new law, said Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, ''Medicare would have gone bankrupt in 2016, only five years from now.''
Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said, ''The current economic crisis has hit the Medicare trust fund, and hit it hard.'' Mr. Baucus, an architect of the new law, and other Democrats vowed to resist Republican efforts to repeal it.
The trustees said the financial outlook for Social Security had changed little. They said the Social Security trust fund would be exhausted in 2036, one year sooner than projected in last year's report, and even then, they said, tax revenue would be sufficient to pay three-fourths of promised benefits through 2085.
It is inconceivable that politicians would allow either program to run out of money. The projected dates of insolvency are widely used as a measure of the financial condition of Social Security and Medicare, which together account for more than one-third of all federal spending.
In unveiling the new estimates, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, the managing trustee of the trust funds, noted the need for additional borrowing to keep the government's myriad commitments in other programs.
''On Monday,'' Mr. Geithner said, ''just three days from today, the United States will reach the debt limit set by Congress. Because Congress has not yet acted, we have now set in motion a series of extraordinary measures that will give Congress some additional time to raise the debt limit.''
As a condition of increasing the debt limit, many Republicans are demanding changes in benefit programs. But House Republicans have discovered that they are playing with political dynamite when they propose major changes in Medicare.
The reports were signed by the six trustees: three cabinet officers, the Social Security commissioner and two public representatives.
The Medicare report included a disclaimer by the chief Medicare actuary, Richard S. Foster. ''The financial projections shown in this report for Medicare do not represent a reasonable expectation for actual program operations'' in the short term or the long range, said Mr. Foster, a civil servant whose independence is protected by law.
The projections assume that Medicare will cut doctors' fees by 29 percent on Jan. 1, as required under current law, but Congress routinely intercedes to block such cuts.
Moreover, the report says that projected Medicare costs over 75 years are about 25 percent lower because of the new health care law.
Under the law, Medicare will hold down payments to hospitals and other health care providers to reflect presumed increases in productivity. But, Mr. Foster said, if these constraints are kept in place, Medicare payments to providers will eventually be ''far below the levels paid by private health insurance.''
''Well before that point,'' Mr. Foster added, ''Congress would have to intervene to prevent the withdrawal of providers from the Medicare market and the severe problems with beneficiary access to care that would result.'' This, in turn, would ''lead to far higher costs for Medicare in the long range than those projected'' in the report, he said.
The report on Social Security predicts that beneficiaries will receive a cost-of-living increase of seven-tenths of one percent in 2012. Because of low inflation, beneficiaries did not receive increases this year or in 2010.
Turning to the long-range outlook for Social Security, the trustees said the gap between income and costs over the next 75 years would be somewhat larger than projected in last year's report. One reason is that the trustees now believe that people will live longer, thus lowering mortality rates for the population 65 and older.
Population experts have said for some years that Social Security was underestimating gains in life spans likely to occur in the 21st century.
The trustees also revised their estimates of immigration. Because of the weak economy, they said, the number of immigrants entering the United States is assumed to be lower than in last year's report. This adversely affects the long-range financial outlook for Social Security because ''immigration occurs at relatively young ages,'' and taxes paid by immigrant workers help finance Social Security benefits for retirees.
The trustees sounded an alarm about financial problems in Social Security's disability insurance program. The trust fund for this program will be exhausted in 2018, they said, ''so legislative action will be needed as soon as possible.''
In a joint statement, the two public trustees, Charles P. Blahous III and Robert D. Reischauer , warned, ''The financial shortfalls confronting both Social Security and Medicare are substantial and -- absent legislation to correct them -- quite certain.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: How Long Will the Trust Funds Last? Number of years the Medicare and Social Security trust funds are estimated to remain solvent. (Sources: Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
 Social Security Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); DEBT CEILING (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); POLITICS (76%); AGING (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (59%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: MAX BAUCUS (57%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); JOHN BOEHNER (56%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (53%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011



438 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Georgia Gives Police Added Power to Seek Out Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

 BODY:
ATLANTA -- Gov. Nathan Deal of Georgia on Friday signed into law one of the nation's toughest immigration measures, empowering local police officers to question certain suspects about their immigration status. 
The law is similar to measures in Arizona and Utah that have drawn legal challenges and economic boycotts. Mr. Deal, a Republican, said he would have preferred a comprehensive immigration overhaul from the federal government.
''Illegal immigration is a complex and troublesome issue, and no state alone can fix it,'' he said. ''We will continue to have a broken system until we have a federal solution. In the meantime, states must act to defend their taxpayers.''
The law takes effect July 1. Already, civil rights groups, including the American Civil Liberties Union and the Southern Poverty Law Center, say they are considering lawsuits against Georgia. Business groups, including the state Chamber of Commerce, have raised fears that the law will diminish tourism. In Arizona and Utah, court injunctions have delayed carrying out the laws while their constitutionality is determined.
One of the Georgia law's authors, Matthew L. Ramsey, a Republican state legislator, said the measure was written to withstand legal challenges. Lawmakers set clear guidelines on when the police are allowed to request a suspect's immigration status, he said. The law allows state and local police officers to request immigration documentation from criminal suspects and, if they do not receive it, to take the suspects to jails, where federal officials could begin the deportation process.
''States don't have the legal authority to deport. We don't have the legal authority to secure our borders,'' Mr. Ramsey said. ''But our goal is, within a constitutional framework, to eliminate incentives for illegal aliens to cross into our state.''
The law also creates stricter requirements for businesses hiring workers and harsher punishments for anyone who harbors or employs an illegal immigrant. There are 425,000 illegal immigrants in Georgia, the seventh most of any state, the Pew Hispanic Center estimates. Two other Southern states, Alabama and South Carolina, are also considering similar immigration bills that are expected by many experts to pass this year.
Tom Smith, a finance professor at Emory University, said Georgia businesses were bracing for the impact. Some studies suggest that that Arizona's law has cost the state as much as $250 million in convention business, he said.
''People are looking at the history in Arizona and thinking, 'Could a law in Georgia could have the same impact?' '' Professor Smith said. ''We're waiting to see whether that will happen in Georgia now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Nathan Deal took questions after signing the bill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S LESSER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); DEPORTATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LITIGATION (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); BOYCOTTS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); INJUNCTIONS (68%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (67%); WRITERS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%)

COMPANY: SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (69%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (56%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (69%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (69%)

PERSON: NATHAN DEAL (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011



439 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: A True Finnish Spring

BYLINE: By ANU PARTANEN. 
Anu Partanen, a former staff writer for the newspaper Helsingin Sanomat, is writing a memoir about being Scandinavian in America.

 BODY:
Helsinki, Finland
ONE of my best friends posted the first plea at 8:41 p.m. Finnish time last month: ''Please, adopt me until I can find permanent living arrangements in America.'' Other friends soon inundated Facebook with similar requests for refuge at my apartment in Brooklyn. They hunted for plane tickets, researched visa regulations and vowed to leave Finland for good.
This was not a result of a natural disaster or armed revolution, but rather of a very proper, very democratic election that shocked me and my friends and startled much of the world. Overnight, Finland seemed transformed from possibly the most sensible, even boring, country in Europe -- known for excellent schools, zero corruption, gender equality and a pro-European Union approach to politics -- into the nationalistic, populist, Euro-skeptic home of the True Finn Party. 
Having lived for two years in the United States, I arrived for a visit home this month to a changed land. The long, dark Nordic winter was finally over and the streets of Helsinki were bursting with the bright green of new birch leaves. Usually Finns are gleeful this time of year, but the mood now is sober. My parents and friends talk of nothing but the election results and the risks and benefits of Finland's policies toward the European Union. Political discussions are even breaking out among strangers in the subway -- unheard of here, where we are famous for keeping to ourselves.
The most heated debates revolve around a country at the other end of Europe: Portugal. On the heels of the bailouts of Greece and Ireland, debt-ridden Portugal has been counting on a 78 billion euro rescue package, about $115.5 billion. When the True Finns won 39 seats in Finland's 200-member Parliament, they became the third-largest party, with enough leverage to try to block Finland from contributing its share. This had the potential to derail the entire rescue package, calling into question the survival of the euro zone itself.
The True Finns have, like populist parties in Denmark, France and the Netherlands, campaigned to restrict immigration, defend family values and stand up to the European Union. In America you might consider them the equivalent of Tea Partiers (if they didn't support the welfare state, that is).
Their rise is interpreted as a reaction to the harsh realities of the new millennium. Finland's flagship company, Nokia, is shedding jobs at home. Our welfare state is facing cuts because of the global recession. Europe's lack of travel restrictions has led to an influx of Eastern European panhandlers.
Myself, I've benefited a great deal from the European Union -- I've studied abroad, traveled easily, enjoyed a strong euro. Like most of my friends I believe in solidarity and in helping the weak.
Yet I was shaken when I learned that we Finns were supposed to lend money to Greece. It didn't seem fair that my taxes would go to a country that had been living beyond its means.
Our resentment toward being asked to help our far-flung partners in the Union is also exposing the hypocrisy behind another dearly held Finnish tradition: our disgust at how little compassion Americans seem to have for their fellow citizens in terms of sharing the wealth. When my friends criticize the United States for failing to provide universal health care, I point out that America is twice the size of the European Union. It's not quite parallel, but if Finns were asked to contribute to the health care of the Greeks, the Irish and the Portuguese, they might feel a little like Americans.
And now they do.
Friday afternoon, without the support of the True Finns, Portugal's bailout was endorsed in Parliament, clearing the way for its approval by the European Union on Monday.
Because they failed to get what they wanted, the True Finns dropped out of the negotiations to become a coalition partner in the new government.
But even if they won't play a major role in determining Finnish policy, the True Finns have prompted some lasting changes, and transformed Finland's meek stance toward Europe. The leading parties have refused to back further bailouts unless the country in question provides direct guarantees on the loans. (Would Finns, known for their fondness for liquor, like a stake in Greece's ouzo distilleries?)
And the debate they started -- about what kind of country Finland is, and wants to be -- continues. The True Finns fear that the Finnish way of life will be undermined by immigrants. In my ''red-green'' circles -- as the politically leftist and environmentally aware are called -- the fear is that Finland will succumb to close-minded bigots and lose the diversity and benefits that come from belonging to a larger European community.
For my part, I did what I could to help -- I offered a place on my couch in Brooklyn to any political refugees. But in the end, my friends in Helsinki seem to be deciding that this is no time for retreat. Instead they'll stay to help determine the future of their country.
Perhaps in the process, we Finns will learn something from that union of states on the other side of the Atlantic. And maybe we'll even be able to offer some suggestions in return.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GRAY318) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EURO (88%); FAMILY (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); POLITICS (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); IMMIGRATION (71%); TRAVEL TICKETS (71%); PANHANDLING (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (69%); BAILOUTS (69%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (69%); MILLENNIUM (68%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (68%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); NATURAL DISASTERS (56%); GENDER EQUALITY (54%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HELSINKI, FINLAND (90%) FINLAND (96%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PORTUGAL (91%); FRANCE (79%); DENMARK (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); GREECE (71%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011



440 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: In Shift, Ads Try to Entice Over-55 Set

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER and TANZINA VEGA

 BODY:
After 40 years of catering to younger consumers, advertisers and media executives are coming to a different realization: older people aren't so bad, after all.
Marketers like Kellogg's, Skechers and 5-Hour Energy drink are broadening their focus to those 55 and up, who were largely ignored in most of their media plans until recently. During next week's upfront announcements, the annual preview of the fall television season, network executives are planning to introduce shows created to have broad appeal, including to older viewers, and the ad dollars they represent.
This amounts to a reversal in thinking that took hold during the 1960s, when advertisers first started aiming for baby boomers, the largest segment of the United States population. But the reasons for the shift are not just demographic, they are economic.
As a result of the recent recession, unemployment rates for younger age groups have been far higher than those for older Americans. The most recent unemployment rate for those 20 to 24 years old is 14.2 percent; for those 25 to 34, it is 9.4 percent. The rate for people aged 55 to 64 is only 6.2 percent. 
Financially, the disparity is similar. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, those people aged 45 to 54 and 55 to 64 had the highest median weekly earnings of any age segment in the United States: $844 and $860, respectively. Meanwhile, those 20 to 24 had weekly earnings of only $454. Those who are 25 to 34 earned $682.
Stephanie Pappas, a senior planner for BBDO NY, said there was now good reason for ad clients to seek the mature audience.
''In some ways, they are the ideal consumer. They have money, they consume loads of media, and they remain optimistic,'' she said.
The bimonthly magazine for AARP has been pushing to attract new advertisers, according to Patricia Lippe Davis, the vice president for marketing for AARP media. Recently, products previously thought of as youthful -- brands like Jeep and Shape-ups by Skechers -- have advertised in AARP The Magazine.
''The grandkids say I'm 'really cool now' but what they don't know is I always was,'' reads the text of the Jeep ad.
''We've seen an increase in advertisers targeting this booming demographic, many of whom are not the types of advertisers you'd expect to see in our media properties,'' Ms. Davis wrote in an e-mail.
For decades, television has been the most determined proselytizer on behalf of the premium value of reaching consumers aged 18 to 49. In the 1960s, ABC found itself hopelessly uncompetitive with CBS and NBC in what was then the standard ratings measurement, total households. So the network adopted a strategy to appeal to younger viewers with programs like ''Batman,'' ''Shindig,'' and ''Mod Squad.''
The idea caught on, and even as the boomer generation grew older, advertisers continued to court younger viewers -- first on the theory that they had not yet established brand loyalty, then because they were harder to reach than mature viewers who watched far more television.
Since then, all advertising sales have been based on two main groups, those people aged 18 to 49, and those 25 to 54. Once viewers reached 55, they were considered all but valueless.
In the last decade, NBC has been a central force in pushing that view, as the home of youth-oriented hits like ''Friends'' and ''The Office.'' But Alan Wurtzel, the president of research for NBC Universal, initiated a study last year into a group he labeled ''alpha boomers,'' the leading edge of the baby boom generation, which is now turning 65.
For companies to avoid shifting advertising and marketing attention toward older Americans is ''a big mistake,'' he said. ''You risk not only growth, but at some point you risk your brand.''
Mr. Wurtzel said that as NBC put together its lineup of potential new series for fall, he made the programmers in the company aware of the attractiveness of the 55-plus audience. He described it as ''one of the things we look at when we look at pilots.''
The network has already ordered a new series, ''Playboy,'' set in the 1960s, and this week renewed the drama ''Harry's Law,'' which stars Kathy Bates, who is 62.
Mature consumers also seem to be spending on categories not traditionally associated with older people. NBC's study of those people 55 to 64 showed that they spent more than the average consumer on categories like home improvement, large appliances, casual dining and cosmetics.
They have also become heavy spenders on electronics and digital devices. The study also showed that members of the 55-to-64 age group were just as likely as those ages 18 to 34 to have high-definition televisions, digital video recorders and broadband service.
''They don't buy everything,'' Mr. Wurtzel said. ''These folks don't play video games. But iPods? Yeah. iPads? Absolutely.''
By contrast, CBS has for years argued that viewers of any age should count -- and CBS had by far the oldest audience. Recently, CBS seemed to build an effective strategy for reaching all audiences with broad-based hits like ''CSI'' and ''NCIS'' that feature older actors like Mark Harmon (although they are typically surrounded by younger performers).
The dismissal of CBS's strategy seems to have ended. ''There is no perception that CBS has an inferior audience,'' said David F. Poltrack, the chief research officer for CBS.
The median age for audiences for every broadcast network has moved upward since 2006. NBC has moved to 50.1, from 48.5; ABC increased to 52.3, from 47.4. Fox, always the youngest network, aged to 45.4, from 41.5. CBS began at 53 and is now at a median age of 56.
''American Idol,'' once considered the hot show for young people, finished its first season 10 years ago with a median age of 32.1. This season, its median age is 47.2. ABC's biggest hit, ''Dancing with the Stars'' has a large complement of 50-plus viewers.
Patricia McDonough, senior vice president for insights, analysis and policy for Nielsen, said, ''35 to 64 is becoming a relatively common target now.''
Brent Bouchez, the founder of Agency Five-0, which caters to older consumers, said the biggest misconception about the group was that older Americans wanted to be younger. He cited the example of Ketel One, a vodka brand that he drank before it changed its advertising to aim for a younger audience. Mr. Bouchez said he stopped asking for the vodka at bars.
''I don't want to look like the 53-year-old who's trying to look 30,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NBC this week renewed the drama ''Harry's Law,'' which stars Kathy Bates. As NBC put together its fall series, the programmers were reminded of the attractiveness of the 55-plus audience. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JORDIN ALTHAUS/NBC)
 Products viewed as youthful -- Shape-ups by Skechers -- have advertised with AARP. (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); YOUTH MARKET (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); TEENS MARKET (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); BABY BOOMERS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); STATISTICS (68%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (65%)

COMPANY: KELLOGG CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%)

TICKER: K (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (58%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (58%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011



441 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Union Concessions to Avert Connecticut Layoffs

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

 BODY:
HARTFORD -- Threatened with nearly 5,000 layoffs, representatives for 45,000 unionized state employees agreed Friday to $1.6 billion in concessions over two years to help balance a budget that Gov. Dannel P. Malloy says includes pain for everyone: record tax increases, substantial program cuts and worker givebacks in health care, pension benefits and wages.
Mr. Malloy announced the deal after two months of negotiations and the passage of a budget last week that assumed concessions before they were accepted by the unions. He said the deal, which is still subject to ratification by workers, would save Connecticut taxpayers $21.5 billion over 20 years through structural changes in employee compensation. 
The governor, a Democrat who won election in November with strong union support, has carved out a national niche as a politician seeking an approach to state governance different from the confrontational stances taken by Republican counterparts like Chris Christie in New Jersey and Scott Walker in Wisconsin. Despite layoff notices that started going out this week, Mr. Malloy and labor leaders maintained a cordial public tone throughout the bargaining.
Mr. Malloy hailed the deal as ''historic because of the way we achieved it -- we respected the collective-bargaining process and we respected each other, negotiating in good faith, without fireworks and without anger.'' He also called the deal ''the most significant agreement with state employees in Connecticut history'' for its long-term approach.
Republicans were far less impressed; the party's chairman, Chris Healy, called the agreement a ''budget charade,'' with insufficient work force cuts because of Mr. Malloy's close ties to employee unions.
The agreement includes a provision that no unionized employees will be laid off for four years and a two-year freeze on wages for all employees. Mr. Malloy said he nevertheless planned to reduce the size of the government through attrition and the elimination of managerial positions.
The concessions fall $400 million short of the $2 billion Mr. Malloy sought, a difference that will be made up with more spending cuts and revenues that are higher than had been anticipated.
But no further details are being released as negotiators take the agreement to 34 bargaining units at 15 unions; it needs 14 of those unions and 80 percent of the voting members to approve it. Union officials said they would send details to members immediately, and planned to make them public at the beginning of next week.
Larry Dorman, a spokesman for the unions, said it was hard to predict how members would react, but the deal should be evaluated in terms of contentious anti-union sentiments and turmoil in Wisconsin, Ohio and elsewhere. ''I hate to say if it's good or bad,'' he said, ''but we stand behind it and think it's the right thing to do in these difficult times.''
Republicans said it was impossible to assess the package fully without more specifics, but said the amicable dealings between Mr. Malloy and union leaders were not necessarily a good sign.
''A lot of people have asked where's the outrage, the kind of outrage you saw in Wisconsin and around the country where various governors, especially Republican governors, have wanted to make changes,'' the House Republican leader, Larry Cafero, said.
Mr. Cafero said the $40.1 billion, two-year budget approved by the Democratic-controlled Legislature relied too much on tax increases and not enough on reducing the size of government. The promise of no layoffs, he said, would leave the state in a precarious position if the economy again plummeted.
State officials said the agreement did not contain any furlough days or reductions in hours for permanent employees. Other details were scarce, but The Hartford Courant reported that provisions include wage increases of 3 percent for each of three years after the two-year freeze, and a rise in the retirement age by three years for state employees who retire after 2017.
Mr. Malloy said, ''This is the definition of structural savings: these savings are real, and they provide relief to Connecticut taxpayers now and into the future for years to come.''
In an antitax era, the new budget depends in large part on almost $1.5 billion in increased taxes on personal income, corporations and an array of purchases and services, from yachts to inexpensive clothing, to plug a deficit once estimated between $3.2 billion and $3.5 billion.
And while the confrontational approach has made Governor Christie of New Jersey a hot property, there is no early indication that what Mr. Malloy calls ''shared sacrifice'' is working as well for him. A Quinnipiac University poll in March put his approval rating at 35 percent.
The Republican Senate leader, John McKinney, said that in addition to the no-layoff provision, he was concerned with how long the clauses on pensions and health benefits would last: through 2022. He said that committed future legislators to a deal that might no longer make sense.
And Mr. Cafero said the shared sacrifice was mostly borne by taxpayers. ''We're not spending less on government next year, and we've foisted on the public the largest tax increase in the history of the state,'' he said. ''I don't call that balanced. He's defined sacrifice within the four corners of the budget and is saying everyone has to say ouch a little bit. Well, the taxpayers are saying ouch a lot.''
Roy Occhiogrosso, a Malloy spokesman, disputed Republican claims and defended the agreement. ''Taxpayers are saving $1.6 billion over the next two years, and there will be no layoffs,'' he said. ''This is the most fiscally responsible budget in the country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Dannel P. Malloy, standing center at right, on Friday announced a deal negotiated with officials of public employee unions. He released few details, but Republican leaders quickly questioned the prudence of the agreement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA HILL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); APPROVALS (72%); TAX LAW (72%)

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (91%); SCOTT WALKER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011



442 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: A Deficit Cure: Who Picks Up the Bill?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Raise Taxes, but Not Tax Rates,'' by Martin S. Feldstein (Op-Ed, May 5):
I hope this proposal to cap income-tax tax reductions to a percentage of adjusted gross income will not gain traction in Congress. The objection is not that it raises new revenue, but that it further complicates the tax code by adding another layer of calculations much as the Alternative Minimum Tax does. 
As an upper-middle-income taxpayer, I'm willing to pay increased income taxes in exchange for a truly simplified tax system. A simplified tax system would have no deductions, exemptions or credits; would be broad-based and mildly progressive; and would assure taxpayers that no one can game the system and gain preferential treatment.
Under a simplified system, we would not have to track and report individual expenses or worry if we missed a deduction that would legally entitle us to a lower tax. Such a system would result in improved compliance and therefore increased revenue. Mr. Feldstein's proposal misses this crucial point.
KARL THOMPSON Pennington, N.J., May 5, 2011
To the Editor:
In order to raise revenues, someone has to pay more taxes. The only question is, Who pays?
Limiting deductions, credits and exclusions will have a far greater impact on middle-class taxpayers than President Obama's original proposal to increase marginal tax rates for those earning more than $250,000.
''Capping tax expenditures'' makes it seem as if you can raise revenues without increasing people's tax burden. But this is not what is being proposed. If Martin S. Feldstein and others think the solution to the debt crisis is to increase taxes on the middle class, they should say so.
LAWRENCE KAPLAN Ardsley, N.Y., May 5, 2011
To the Editor:
It's refreshing to see a Reagan Republican acknowledge that we need to collect more revenue, not just reduce spending, if we are to end the ''explosion of our national debt.''
Martin S. Feldstein's suggestion of limiting total reductions to 2 percent of adjusted gross income would help control our propensity for ever more tax deductions. But he only discusses individual tax deductions. We should limit corporate tax deductions, too.
General Electric, we learned recently, had enormous profits in 2010 while miraculously owing almost no tax. Clearly, corporate tax reform is at least as pressing as personal tax reform.
DAVID SHAYER Palo Alto, Calif., May 5, 2011
To the Editor:
Like many Republicans, Martin S. Feldstein supported the Bush tax cuts that primarily benefited economic elites and contributed to our current budget deficits. Mr. Feldstein now proposes to reduce those deficits, not by eliminating those tax cuts, but by taxing money spent on health insurance and mortgage interest. That sounds like a good deal for economic elites and a bad deal for middle- and working-class Americans.
Instead, let's return to the tax rates of yesteryear. We would simultaneously start to eliminate the huge deficits of the Reagan, Bush I and Bush II eras and continue to foster a healthy (literally) middle-class America.
MELISSA MACAULEY Evanston, Ill., May 5, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEWIS SCOTT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX REFORM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); CORPORATE TAX (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); CORPORATE DEBT (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); DEBT CRISIS (68%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011



443 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: A Tumble for Shares in Technology and Finance

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks were mostly lower on Friday, erasing a weekly gain, as CA Inc. led technology shares lower after its earnings missed estimates. Bank stocks slid over concerns about Europe's debt crisis and closer government scrutiny.
CA, one of the largest makers of software for mainframe computers, tumbled 8.6 percent, its biggest drop since 2009. Nvidia, the maker of 3-D graphics processors, fell 10.9 percent. The Janus Capital Group lost 4.5 percent to lead financial companies to the biggest decline among 24 industries.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 10.88 points, or 0.81 percent, to 1,337.77, leaving it down 0.2 percent for the week. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 100.17 points, or 0.79 percent, to 12,595.75. The Nasdaq fell 34.57 points, or 1.21 percent, to 2,828.47. 
''You're seeing liquidity drain off. People have had a good year so far and rather than get tagged for staying too long at the party, they're exiting,'' said Peter Sorrentino, a senior portfolio manager at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati. ''With all the liquidity out there needing a home, it's a tug of war back and forth between inflation fear and a need to keep that money invested.''
The S.& P. 500 has fallen 1.9 percent this month as gauges of energy and raw-material producers slumped with metal and oil prices. The gauge has still climbed 6.4 percent this year as government stimulus measures and corporate earnings raised confidence in the recovery.
Economic data showed the cost of living climbed in April by 0.4 percent, led by gains in food and fuel prices. That follows a 0.5 percent gain in March.
Consumer confidence climbed more than forecast in May, with the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary consumer sentiment index rising to 72.4, a three-month high, from a final reading of 69.8 in April.
Reports in Europe showed that Germany and France powered economic growth in the euro area in the first quarter as booming exports fueled domestic spending in the bloc's core, offsetting sovereign debt concerns.
''People are fearful that bad news will come out of Europe over the weekend,'' said Paul Zemsky, the head of asset allocation for ING Investment Management in New York.
Technology companies were the two worst-performing stocks in the S.& P. 500. Nvidia's slump of nearly 11 percent, to $18.26, was the biggest in the index. The company's rating was cut to hold from buy at Needham & Company, which cited slower growth in its core graphics processing business and increased competition in the tablet computer and smartphone markets, among other things.
CA's 8.6 percent slip to $22.90 was the second-biggest retreat in the S.& P. 500. The software company posted fourth-quarter sales and profit that missed the average of analysts' estimates.
Consumer staple and health care companies were the best performing groups Friday.
''The rotation internally has been away from risk and toward more stability,'' said Michael Vogelzang, chief investment officer at Boston Advisors. ''You're starting to see staples and health care outperformance -- groups that have underperformed for a significant period of time.''
Interest rates were lower. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 14/32, to 103 24/32, and the yield fell to 3.17 percent, from 3.22 percent late Thursday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (86%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (77%); TABLET COMPUTERS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); COST OF LIVING (75%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); EURO ZONE (70%); FOOD PRICES (65%); MONETARY UNIONS (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: CA INC (91%); NVIDIA CORP (84%); NEEDHAM & CO INC (60%); ING GROEP NV (58%); JANUS CAPITAL GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: CA (NASDAQ) (91%); NVDA (NASDAQ) (84%); INGA (BIT) (58%); INGA (AMS) (58%); ING (NYSE) (58%); JNS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (84%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011



444 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: Encouraging Numbers, at First Glance

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
MINNEAPOLIS -- When it comes to economic recovery, Minnesota is about as good as it gets.
During the recession, the state's unemployment rate never reached the double-digit peak suffered by the nation as a whole. Since the recovery began, it is among a handful of states whose rate has fallen at a faster clip than most other states. Minnesota's rate is now 6.6 percent, well below the 9 percent across the country.
Farmers in the state's large agricultural sector have benefited from surges in the prices for their corn and soybeans. Among big companies with headquarters in the state, 3M and General Mills have recently reported strong earnings growth, and Target and United Healthcare are hiring.
Dig a little, though, and the foundation looks wobblier. Economists point out that some of the drop in state unemployment merely reflects people giving up on the job search or retiring early, as well as an aging work force with fewer young people hunting for jobs. 
''It really seems slow here,'' said David Vang, an economist at the Opus College of Business at the University of St. Thomas. ''So if we're rapid, other places must be terrible.''
Many people look to Minnesota as a state whose demographics, varied industries, educated citizenry and public policy could together provide a bit of a shield against hard times. But a closer inspection shows a disconnect between the more encouraging economic data of late and the harsher reality that people so often describe, here and across the country.
According to government data, which show that state unemployment peaked at 8.5 percent in the downturn, employers slashed roughly 154,000 jobs but have added back fewer than 27,000 -- or only about 18 percent of those lost.
Big local employers including Medtronic, a medical device maker, and Hutchinson Technology, which makes components for disk drives, have announced layoffs in recent weeks. Small to medium-size companies say they are nervous about government policy and are reluctant to hire.
A depressed real estate market remains a drag on the local economy -- as it does in many other places. In March, foreclosed homes made up more than 40 percent of sales in the Twin Cities. Construction workers have been idle for years, with little hope of imminent work. And the state government must resolve a $5 billion budget shortfall that some fear will lead to job cuts.
Over all, the nation continues to face a battery of economic challenges. Last week's employment data showed a welcome bit of job creation for several months' running, but other recent reports have been more lackluster. Unemployment insurance claims have been running at a higher level, and the main association of small businesses said it expected hiring to be sluggish.
Minnesota has some ability to outpace the rest of the country, with its tilt toward medical and food manufacturing and agricultural strength.
''In some ways it looks like it's doing a little bit better,'' said Terry J. Fitzgerald, senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. ''But not a lot better.''
Still, part of the reason Minnesota's headline unemployment rate may have shown more rapid improvement is that it has fewer young people competing for jobs. According to Thomas Stinson, the state economist and a professor at the University of Minnesota, the proportion of workers in the 20-to-40 age group has slid from nearly half in the 1980s to about 38 percent now.
The people in the 40-to-60 age group, Mr. Stinson said, ''are the people whose 401(k)'s got hit so hard and whose housing values have gotten hit so hard. So part of the reason for the slow recovery is that people are not spending, but are rebuilding their 401(k)'s. And we haven't seen the release of pent-up demand that we would have normally seen'' after a recession.
The state also faces many of the same trends that hamper job growth elsewhere. To the extent they are hiring, companies like 3M and General Mills are adding more people abroad than domestically. Connie Pautz, a spokeswoman for Hutchinson Technologies, which will cut about 600 people -- or nearly half its Minnesota staff -- over the next 12 months, said the company had automated much of its operations. ''So we don't need as many people,'' she said.
Tube Bending Specialists, a family-owned firm that cuts and bends aluminum and steel tubing in Coon Rapids, a suburb of Minneapolis, illustrates the problem on a smaller scale. George W. Mundis Jr., the chief executive, said the company laid off eight people, or half its staff, in 2008 as annual sales plunged to $570,000 from $1.6 million.
With mechanical saws rumbling on the factory floor next door, Mr. Mundis, 70, and his wife Mary, 67, sat in his office and lamented the $200,000 in retirement savings they had used to avert the company's bankruptcy. Even though sales have recovered somewhat, the Mundises have been cautious, adding only three people in a year.
If manufacturing companies are hesitant, at least they have added jobs -- about 7,840 in Minnesota over the past year. Across the country, manufacturing has steadily added jobs during the recovery -- about 250,000. Construction, on the other hand, has lost close to 2,200 in Minnesota, consistent with weakness across the nation.
New home permits issued in the Twin Cities in April were down about a third from a year earlier, according to Keystone Report, a construction data firm. That has left people like Bill Evertz, a 51-year-old former house framer who keeps his white hair mashed under a baseball cap, scrambling for odd jobs. Mr. Evertz lost his job of 15 years in 2007 and then worked for a home remodeling company north of Minneapolis until last fall.
To cut costs, he moved in with his sister. At the gym, he talks with other former construction workers who hope that spring brings fresh hiring. Right now, he said, he is left to ''praying for hail or rain storms, because then the insurance companies hire people to fix up houses.''
Public sector workers are struggling as well. Over the past year, Minnesota lost 1,900 government jobs. Steven Lutmer, who spent 20 years as a city building inspector in Ramsey, was let go in January of last year.
Mr. Lutmer, 51, who once earned $62,000 a year and benefits, is collecting $498 a week in unemployment. At a job fair last week, where more than 250 people jammed a windowless hotel ballroom, he approached a recruiter from Toys ''R'' Us to ask about his application for a part-time job stocking shelves that would pay less than $8 an hour.
''I'll take part time, full time, anything,'' shrugged Mr. Lutmer.
The bright spot in Minnesota's economy has clearly been agriculture. David Frederickson, the state's commissioner of agriculture, attributed it to the price of corn, which is close to $6.70 a bushel, and the price of soybeans, at about $12.80 a bushel, not far from recent peaks.
The hefty prices are generating some increased activity for fertilizer distributors and agricultural equipment makers, he said. But the ripple effect will be limited, he added, because many farmers will use their revenue to pay down debt.
There are signs of hope, however. Steve Hine, an economist for the Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development, noted that the ratio of jobseekers to online listings is among the lowest in the nation. And at the University of Minnesota, Paul Timmins, director of career services for the college of liberal arts, said more employers showed up at a spring job fair for graduating seniors this year than last.
''Definitely more students are getting jobs,'' said Mr. Timmins.
''My sense is it's a slow and steady march ahead,'' he said, adding wryly: ''Sorry you had to come all the way to Minnesota just to learn that we are like the rest of the country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Officially, unemployment is falling, but the lines are no less tiring for applicants like Tony Harrington, at a job fair near Minneapolis. (B1)
The WorkForce Center in Blaine, Minn., tries to help the unemployed find work. Many, however, have stopped searching.
 Agriculture is one bright spot in Minnesota's economy. Farmers like Kristin Weeks Duncanson, at an ethanol plant in Janesville, Minn., benefited as prices for corn and soybeans soared. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CRAIG LASSIG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) CHARTS: Job Losses in Minnesota: Although Minnesota's unemployment rate has improved in the last two years, more than 100,000 jobs have been lost in the state since 2008. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); AGRICULTURE (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); OLDER WORKERS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); FORECLOSURE (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); EARLY RETIREMENT (68%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (62%); CONSTRUCTION (61%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (50%); MEDICAL DEVICES (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MILLS INC (56%); UNIVERSITY OF ST THOMAS (55%); HUTCHINSON TECHNOLOGY INC (53%); MEDTRONIC INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: GIS (NYSE) (56%); HTCH (NASDAQ) (53%); MDT (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (56%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (56%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (56%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (53%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (53%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (93%) MINNESOTA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011



445 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: Mothers in the Work Force

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Stephanie Coontz (''When We Hated Mom,'' Op-Ed, May 8) focuses on enabling mothers to choose between homemaking and paid work without acknowledging the long-term economic costs of women withdrawing from the labor force for themselves and their families. 
Despite the seeming advantages of having a full-time parent at home in the short run, the risks of divorce or future spousal unemployment are strong enough that any woman who chooses to be a stay-at-home mother risks her family's future well-being.
Not to mention her own loss of Social Security and pension income, career growth in income and responsibility if she had remained employed, and the diverse social networks that help both children and parents with practical and emotional assistance.
Though it's true that homemakers are better off today than in the past, that doesn't mean it's necessarily good for women or families to return to the 1950s pattern of female homemakers and male breadwinners.
JENNIFER GLASS Iowa City, May 10, 2011
The writer is a professor of gender, women's and sexuality studies at the University of Iowa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (90%); FAMILY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WOMEN (77%); CHILDREN (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (74%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011



446 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Promoting Peace, Nobel Laureates Square Off, Politely

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
NEWARK -- Of the many rare scenes provided here on Friday by renowned advocates of enlightenment and nonviolence, the rarest may have been a pair of Nobel Peace Prize winners getting about as close as such people ever get to actual confrontation.
On a stage during the opening session of the Newark Peace Education Summit, the Dalai Lama and Jody Williams, a world-famous anti-land-mine activist, disagreed -- sometimes obliquely, always politely -- about the importance of inner tranquillity, the role of anger and the moral character of the United States. (More on that later.) 
The three-day conclave mixes celebrities, community organizers and people who grapple with a range of problems, from the personal to the global. On Friday, another Nobel laureate, Shirin Ebadi, spoke on the rule of law and the rights of women in Iran, and the author Deepak Chopra spoke about the neuroscience of happiness. The hip-hop impresario Russell Simmons talked about recruiting young men for neighborhood safety patrols, and Rabbi Michael Lerner, editor of Tikkun magazine, led the audience in singing ''Down by the Riverside.''
Organizers said the contrast evoked by holding such an idealistic event inside the elegant New Jersey Performing Arts Center, while the surrounding city is better known for poverty and crime than for peace, was not lost on them.
''Newark is the perfect place for the event because of its challenging history with violence,'' said Drew A. Katz, an advertising executive who is one of the chief sponsors.
Mr. Katz said that two years ago he met Robert A. F. Thurman, a professor of Indo-Tibetan studies at Columbia University and a practitioner of Tibetan Buddhism. Professor Thurman, who is close to the Dalai Lama, wanted to organize a peace conference in New York City. Mr. Katz said he suggested going to Newark, where expenses were lower, he knew other philanthropists and the mayor, Cory A. Booker, was a friend of his.
Mr. Booker, who delivered the welcoming address, later said, ''Peace will not descend on the city and state, and our problems disappear'' because of the conference. But he said he hoped it would inspire people. Several speakers offered their messages with generous doses of liberal politics and Eastern philosophy, for an audience that could afford tickets that started at more than $100, but also included local activists and students, who were admitted at no cost.
For most of those listening, the main draw was obvious.
''I like all the speakers and the workshops, but the opportunity to hear the Dalai Lama was the big thing for me,'' said Dana Longstreet, 52, who is working on a master's degree in social work at Rutgers University.
Speakers this weekend will include Goldie Hawn, Martin Luther King III and the economist Jeffrey Sachs.
In the main panel on Friday morning, the Dalai Lama, wearing a deep red robe that hung to his ankles, and others said that people must attain inner peace in order to learn, and promote peace in the world. ''Too much emotion, attachment, anger or fear, that kind of mental state, you can't investigate objectively,'' he said.
That did not sit well with Ms. Williams, an American, who is, as the Dalai Lama put it, ''quite blunt.''
''I thought it was strange to be asked to be on this panel on inner peace, because I don't have much,'' she said. ''It's anger at injustice which fires many of us.''
She went on to criticize aspects of American policy that favor corporations and the wealthy, and, without naming a particular conflict, said there was no such thing as a ''just war.''
The Dalai Lama then came to the defense of the United States, the country that helped him escape Tibet in 1959, after the Chinese Communists took over. ''America, of course, a lot of drawbacks there, but I always feel, champion of democracy,'' he said. ''Now we get argument.''
Both panelists drew laughter and applause, but the biggest laugh of the day came in the afternoon, when the Dalai Lama was asked to open a discussion on peace in the family.
As a celibate monk, he said, ''I have no experience.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Dalai Lama greeted the audience at a panel discussion titled ''Peace Within'' at the Newark Peace Education Summit on Friday. The discussion, below, included the anti-landmine activist Jody Williams, seated fourth from right.
 Mayor Cory A. Booker delivered the opening address. He later said that ''peace will not descend on the city and state'' because of the event. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM WHITE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOBEL PRIZES (92%); AWARDS & PRIZES (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); CELEBRITIES (78%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (73%); WRITERS (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (72%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); LIBERALISM (71%); PHILOSOPHY (68%); WOMEN (68%); HIP HOP CULTURE (67%); RAP MUSIC (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%); PHILANTHROPY (61%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (53%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (89%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); DEEPAK CHOPRA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%); TIBET (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011



447 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
THOUSANDS FLEE LIBYA
TO TAKE REFUGE IN ITALY
More than 9,000 Libyan refugees have left for Italy since the country's unrest began, most of them sub-Saharan Africans and South Asians who had been working there, including more than 2,000 in the last week. Italian officials and human rights workers said the increase since was a sign that the government of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi was turning a blind eye to their departure as a form of protest against the NATO bombing raids. Page A4 
DOUBTING TALIBAN'S CLAIM
Senior police officials in Pakistan said a suicide attack that killed more than 80 cadets from a government paramilitary force was probably a retaliation for an army offensive in tribal areas, and not for the death of Osama bin Laden, as the Pakistani Taliban had claimed. Page A7
National
ECONOMY'S RECENT WOES
WORSEN MEDICARE FINANCES
The financial outlook for Medicare deteriorated in the last year because of the sluggish economy, and the program's hospital insurance trust fund will be exhausted in 2024, five years earlier than projected last year, the government said. The estimates, in the annual report by the Medicare trustees, were immediately swept up into the already inflamed political battle over federal spending, debt and the future of entitlement programs. Page A12
NEW STEM CELL DISAPPOINTS
In a setback to efforts to harness a promising new type of stem cell to treat diseases, researchers reported that tissues made from induced pluripotent stem cells, which can be made from skin cells and which appear to have the characteristics of embryonic stem cells, might be rejected by a patient's immune system -- even if the tissues were derived from that same patient. Page A14
New York
NOBEL PEACE PRIZE WINNERS
SQUARE OFF, WITH SMILES
Organizers said the contrast between an idealistic event like a Peace Education Summit, held at the elegant New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark, and a surrounding city better known for poverty and crime than for peace was not lost on them. Inside, at the event, the Dalai Lama and Jody Williams, an anti-land-mine activist, disagreed -- sometimes obliquely, always politely -- about the importance of inner tranquillity, the role of anger and the moral character of the United States. Page A15
Obituaries
BERNARD GREENHOUSE, 95
An internationally acclaimed cellist, Bernard Greenhouse was a founding member, in 1955, of the Beaux Arts Trio, a musically refined ensemble that became a fixture of concert stages throughout the world. His work leaned toward subdued, thoughtful interpretations, which was unlike the bravura style of many marquee cellists. Page B8
Arts
A ROLE-PLAYING GAME
THAT'S GOOD ENOUGH
The new Darkspore game from Electronic Arts is an online action-role-playing game that, while hardly groundbreaking, is at least reliably diverting, writes Seth Schiesel. Developed by Will Wright, the famous designer behind games like SimCity and The Sims, the game offers 100 different hero characters you can unlock, each with its own special abilities. Page C1
Op-ed
GAIL COLLINS PAGE A19
CHARLES M. BLOW PAGE A19

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Preparations began in Port-au-Prince for Saturday's inauguration ceremony of Haiti's President-elect Michel Joseph Martelly. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SWOAN PARKER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (90%); REFUGEES (90%); BIOETHICS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (85%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); TALIBAN (75%); DEATHS (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); LANDMINES (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); ANNUAL REPORTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (72%); BOMBINGS (70%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (67%); NOBEL PRIZES (67%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (66%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (64%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (61%); POLICE FORCES (57%)

COMPANY: ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

TICKER: EA (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (75%); MICHEL MARTELLY (59%); DALAI LAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); ITALY (93%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); HAITI (92%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011



448 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: Wealthy Hesitate to Take a Break on Estate Taxes

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
PRESIDENT OBAMA and the Republican Congress gave the wealthiest Americans an enormous gift at the end of 2010. They increased the exemption on a series of estate-related taxes and lowered the tax rate on any amount over those limits. The catch is it lasts only two years.
But five months into the tax break, the people able to fully exploit it are more tentative than wealth advisers had expected. That could be a problem because this exemption, which will most likely be used to give money to children and grandchildren, is done through complicated structures that take up to a year to set up. (The exception, of course, is if someone simply dies. Then, the new estate tax exemptions of $5 million per person and a rate of 35 percent above that kick in.)
So why are the richest Americans hesitating to take advantage of this tax break? It comes down to two fears that bedevil everyone: they don't want to put too much aside now in case they need it later, and they don't want to take away their children's incentive to work. 
''Everyone is trying to capitalize on this two-year window because there is this 'use it or lose it' mentality and a need to plan wisely,'' said Coventry Edwards-Pitt, senior wealth adviser at Ballentine Partners. ''But the ideal answer from a tax mitigation standpoint is probably different from what most families can handle.''
While the changes to the estate tax might not produce a revenue windfall for the United States Treasury from people opting to pay the 35 percent gift tax, they could lead to a conversation that families at all levels of wealth rarely have: how do they want their lives, and by extension their wealth, to influence their children?
MONEY-MAKING OPPORTUNITIES By the end of 2010, many very wealthy couples had already given as much as $2 million in tax-free gifts, the previous limit. But the estimates of a gift of another $8 million, to hit the new $10 million limit, could be a windfall to heirs.
Lisa Featherngill, director of wealth planning at Wells Fargo Family Wealth, said an $8 million gift made to a ''grantor dynasty trust'' -- a structure that allows the people making the gift to pay taxes on the capital gains during their lifetime -- could grow to as much as $140 million over 40 years.
This potential growth is one of the reasons advisers say that few people are looking to exceed the exemption level. The other is that some feel the economy could weaken again and they might need their money.
Milo Zidek, who made his money in the reinsurance business, said he and his wife, both 76 and living in south Florida, would use the additional $8 million gift tax exemption to transfer money to their children and grandchildren.
''I doubt we'll do more than that,'' he said. ''We've got to live. And you don't want to overwhelm them.''
To that end, Mr. Zidek said, they would put the money in trust ''because we don't want them to become wild and crazy guys.'' That, he said, was ''improbable but nonetheless we want to keep their noses to the grindstone.''
DETERMINING STRATEGY Mr. Zidek's concern is typical of what this window has prompted: will the rush to take advantage of a tax break turn heirs into trust-fund brats?
Advisers are counseling clients to spend significant time determining their intentions before they even think about the amount of the gift. ''As a C.P.A., I can run through the numbers, but that doesn't take into account the angst over the giving,'' Ms. Featherngill said.
Once they have decided the family philosophy for their money, there is no shortage of ways to give far more than the $10 million a couple is now allowed to provide tax-free. Any private banker will reel off a list of obscurely named financial vehicles that will multiply the value of the gift.
Samuel V. Petrucci, director at Credit Suisse Private Bank, said he was working with an investment banker worth $75 million who was hesitant to put securities or cash into a trust for his children. Instead, he and his wife have decided to put a vacation home worth about $9 million into a trust that allows them to use the home until it passes on to their children.
''This client 100 percent understands why they should give $10 million,'' Mr. Petrucci said. ''To go from $75 million to $65 million doesn't work for him. But in his mind, he is willing to part with the vacation home that he wants to keep in the family for a very long time.''
The mental dodge here is not that unusual, the advisers said. Even someone with more than enough money may have trouble parting with it. Still, the banker has to hope that his children do not sell the home in his golden years -- and that any squabbling over the property when he is gone does not destroy his family.
INCENTIVES TO WORK So how do parents keep this tax break from creating a disincentive for children to do anything with their lives?
Steven D. Hayworth, chief executive of Gibraltar Private Bank and Trust, said the wealthy needed to be aware of the potential size of the minimum payments from the trusts they set up.
Consider a trust that grew to $30 million and then paid out a relatively low 3 percent distribution each year. ''That's $75,000 a month hitting their bank account,'' Mr. Hayworth said. ''You have the tax motivation to do this. But it's every bit as important to think, 'What does success look like for my family?' ''
This fear of giving too much is motivating a California entrepreneur who owns several real estate-related companies. He asked not to be named because his family did not know his plans. At 66, he has five children from two marriages and a net worth around $80 million. He said he intended to use his additional gift tax exemption, but was struggling with how to build incentives into the trusts.
''I'm more worried about ruining my kids and grandkids,'' he said. ''What I'm planning on doing is trying to keep incentivizing the kids to do well. I want them to believe that from the time they get out of college until they're 45, they have to swim in the big business ocean, and I want to reward them with some sort of matching program.''
But how can this be done effectively? Incentives are put into trusts all the time, but they do not always have the desired effect. An income-matching incentive could persuade a child who wants to be a teacher to become an investment banker instead.
Some wary parents are creating trusts that name spouses as beneficiaries along with their children and also include provisions to redirect money to stricter trusts or charities if the amount grows too large or their children are not able to handle the money.
Anita Sarafa, a wealth adviser for J. P. Morgan Private Bank in Chicago, said she was working with a young couple to set up two trusts like that. ''The real goal is not to give money to your spouse, but to put your spouse in there as a safety valve,'' she said. ''People with smaller estates may want to do that if they're worried about running out of money.''
Of course, many people will say that having too much money is a wonderful problem to have. But the real issue is what your legacy does to your children -- something every parent is thinking about.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Milo Zidek, of Florida, said he and his wife would put money in trust for their children and grandchildren, rather than make tax-free gifts, ''because we don't want them to become wild and crazy guys.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESTATE TAX (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX RELIEF (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ESTATE PLANNING (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); GIFT TAX (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FAMILY (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); TAX PLANNING (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); PERSONAL TRUSTS (69%); INSURANCE (64%); REINSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (63%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011



449 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: Recent Inflation History; 
Paul Krugman

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: What we're seeing isn't exceptional.

 BODY:
During the Bush years, I used to get triumphant letters from conservatives saying things like, "You say Bush's policies are bad, but the economy added 110,000 jobs last month" -- as if that was a big number; they had no idea what good job creation looks like.
Now I get a lot of mail from people saying, "You say inflation is not a problem -- but consumer prices rose 3.1 percent over the past year."
Again, it's useful to have some perspective. 
So, here's consumer price inflation since 1985 -- that is, after the Volcker disinflation, and after morning in America and all that:
Do you remember a lot of hysteria about runaway inflation in, say, September 2005, when prices were 4.7 percent higher than they had been a year earlier? I don't; I remember things like this:
Oh, and about commodity prices: rises on the order of what we've seen lately aren't at all unusual, even during periods now considered to have been characterized by low and stable inflation. Here's the IMF commodity price index:
Just not something to get frantic about.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); PRICE INCREASES (70%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



450 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 1589 words

HEADLINE: Racing's Drug Problem: More Complicated Than It Looks; 
The Rail

BYLINE: STEVE ZORN


HIGHLIGHT: As always at Triple Crown time, the thoughts of some in the racing world turn to drugs.

 BODY:
Steve Zorn is racing manager of Castle Village Farm thoroughbred partnerships, and a director of the New York Thoroughbred Horsemen's Association and the Backstretch Employees Service Team. He writes the Business of Racing blog."
As always at Triple Crown time, the thoughts of some in the racing world turn to drugs. Over the past several months, a number of important horse racing groups have joined in a call for the elimination of all race-day medications, notably the diuretic Lasix. And last week, Rep. Ed Whitfield of Kentucky and Sen. Tom Udall of New Mexico introduced federal legislation, already supported by three prominent thoroughbred owners, that would impose a draconian "three strikes and you're out" penalty system for violations of the race-day drug ban. The momentum, it seems, is building for a historic reversal of recent decades' trend toward allowing more and more drug use.
In principle, that's a good thing, for at least two reasons. First, the health of the racing industry depends on betting, and bettors are, understandably, not eager to pour their money into a game that they suspect is fixed. Parimutuel handle, the gross amount bet at race tracks, OTBs, casinos and online, has dropped by nearly a quarter in the past three years. While most of this decline is probably attributable to other causes -- the recession, the wealth of other gambling options, the high takeout, or the share of bets retained by the house -- it certainly doesn't help that many horseplayers think betting on the races is a mug's game.
Second, it's apparent that the increasing use of drugs in racing and training has done nothing to improve the health, longevity or performance of racehorses. As owners Arthur Hancock, George Strawbridge and Roy and Gretchen Jackson point out in their letter supporting the Whitfield-Udall bill, American racehorses are significantly less durable today, despite the constant application of drugs, than they were half a century ago. The average thoroughbred today has a "career" of just 13 starts, compared with 45 in 1950, and the average horse races just six times a year, down from 11-plus 50 years ago. And, unlike athletes in virtually every other sport, thoroughbreds aren't getting faster. This year's Kentucky Derby field came into the race with the slowest prep races in memory, and the record for the Derby, 1 minute 59 2/5 seconds, was set by Secretariat nearly 40 years ago, with only two horses since then -- Spend a Buck in 1985 and Monarchos in 2001 -- even finishing in less than 2:01.
So, while we can't say that drug use has caused the decline in racing, it's clear that increased medication sure doesn't help. But what to do? It's not as simple as just saying "no drugs on race day." And the thoroughbred community itself, galvanized by the death of the filly Eight Belles at the 2008 Derby, has undertaken a major effort, as yet not fully realized, to reduce, if not eliminate, drug use.
On the plus side, racing has effectively banned the use of anabolic steroids and blood-doping agents like EPO. Just a few years ago, both these classes of drugs were routinely used, enhancing performance and leading to long-term ill effects on the horses. Today, they're pretty much out of racing. And "milkshakes," to prevent the buildup of acid in a race, have been eliminated, thanks to carbon-dioxide-level testing.
And a variety of racing organizations are moving toward establishing minimum threshold levels for drug testing, to eliminate the absurdity of a test positive when a horse shows one part in a trillion of an illegal drug, far below the level that could have any possible effect on performance. Some states still have a zero-tolerance policy, and, as the testing technology gets steadily better, able to find ever-more-tiny concentrations of drugs in blood samples, more and more horses will test positive, just from environmental contamination. In most other sports, and, for that matter, in police testing of suspected drunk drivers, it's only a test above some threshold level that results in a disqualification or conviction. The same should be true in racing.
But racing has fallen far short in two other areas: the kinds of drugs that are still allowed, and the far-too-lenient penalties imposed on those who violate the rules. 
All North American racing jurisdictions allow the use of Lasix on race day, and many allow the use of other so-called "adjunct" anti-bleeding drugs as well. It's true that many horses show signs of pulmonary bleeding from the extreme exertion of running as fast as they can, and studies show that Lasix, a diuretic that reduces blood pressure by lowering fluid levels in the horse, can alleviate that kind of bleeding. 
But Lasix also causes a horse to lose 20-30 pounds immediately before a race, an obvious performance advantage, and that weight loss, in turn, requires more recovery time between races, perhaps accounting for some of the reduction in the number of races per year that horses run. Also, Lasix is reputed to be effective in masking the presence of some other drugs in postrace testing. Horses in most of the rest of the world run without Lasix on race day, as North American horses used to do, when they were running faster. Returning to a no-Lasix policy would, admittedly, cause havoc in the short run, since so many horses have become accustomed to it, but a phase-in of the ban, applying perhaps only to foals born this year (who would be 3-year-olds in 2014) and later, might be a manageable solution.
And the use of pain-killing anti-inflammatory drugs is still permitted everywhere in the United States for horses in training, and generally up to 24 hours before a race, even though there's medical evidence that the effect of the drugs can last for as much as 36 hours. Using painkillers is a tricky business. A horse that's not feeling pain may keep on trying to the point where it has a catastrophic breakdown. Humans, in theory, at least can make a choice as to whether to go to work while using painkillers. Horses don't have that choice; we make it for them. While reductions in race-day threshold levels for painkillers, which are well under way, would help, there's still the issue of whether painkillers should even be permitted for horses in training, as a significant number of breakdowns occur, not in a race, but on the training track in the morning. Perhaps, if a horse is sick, it should just stay in bed, or at least in its barn.
Finally, there's the question of penalties. The Whitfield-Udall bill calls for a six-month suspension for a first drug offense, a year for the second and a permanent ban for the third, for "anyone who knowingly dopes a horse or races a horse under the influence of performance-enhancing drugs." Presumably that's the trainer, but might include owners as well, if they know of the drug use. In addition, any horse found to have raced under the influence of drugs would be suspended from racing for six months in the first instance, a year in the second, and two years in the third, effectively ending the horse's racing career.
The Whitfield-Udall bill is woefully incomplete; it doesn't provide for threshold testing levels, and the penalties on horses seem misguided, since it wasn't the horse that administered the drugs. But the bill is an understandable reaction to racing's history of giving only a slap on the wrist to trainers with drug violations. Typically, a trainer will get a one- or two-week suspension for the first drug positive, with penalties increasing slightly if there are a lot of violations. Rarely, a trainer will get as much as 90 days. But even then, he merely turns his horses over to an assistant; the horses remain in the trainer's barn and life goes on as usual.
And it takes a near-miracle for a trainer to be permanently barred. Rick Dutrow, trainer of the 2008 Derby winner Big Brown (who raced on then-permitted steroids before his inexplicable non-performance in that year's Belmont Stakes) has accumulated more than 60 violations in his career. Yet it was only earlier this year that the Kentucky Racing Commission revoked his license, and he continues to train while that decision is on appeal and while he awaits a hearing in New York, the result of which will also almost certainly be appealed.
While the three strikes and you're out policy of the Whitfield bill may be too harsh -- although it does require that a trainer "knowingly" run a horse on drugs -- the present system is far too lenient. Tougher penalties for drug positives that exceed reasonable threshold levels and a requirement that a suspended trainer disperse his horses, rather than keeping them in the barn under an assistant, would go a long way in cutting down on intentional drug use and making trainers more vigilant in avoiding "accidental" positives.
Racing's had three years to clean up its act since Eight Belles died at Churchill Downs. While the industry has made a lot of progress, it has not gone far enough soon enough. The Whitfield-Udall bill is a natural expression of racing fans' and bettors' frustration. Perhaps the horsemen's associations that oppose the bill should devote less time to lobbying and more to putting in place an anti-drug policy that is scientifically based, tough and consistent. That's the kind of policy that will protect both the bettors and the horses.

        
Drugs in Racing: Deja Vu All Over Again
        
Race-Day Drugs: Clearing the Air
        
Legislation Targets Drug Use in Horse Racing
        
Queen's Horse Failed a Drug Test
        
The Doc's Legacy at the Derby

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (91%); HORSES (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (74%); TRENDS (73%) drugs; Lasix; Strawbridge, George Jr; Udall, Tom; Horse Racing

PERSON: TOM UDALL (89%); ED WHITFIELD (55%) Strawbridge, George Jr; Udall, Tom

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



451 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: The Weekend Word: Stepping Down; 
The Caucus

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: With peace talks stalled, the chief envoy to Israelis and Palestinians announced he would resign.

 BODY:
Today's Times
 As frustrations grow over the impasse in peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians, George J. Mitchell Jr., the chief United States envoy to the two sides, announced his resignation Friday. His resignation is effective May 20, an awkward moment considering it is the same day President Obama plans to meet with Israel's prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, The Times's Steven Lee Myers reports. A government report painted a bleak picture of Medicare's future on Friday, throwing fuel on the fire of the political debate over federal spending and entitlement programs, The Times's Robert Pear reports. According to the Medicare trustees, the program's hospital insurance trust fund will run dry in 2024, five years sooner than last year's projections, prompting Republicans to call for immediate action to protect its beneficiaries. The Senate Ethics Committee released a harsh report Thursday citing ample evidence of impropriety on the part of former Senator John Ensign, who the committee said could have been forced out of his seat had he not resigned first. But the Justice Department has stayed out of the matter, taking no action against the Nevada Republican, who admitted to having an affair with an aide's wife and was under investigation for a substantial "gift" made to the aide's family. The Times's Eric Lipton and Eric Lichtblau report that the committee's findings further substantiate criticisms of the agency for being too cautious about taking on public officials. Georgia became the latest state to take immigration law enforcement into its own hands on Friday. Authorizing one of the nation's toughest immigration laws, Gov. Nathan Deal signed a bill allowing law enforcement officers to request immigration documentation from criminal suspects and jail those who do not comply in preparation for deportation, as well as enforcing stricter hiring rules for businesses. The Times's Robbie Brown reports that taking its cue from the backlash to similar laws in Arizona and Utah, Georgia's bill is designed to withstand legal challenges. 
Weekly Addresses
 Skyrocketing gas prices are on the president's mind this week. Mr. Obama laid out his strategy to ease Americans' pain at the pump in his weekly address: create a commission to prevent price-gouging, increase American oil production and end taxpayer subsidies for the industry. "In the last few months, the biggest oil companies made about $4 billion in profits each week," he said. "And yet, they get $4 billion in taxpayer subsidies each year." The bill to eliminate these subsidies is up for a vote in Congress next week. A proposal from the chairman of the House Budget Committee, Paul Ryan, got a boost in this week's Republican address, which lamented the rising gas prices and other economic problems plaguing Americans. Representative Martha Roby of Alabama said all options should be on the table when it comes to reducing the deficit, except tax increases. "The threat of tax hikes - along with the torrent of rules and regulations coming out of Washington - has employers sitting on their hands at the worst possible time," she said. 
Around the Web Representative Ron Paul of Texas kicked off his presidential campaign by saying he would have opposed the 1964 Civil Rights Act, The Hill reports. Mr. Paul, who announced his candidacy Friday, said on MSNBC that he based his opposition to the landmark legislation on its violation of property rights, "not because they got rid of the Jim Crow laws." 
Washington Happenings
 Tour the world without leaving Washington. On Saturday, more than 30 embassies, including those of Brazil, Egypt and Thailand, will be open to the public for a cultural celebration that includes food, art, music and dancing. Janet Napolitano, the homeland security secretary, will speak at the National Fraternal Order of Police's 30th Annual National Peace Officers Memorial Service at the Capitol on Sunday.

        
The Early Word: Accused
        
The Early Word: The Next Step
        
The Early Word: Spotlight
        
The Weekend Word: Aftermath
        
The Early Word: Backtracking

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (88%); IMMIGRATION (86%); GASOLINE PRICES (85%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (84%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); MEDICARE (76%); BUDGETS (75%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (74%); ETHICS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (66%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); DEPORTATION (64%) The Early Word; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (73%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); JOHN ENSIGN (55%); NATHAN DEAL (55%); MARTHA ROBY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011



452 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: In Flooded Tunica, the Casinos Are Idle but Concerns Are Nonstop

BYLINE: CATRIN EINHORN


HIGHLIGHT: Video tales from Tunica, Miss., whose casino-dependent economy has ground to a halt because of the Mississippi flooding.

 BODY:
TUNICA, Miss. - Like countless communities up and down the Mississippi River, life these days in this town of 1100, and its surrounding countryside, depends on which side of the levee you're on. The town center, shielded from the river, looks nothing more than a bit bedraggled, while on the other side, flood waters have invaded homes, displaced hundreds and submerged crop fields.
Here, though, something else lies on the wrong side of the levee: a cluster of nine casinos that serve as the county's economic engine. They have been closed for about two weeks now, keeping 11,000 people from the surrounding area out of work.
Qwondra Smith, 32, who supervises table games at the Gold Strike Casino and Resort, is one of the lucky ones. Though her last day of work was May 1, she continues to receive a paycheck from her employer, and her biggest complaint is boredom. But her cousin, who works at another casino, was told to file for unemployment and has yet to receive any compensation. Ms. Smith said she can't help worrying about what the future holds.
Like today, today is payday. Normally when I go grocery shopping, I spend at least $200 or $300. Today I only spent $100. Cause, you know, I know I'm going to need money to go back and forth if I have to look for another job or something, worst-case scenario. I'm just being cautious. Like my grandmama says - budgeting my money.
This week, the river reached its crest in Tunica, which is about 35 miles south of Memphis, and water levels around the casinos are already dropping. While nearby roads, parking lots and even the first floor of some hotels have flooded, the gaming rooms themselves have remained dry. Now everyone, especially Mayor Chuck Cariker, wonders how quickly the casinos can reopen and start the money flowing again. Roughly 80 to 85 percent of the town's revenue comes from gaming, he says - and that's just the beginning.
Economic impact is tremendous because the gaming revenue, gaming taxes will be zero. We'll get a percentage of that, but whatever percentage of zero is zero. So we're looking at zero. The trickle-down effect has been enormous as well. The food-beverage distributors aren't bringing products in. There are 11,000 casino workers that are not coming to work, not coming by the little convenience stores, not buying gas, not going to the Wendy's, not going to the outlet stores. 
Mayor Cariker predicted that the least-damaged casinos would open by Memorial Day weekend. And Tunica has a substantial rainy-day fund, he said, that will prevent the town from having to make substantial cuts. (One money-saver that officials implemented when the casinos closed was to eliminate the town's weekend cleanup.) In the meantime, officials are trying to prevent as much collateral damage as possible; when organizers of a big horse show scheduled for June threatened to pull out because of the flooding, officials did what they could to convince them to stay.
Beneath the economic fallout, there is the human toll for families from an area outside town and across the levee called the Cutoff, whose houses have been claimed by the river. As in other places, the newly homeless are sheltering where they can; a measure of relief came this week with the declaration of Tunica County as a federal disaster area.
Kate Thomas, 49, does not live in the Cutoff but misses it already.
On a little bit selfish side, I throw darts and sing karaoke every weekend at this little bar called the Cedar Bar that's underwater right now, so I'll miss that. But most of all I miss my friends and that camaraderie that we had.
For now, it seems, all there is to do here is wait for the river to return the land on its side of the levee; then people here can take a good look at what's left. Residents of the Cutoff will face questions on whether to rebuild. Farmers are likely to plant more soy this year because it can go in the ground later than rice or cotton. And the casinos will open just as soon as they can, whirring slot machines, roulette wheels and revenue.

        
Video of Funnel Clouds in Mississippi
        
Video Updates on Flood Damage in the Mexican State of Oaxaca
        
Visiting Pakistan's Cut-Off Villages
        
Attempts to Tame Indus River Contributed to Disaster in Pakistan, Expert Says
        
Pakistan Flood Disaster Relief: How to Help

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RIVERS (92%); CASINOS (90%); GAMING (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FLOODS & FLOODING (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); CONVENIENCE STORES (71%); DISPLACED PERSONS (71%); COUNTIES (70%); RETAILERS (66%); FAST FOOD (64%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (50%) Floods; Mississippi; Mississippi River flooding; Mississippi River; News; u.s.

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (97%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Mississippi; Mississippi River

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



453 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Farming Shrimp With the Planet in Mind

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: In Belize, a determined American entrepreneur fulfills her lifelong dream to farm shrimp while cutting pollution.

 BODY:
7:41 a.m. | Updated Here's a shout-out to the amazing team of Pace University graduate and undergraduate students who, led by professor Maria Luskay (with my assistance), just completed the short documentary "Linda Thornton: Seeking Sustainability, One Shrimp at a Time." I hope you'll give it a look and offer your reaction.
The film chronicles the lifelong effort by Thornton, an Illinois native transplanted to Belize, to farm shrimp while leaving as small an imprint on ecosystems and waters as possible. She's largely succeeded, as you'll see, and is working with the World Wildlife Fund to try to develop a standard for farm-raised shrimp that can provide consumers with the confidence that they can enjoy this immensely popular seafood and a thriving environment, as well. 
The film spans three decades, following Thornton's journey from early experiments with urban indoor shrimp farming in Chicago to hard-won success in Belize, a country aiming to build its economy without harming its extraordinary natural assets - particularly its coastal mangrove forests and thriving coral reefs.
Undaunted by a boating accident that in 1994 took the lives of her husband and two other men and left her partially paralyzed, Thornton rebuilt her body and her early Belizean pig-farming business. After initial confrontations with environmental groups fighting a wave of shrimp farm development that was damaging coastal ecosystems from Asia to the Americas, Thornton, together with Tim Smith, a biologist working for the World Wildlife Fund, refined methods for controlling feed and water that dramatically cut pollution.
Nearly all of the shrimp raised at the three farms where Thornton works never leave the Caribbean. But other efforts are under way to grow shrimp for American restaurants and shoppers without antibiotics or the environmental impacts associated with old methods for farming, or netting, shrimp. One of the most interesting is the Blue Oasis Pure Shrimp facility outside of Las Vegas that is preparing for its first harvest of several million shrimp this fall. (Here's a recent CNN report on the operation.) My prediction is that such enterprises will spread, redefining "local food."
A few reviews of the Pace students' film have started to come in, including these thoughts from Carl Safina, the marine biologist, conservationist and author of a string of fine books exploring marine life and ways to fit human aspirations on a finite planet:This is an engaging and exquisitely executed project on a very worthwhile issue. It makes me want to go to Belize, meet her, and see this shrimp farm in operation. The video helps enable us to envision a solution, which is my definition of hope. Inspiring and well-done!
Randy Olson, the marine biologist turned filmmaker and science-communication evangelist, has given a thumbs up.
There's another nice aspect to this project. Interviews with Tim Smith and another biologist, Sean Ledwin of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, were videotaped by journalism students at the University of Colorado, Boulder, and through the Planet Forward project based at The George Washington University. The potential for more collaborative student-created journalism is unlimited.
Please pass this post around to seafood and ocean lovers. You can also follow the film on Facebook and Twitter @got_shrimp, and at the students' blog on the project.

        
Sustain What?
        
Linking Students Over Rising Atlantic Waters
        
Youth, 'Fossils' and Planetary Progress
        
Obama and 'Generation E' in Arizona
        
The Food and Energy Research Gaps

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AQUACULTURE (94%); SHELLFISH FARMING (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (90%); SEAFOOD (90%); CRUSTACEANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MARINE BIOLOGY (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); COASTAL AREAS (87%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (86%); FILM SCHOOLS (78%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (75%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); HOG & PIG FARMING (70%); ANTIBIOTICS (62%); RESTAURANTS (62%); WRITERS (60%) Agriculture; aquaculture; Belize; communication; Education; film; generation e; pace; seafood; Shrimp; Sustainability; Safina, Carl; Documentary Films and Programs; Fish Farming; Sustainable Living; Pace University; World Wildlife Fund; Linda Thornton: Seeking Sustainability, One Shrimp at a Time (Movie); biology; environmental policy; travel

ORGANIZATION: WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (91%) Pace University; World Wildlife Fund

PERSON: Safina, Carl

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) BELIZE (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%) Belize

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



454 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1722 words

HEADLINE: The Joys Of Staying Put

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE ROSENBLUM

 BODY:
IN 1973, a few years out of college, Esther Cohen and a friend named Emily rented a little two-bedroom apartment on West 77th Street overlooking the American Museum of Natural History. Ms. Cohen, who had grown up near New Haven, fell in love with the crosshatch shadows made by the fire escape and the view of the museum's turrets. She painted a rainbow atop the archway that led to the Creamsicle-orange hallway.
When Emily moved out a few months later, Ms. Cohen found a roommate named Harry, and at one of many parties held in the apartment -- Ms. Cohen was wearing a blue wig and Harry had made blanquette de veau -- she met a filmmaker named Peter Odabashian. Nearly four decades later, Ms. Cohen can still remember what his face looked like in the shadowy hallway. Within days Mr. Odabashian moved in, and the two have been together in the apartment for 37 years. Their son, Noah, whom they adopted from Chile in 1986, is currently living under the family roof, sometimes with his girlfriend, Chesray Dolpha, a student at New York University.
Ms. Cohen, a writer, acknowledges that the kitchen and bathroom are in need of renovation and that the rooms are small and sometimes dark. But good karma keeps her rooted. 
''I feel this is where I belong,'' Ms. Cohen said, and not just because the rent, originally under $200, is now just about $1,000. ''There's something elusive and mysterious about this space. It feels as if you could write a really good sentence here, or make a really nice meal.''
New Yorkers typically move a lot. Prompted by the arrival of a partner or a child, or money that buys more space or a nicer neighborhood, or simply an appetite for change, some New Yorkers move house every year or two. According to census estimates for 2009, 650,000 New Yorkers lived in a different house or apartment within the city than in the previous year.
But a few stay put, immune to the call of a larger apartment or a swankier neighborhood. They plant themselves in the same place for decades or for their entire adult lives. Some have been in the same apartment since graduating from college. Shortly after sinking roots in the city, they find a place that suits them and don't budge.
The writer Gay Talese likes to tell the story, most recently in New York magazine, about how he moved into an apartment in an East Side brownstone in 1958 when he was 26, colonized one apartment in it after another, then in 1973 bought the entire building, where he remains to this day.
People stay in one place for many reasons. Often the explanation is financial. In a city of ever-pricier housing, giving up even the tiniest rent-stabilized space can seem insane. If a personal or professional life doesn't change much, there may be no incentive to move, and even if a life evolves, a space may be elastic enough to accommodate shifting needs. Sometimes it's simply easier to stay than to go.
Many longtimers occupy modestly priced apartments in Manhattan; you hear the words ''rent-stabilized'' a lot. But these people are also found in houses in the boroughs outside Manhattan, where owners add extensions and finish basements to keep pace with changing family demands.
Typically, longtimers carefully observe laws governing sublets. And, like Joey Arias, a 54-year-old drag artist, performance artist and cabaret singer from North Carolina, they tend to love their apartments so much, they never stay away for long.
Mr. Arias moved to New York in 1981, and since 1986 has lived in Greenwich Village in a one-bedroom apartment on University Place for which he pays under $1,000 a month. For six years he worked in Las Vegas, returning to his beloved apartment once a month. ''I'd tell people that I work in Vegas, but I live in New York,'' he said.
What these people have in common is that few expected to remain for so long in a single place. As Ms. Cohen said, ''Time goes by so fast.''
Of all the housing types that allow a family to grow and evolve without leaving home, nothing beats the endlessly transformable loft. And the loft building on Wooster Street in SoHo that Shael Shapiro and several others bought 38 years ago for $150,000 proved especially accommodating, thanks largely to Mr. Shapiro's skills as an architect.
Mr. Shapiro, 70, who grew up on Long Island, moved into an apartment on the fifth floor with his first wife and added a mezzanine level. When the couple separated a few years later, he partitioned off the back of the space to create an apartment for her, and she remains there today. Mr. Shapiro and his second wife, whom he married in 1984, still have the front of loft, plus a sunroom he added on the roof.
''It took a while to figure things out,'' Mr. Shapiro said. ''The configuration changed six or eight times.'' Ceilings were raised, skylights and platforms added, rooms created. But even after the divorce, there never was there any question of leaving.
''We'd made a big financial investment, plus I had built a lot of it myself,'' Mr. Shapiro said. ''It made a lot more sense for both of us to keep the place.
''A loft gives you more freedom to stay put economically,'' he added. ''You've paid off the mortgage, and you're able to adapt the space to your needs.''
Anne McCarthy, 52, a model-turned-matrimonial-lawyer, discovered similar possibilities in the loft on 15th Street in Chelsea that she bought in 1985. The space, which had nine oversized windows facing the street and white wood floors that were as glassy as an ice-skating rink, cost $220,000.
Since then her life has changed in profound ways: her first marriage in 1986, the birth in 1988 of her son Ian, her divorce in 1992, her second marriage in 1996, the births of her daughter, Genevieve, in 1998 and a second son, Nathan, in 2001, and her divorce from her second husband in 2008.
Through it all, the loft was constantly reworked, with new walls going up and old ones coming down. The space set off with shelves for a crib when Ian was born later served Genevieve and then Nathan; when Ms. McCarthy looks around, in her mind's eye she can see all the loft's previous iterations.
''Through two marriages, two divorces, three children -- the apartment just seemed to keep giving,'' Ms. McCarthy said. ''I never had to give up something to make a change.''
Because she refinanced the loft in the '80s and '90s, it kept giving financially as well. ''The apartment has provided like a good husband,'' Ms. McCarthy said. ''It's morphed and changed with my life. It's always been there for me, whatever the combination.''
It also fulfilled deep-rooted emotional needs. ''When I was young,'' she said, ''we moved every two years. Subconsciously, it was very important to me to have a home I'd stay in. But in my wildest dreams, I wouldn't have imagined what this place gave to me. It let me change without moving.''
Now Ms. McCarthy is again counting on the loft to come to her rescue; in an effort to pay tuition bills and live mortgage-free, she put it on the market for $2 million a few weeks ago.
Staying put also allows a person to remain in the city on a relatively modest salary, even if tradeoffs must be made.
Alan Perna, 68, a hairstylist, moved to Manhattan from Windsor Terrace, Brooklyn, in 1965. The next year, he rented a one-bedroom apartment in a former tenement on Charles Street in Greenwich Village for $125 a month. In 1983, when the building went co-op, he bought the apartment for $24,000.
''If I'd met someone, I might have moved,'' said Mr. Perna, who works at Robert G Salon just around the corner. ''But this apartment would be small for two people.''
He admits that he covets apartments that are higher and brighter than his first-floor space, though he says the high ceilings keep him from feeling claustrophobic, not to mention the house he owns upstate. ''It's easy to become trapped,'' Mr. Perna said. ''But I have no regrets. I love my apartment.''
Carlos Forero, 64, a contractor from Colombia, moved to New York in 1968. For the past 30 years, he and his wife, Yadira, have lived in Queens Village, in a three-bedroom house with chocolate-colored shingles that he bought for $86,000. He was especially taken with the finished basement and the two-car garage where he could park the truck and van he needs for his business, Mr. C Waterproofing.
What was intended as a starter house has became much more. Here the couple raised four children, and Mr. Forero has done considerable renovation, including floors and stairs.
''My wife always talks about moving to Long Island,'' Mr. Forero said. ''She says we could have a patio. Me, I don't care. I say we're perfect here.''
Jed Marcus, a real estate lawyer, and his wife, Jessica Greenbaum, a poet, are similarly rooted outside Manhattan. In 1976, when Mr. Marcus was 27, he invested $60,000 in a century-old brownstone, encrusted with original details, on Vanderbilt Avenue in the Fort Greene Historic District.
At first he lived there with a shifting group of friends, establishing an office on the garden floor. Ms. Greenbaum arrived in 1988; the two were married the following year, and they are raising two teenage daughters. When Mr. Marcus moved to Fort Greene, it was in many respect an area on the ropes, beset by a myriad of social and economic woes. Over the years, the neighborhood has become increasingly gentrified and increasingly diverse.
''I'd never have predicted that I would stay for so long,'' he said. ''I always thought I'd move around the city and the world. But instead the world came to me in Fort Greene.''
Dan and Toby Talbot, who grew up in the Bronx and moved to Manhattan in their early 20s, have also seen considerable gentrification in their part of the Upper West Side.
The couple have lived for 51 years in an eight-room apartment at 90th Street overlooking the Hudson River. When they moved in, the rent was $300 a month. Around the corner that same year, 1960, they started the New Yorker Theater, an art movie house that became a neighborhood institution.
In the early '60s, when the building went co-op, they at first hesitated to buy. ''It seemed too bourgeois,'' Ms. Talbot said. ''But there was never any reason to leave. We lived behind the store.''
Now that the theater is long shuttered, would they consider moving? ''Never,'' Ms. Talbot said. ''I put 10 antique Persian tiles in the wall in the kitchen that will keep us here forever.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: POSTCOLLEGE: Esther Cohen moved into an apartment on West 77th Street in 1973. She still lives there, along with her husband, Peter Odabashian, their son, Noah Odabashian, and his girlfriend, Chesray Dolpha. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER S. ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE1)
IT'S HOME: Clockwise from above: Alan Perna, 68, a hairstylist, has lived on Charles Street in Greenwich Village since 1966. In 1985 Anne McCarthy, 52, a lawyer, bought a West 15th Street loft that she has since reworked to fit three children, Genevieve, Ian, center, and Nathan. Jed Marcus, 62, a lawyer, bought a Fort Greene brownstone in 1976. It's home today to his wife, Jessica Greenbaum, and their daughter Becki. (Another daughter is away at school.) Shael Shapiro, 70, an architect, has spent 38 years adapting a Wooster Street building to suit evolving family needs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ANGELA JIMENEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JENNIFER S. ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); WRITERS (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); HISTORY (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); CITY LIFE (71%); CENSUS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



455 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Suddenly, Gold Isn't Looking So Solid

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
A RICH man carrying a heavy bag of gold coins set sail on a voyage, but his ship ran into stormy weather. Before it capsized, he attached the bag of gold to his waist and jumped overboard. He sank with his fortune, never to be seen again.
''Now, as he was sinking, had he the gold? Or had the gold him?''
The English critic John Ruskin wrote this parable more than a century ago, but it raises a question that investors may wisely ask today. Many people have tied their portfolios, if not their very lives, to gold. Yet after the wrenching sell-off and burst of unusually high volatility in the commodity markets this month, should gold and other commodities even be a part of a typical investment portfolio?
Although gold is certainly alluring, the answer isn't simple. 
That gold has been wildly popular -- at least until commodity markets plunged -- is indisputable, and not just because of its gleaming beauty. It served, after all, as the immutable standard of the global monetary system until the 1970s, a status that has helped give it a certain appeal in an era of wildly fluctuating financial values.
As a measure of gold's acceptance as a mainstream investment, a gold exchange-traded fund -- SPDR Gold Shares, offered by State Street Global Advisors -- was the second-most-popular E.T.F. in the United States on April 30, trailing only State Street's flagship, the SPDR S.& P. 500 fund.
But despite the yellow metal's sometimes mythic appeal -- well documented in Peter L. Bernstein's classic, ''The Power of Gold,'' which recounts the Ruskin parable -- it is in many ways now just another commodity, like oil, silver, wheat or pork bellies, subject to the vagaries of the markets and, recently, to an extraordinary level of volatility.
It has been behaving much more sedately than its sister metal, silver, which has lost more than a quarter of its value this month, after rising nearly 400 percent since October 2008. But gold has not been a paragon of stable value. It has dropped more than 4 percent this month after more than doubling in value since October 2008.
Which brings us back to the question: Does it make sense for a long-term investor to join in this jolting race?
Leading asset management firms provide very different answers. T. Rowe Price and Fidelity, for example, include allocations of gold and other commodities in their target-date mutual funds -- standard portfolios that are intended to be all an investor needs until retirement or later. ''We think that in moderation, in a well-diversified portfolio, getting exposure to what we call 'real assets' is useful,'' said Richard Fullmer, an asset allocation strategist at T. Rowe Price.
But Vanguard does not include gold or any other commodity in its target-date retirement funds or any other core funds. For a basic portfolio, it considers them superfluous and highly volatile.
''We recognize that some people may want an exposure to gold for their own reasons, and that's fine if they do,'' said Fran Kinniry, principal at Vanguard's Investment Strategy Group. ''But we've found that for the typical investor, you can get all the diversification you need without including any commodities at all.''
In a strict sense, commodities may not even be an investment asset class , because they don't produce any cash flow or earnings or dividends. That's the view of Gary P. Brinson, a scholar and veteran strategist based in Chicago.
''A bar of gold is just a bar of gold,'' he said in a telephone interview last week. ''It doesn't do anything. There's a market for it, sure, just as there is for, say, a work of fine art, and if you buy and sell at the right price, you'll make a profit. But if there's no cash flow, no dividend, no earnings, how do you calculate its intrinsic worth?'' Answer: ''You can't. It's not that kind of an asset.''
In the 1980s and '90s, Mr. Brinson did path-breaking research on the effects of asset allocation on portfolios. In two papers in the Financial Analysts Journal, he and several colleagues found that broad decisions about asset classes -- which to hold and in which proportions -- accounted for more than 90 percent of a portfolio's performance.
He concluded that eight asset classes -- none of them gold or any other commodity -- were all that an investor needed. For a model ''moderate risk'' portfolio under normal market conditions, he said in the interview, those eight and their allocations are: stocks from developed markets, 49 percent; emerging-market stocks, 6 percent; investment-grade bonds from developed markets, 25 percent; emerging-market bonds, 2 percent; high-yield bonds, 3 percent; commercial real estate, 10 percent; and private equity and venture capital combined, 5 percent.
All but the private equity and venture capital portions can be bought through low-cost index mutual funds or E.T.F.'s.
Is there any use for gold and other commodities in a diversified portfolio? There might be, he said, if you view them as a form of insurance against a specific risk and if the price is reasonable. Gold might be seen as a hedge against inflation, he said -- although it has underperformed since 1980. It might also be viewed as a hedge against a decline in the value of the dollar, but at gold's current level, he said, ''you're paying a very high price'' for it.
Mr. Kinniry of Vanguard pointed out that stocks and gold had both been negatively correlated with the dollar -- meaning they have tended to rise when the dollar has fallen. But since 1985, the negative correlation of stocks has been greater, and stocks have also provided a greater return. In short, an allocation to international stocks would have hedged better against a dollar decline, with much lower volatility.
ONE argument for putting up with the volatility of commodities like gold is that their long-term price trend is upward. That's the case made by Joe Wickwire, who manages the Fidelity Global Commodity Stock fund and the Fidelity Select Gold Portfolio.
''Commodities and gold, from an asset-class standpoint, are in secular bull markets'' because of the growth of resource-intensive emerging-market economies, he said. (Mr. Wickwire also said that over the long haul, exposure to commodities was worthwhile for portfolio diversification, regardless of price trends.)
Of course, it's much easier to discern trends after the fact, and on that score the picture for gold isn't entirely attractive. It peaked in price in 1980 at $850 a troy ounce. Factor in inflation, and that comes to more than $2,400. After more than 30 years, in other words, an investor in gold would still be operating at a loss, without even counting the cost of storing and protecting the gold.
It's a beautiful metal, certainly. Is it worth holding? Maybe, but don't bet your life on it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Investments in gold have a certain appeal in uncertain times. But this month, gold has looked more like just another commodity, full of volatility. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RATCLIFFE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); COINS & COINAGE (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (88%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (70%); NEW ISSUES (70%); PORK (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



456 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: THE ART OF ECONOMIC COMPLEXITY

BYLINE: By TIM HARFORD

 BODY:
These diagrams are the early fruits of a new approach to the most important unsolved problem of the last century: how to make a rich country out of a poor one. Development economists have many theories about how the trick is done but few proven answers. A compelling solution would be useful closer to home, too: understanding the process of economic development would help us work out whether it matters that service jobs are replacing manufacturing ones or whether there is anything the government can and should do to stimulate new industries like biotechnology or green energy.
Strip away the mathematical language of economists, and conventional theories of economic growth are rather crude. Economies produce ''stuff,'' and if you want more stuff to come out of the process, put more stuff in (like human capital, say). Yet economies do not produce stuff so much as billions of distinct types of goods -- perhaps 10 billion, according to Eric Beinhocker of the McKinsey Global Institute -- ranging from size 34 dark stonewash boot-cut jeans to beauty therapies involving avocado. The difference between China's economy and that of the United States is not simply that China's is smaller; it has a different structure entirely. 
Thanks to Cesar A. Hidalgo of the M.I.T. Media Lab, we can now visualize the differences between national economies in new ways. Hidalgo is a statistical physicist fascinated by the structure of networks, and along with the Harvard economist Ricardo Hausmann, he has been developing tools designed to study not just economic wealth but also economic structure and sophistication.
Hidalgo and Hausmann think of economies as collections of ''capabilities'' that can be combined in different ways like an Erector set to produce different products. An Internet retailer, for instance, cannot function without some kind of electronic-payment network. It also needs a working system of postal addresses -- not every country has one -- as well as reliable mail. Because these capabilities cannot be easily identified and observed, Hausmann and Hidalgo track the silhouettes that the capabilities cast upon trade statistics. If a product is a significant part of a country's exports, it offers evidence that the country has certain kinds of related capabilities.
Economies that export many types of products are more likely to be sophisticated; products exported only by sophisticated economies are more likely to be complex. Sophistication and wealth do not always go hand in hand. China and India are more complex than their incomes would suggest; Libya's economy is richer than you would expect but also simpler. When economies are relatively sophisticated but relatively poor, they often have the potential for quick growth, as we have seen in China and India.
Hidalgo and Hausmann have also mapped the world's ''product space'' using trade data on 774 product classifications, from cotton undergarments to phenols. These are the gray constellations of products in the charts above. The colored circles are major exports of a given economy (in this case, the United States on the left and China on the right). Products are closely connected on the underlying network if they tend to be exported by the same economies. For example, a range of electronic components is exported by a number of economies (which happen to be in East Asia), so those products are clustered together. China is one of these electronics exporters, hence that cluster of products is highlighted. The United States is not.
At the fringes of the product space are development dead ends. Better-connected nodes represent industries that offer promising prospects for growth. Hidalgo can show how economies change in structure over time, moving from simpler goods to scarcer, more valuable ones. Countries rarely make radical structural changes. Instead, they generate capabilities gradually, and new industries usually develop from existing ones. Unfortunately, some industries -- oil extraction, say, or fishing -- do not naturally lead to anything new without a huge leap.
These product maps lead to an uncomfortable conclusion about economic development: they hint at how difficult and complex it may be for government planners to kick-start a new industry -- while showing that there are new industries that will struggle to get started without help.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS: United States 2009 (MM40)
ABOVE: The evolution of China's export economy: China, 1975
China 1985
China 1995
 China 2009 (GRAPHICS BY CESAR A. HIDALGO and ALEX SIMOES) (MM41) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (84%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); RETAILERS (68%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (62%); INTERNET RETAILING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (97%); INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



457 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1542 words

HEADLINE: WHIFF OF SCANDAL

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

 BODY:
More than any other American sport, baseball has an established historical footprint, and among its significant early events is the fixing of the 1919 World Series by gamblers and the Chicago White Sox, a team forever labeled the Black Sox. It is the only recognized gambling scandal to tarnish a World Series.
In recent weeks, however, there has been new scrutiny of the previous year's championship and questions about the legitimacy of the outcome: the Boston Red Sox defeated the Chicago Cubs. And on Friday, the Cubs visit Fenway Park in Boston for the first time since the final game of the 1918 World Series.
Are the Cubs returning to the scene of a hidden baseball crime? 
No documented proof exists, but there are suspicions, largely because the conditions were ripe for a bribe, as they were in 1919.
''It seems more likely that there would have been a fix than there would not have been,'' the author John Thorn, the official historian for Major League Baseball, said of the 1918 Series. ''It would be surprising if it didn't come up. At that time, the connection between baseball players and gamblers was that strong.''
If this were a mystery novel, the smoking gun would be a court deposition displayed in April at the Chicago History Museum from Eddie Cicotte, the first of the Black Sox to confess. In the 1920 deposition, Cicotte said matter-of-factly that his 1919 teammates talked about how one or several Cubs were offered $10,000 to fix the 1918 Series.
Aware of the deposition months before the exhibit, the author Sean Deveney began examining the 1918 Cubs and last year, his book, ''The Original Curse,'' suggested that several misplays and mental lapses during the World Series pointed to a fix. The book also highlighted the sequence of events that could have induced players to want to make a different kind of score. World War I's ruinous effect on baseball's economy had cut the players' pay in half, the 1919 season had been unofficially canceled, and most players expected to be drafted when the Series ended.
Why not take a last chance at a big payday?
It does not add up to evidence of a fix, but it has opened wounds and stirred ghosts, especially because being a Cubs fan means knowing your team last won a World Series in 1908. The 1918 World Series is also a source of pride to Red Sox fans; that Babe Ruth-led team was the franchise's last championship until 2004.
And in Chicago, the city's centuries-old baseball rivalry has a new issue for debate.
''White Sox fans are happy to have someone else in the rowboat with them,'' said Peter Alter, archivist for the Chicago History Museum.
Baseball researchers have few verifiable clues to follow when it comes to the 1918 World Series because all the principals are dead and sportswriters of that era rarely wrote about off-the-field matters. In the deposition, Cicotte said the conversation about the Cubs occurred while the White Sox were riding a train east. He concluded his remarks by saying, ''Somebody made a crack about getting money if we got into the Series.''
Cicotte said little more, and investigators, intent on keeping the focus on 1919, never pursued the lead. But gamblers and players mingled freely throughout baseball's early years, staying in the same hotels and frequenting the same bars, restaurants and pool halls. The athletes were middle-class wage earners in those days and had much in common with the gambling set.
Gamblers taking bets -- bookies in today's parlance -- wandered baseball's grandstands before and during games.
Thorn, who has been researching baseball's past for decades, wrote in his recent book, ''Baseball in the Garden of Eden,'' that the sport's first gambling scandal occurred in 1865. A player in the first World Series in 1903 was offered a $10,000 bribe. (He refused.) There was also talk that the 1914 and 1917 World Series had been fixed.
''With racetracks closed because of wartime restrictions, gambling in baseball spiked because the dollars had to go somewhere,'' Thorn said.
War and Anxiety
The shaky monetary underpinnings of baseball in 1918 created a climate of uncertainty about the game's future. The war and a staggering world economy devastated a business like baseball that relied on fans' spending their disposable income at the ballpark. Attendance was down because so many top players had been drafted. The 1918 regular season ended early, Sept. 1, and many thought professional baseball would disappear for several seasons once the Series concluded.
The Brooklyn Dodgers had agreed to lease Ebbets Field in 1919 to the government as a storage facility.
The first three games of the 1918 Series were played at the White Sox home, Comiskey Park, because it had more seats than the Cubs' home field. The extra seats were not needed; the first three games, of which Boston won two, averaged about 22,000 fans.
On the train to Boston for the final games -- the teams rode together -- the players added the gate receipts and calculated their shares, which figured to be about $1,100 for the winners and about $600 for the losers. That was roughly half the money they expected.
''From the beginning of Game 4, things started to look funny, or wrong, on the field,'' Deveney said. ''The first three games had been tight and well-played. The next three games had all these strange blunders.''
The outcome of the Series hinged in some ways on the play of two opposing players, one famous (Ruth) and one not (Max Flack).
Ruth won two games as a pitcher and drove in two pivotal runs. Flack, the Cubs' leadoff hitter, made his presence known in the first at-bat of Game 4 when he lined a single off Ruth. But with one out, Flack wandered off first base and was picked off by the Red Sox catcher
In the third inning, Flack reached first on a force and moved to second on a fielder's choice. Ruth, seeing Flack far from the base, wheeled and threw from the mound, and Flack was picked off again. Flack is the only player in the history of the World Series to be picked off twice in one game.
In the fourth inning with two Red Sox on base, Cubs pitcher Lefty Tyler had a 3-2 count on Ruth, who had emerged as a dominant hitter. Tyler noticed that Flack was playing shallow in right field.
''Tyler waved him back,'' The Chicago Herald-American wrote of the sequence. ''Flack did not pay attention to the command. Once again, Tyler motioned him, but Max was obstinate.''
Ruth smacked a triple over Flack's head, and both runners scored.
The Cubs tied the score in the top of the eighth. But in the bottom of the inning, Cubs reliever Phil Douglas fielded a sacrifice bunt and threw wildly into right field allowing a runner to score the eventual winning run from second base. In 1922, as a star pitcher for the New York Giants, Douglas was barred from baseball for life after he wrote a letter to a St. Louis Cardinals player suggesting he would retire and leave the team if paid to do so. The Cardinals and the Giants were in a tight August pennant race.
Tension Over Money
Before 1918's Game 5, the players refused to leave their Fenway Park locker rooms in a protest over their diminished World Series pay. (Attendance in Boston was no better than in Chicago.) Promised a meeting with team owners, the players took the field after a one-hour delay. The Cubs won, 3-0, behind pitcher Hippo Vaughn.
The players' meeting with ownership was fruitless and only 15,238 fans -- less than half of capacity -- showed up for the final professional baseball game of the year. Charlie Pick got the first Cubs hit off Boston starter Carl Mays with two outs in the second inning, and was picked off first base before Mays threw another pitch.
Flack, who had five hits and four walks in the six Series games, dropped a routine two-out drive to right field in the fourth inning; his error allowed both Boston runs to score in the clinching 2-1 victory.
No celebration took place on the field.
''Taps for professional baseball for the duration of the war sounded at Fenway Park today,'' The Chicago Tribune wrote.
Unexpectedly, the war ended Nov. 11, and baseball returned the next April.
Deveney said, ''If you look at the various factors, not the least being that the likely next stop for the players was the front lines of France's Western Front, you can see how even honest men might have been driven to cheat.''
'Where's the Proof?'
Other baseball historians are hardly convinced.
''There isn't anything inherently suspicious to me,'' said Bill Lamb, an 18-year member of the Society for American Baseball Research, who is on the Black Sox scandal research committee. ''You're telling me the right fielder threw the Series? Seems to me you would want the pitcher or the catcher instead.''
Lamb, who spent 33 years as a prosecutor in New Jersey, added: ''I am aware people do bad things, but just because something is conceivable doesn't make it so. Where's the proof?''
In Boston, the Red Sox historian Bill Nowlin said fans would be chagrined to hear that the team's last 20th-century championship was tainted.
''But as a lifelong Red Sox fan, I'm not feeling too defensive about it.'' Nowlin said. ''Besides, most Red Sox fans are closet Cubs fans because of the identification with their long drought without a title.
''This would only add a little twist to it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Cubs' Max Flack, top, was picked off base twice in Game 4 of the 1918 World Series. Babe Ruth was the winning pitcher and drove in two runs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
BASEBALL HALL OF FAME) (SP1)
 The 1918 Red Sox. Players had their wages cut as the game struggled during World War I. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRANSCENDENTAL GRAPHICS -- RUCKERARCHIVE.COM) (SP2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (94%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); HISTORY (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); SPORTS TAMPERING (90%); WRITERS (88%); DEPOSITIONS (87%); ATHLETES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); WORLD WAR I (75%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (74%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); GAMING (72%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (93%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (84%); BOSTON RED SOX (83%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



458 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: 'I Am a Man'

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Watching the Arab uprisings these days leaves me with a smile on my face and a pit in my stomach. The smile comes from witnessing a whole swath of humanity losing its fear and regaining its dignity. The pit comes from a rising worry that the Arab Spring may have been both inevitable and too late. If you are not feeling both these impulses, you're not paying attention.
The smile? A Libyan friend remarked to me the other day that he was watching Arab satellite TV out of Benghazi, Libya, and a sign held aloft at one demonstration caught his eye. It said in Arabic: ''Ana Rajul'' -- which translates to ''I am a man.'' If there is one sign that sums up the whole Arab uprising, it's that one. 
As I've tried to argue, this uprising, at root, is not political. It's existential. It is much more Albert Camus than Che Guevara. All these Arab regimes to one degree or another stripped their people of their basic dignity. They deprived them of freedom and never allowed them to develop anywhere near their full potential. And as the world has become hyper-connected, it became obvious to every Arab citizen just how far behind they were -- not only to the West, but to China, India and parts of sub-Saharan Africa.
This combination of being treated as children by their autocrats and as backward by the rest of the world fueled a deep humiliation, which shows up in signs like that one in Libya, announcing to no one in particular: ''I am a man'' -- I have value, I have aspirations, I want the rights everyone else in the world has. And because so many Arabs share these feelings, this Arab Spring is not going to end -- no matter how many people these regimes kill.
It is novelists, not political scientists, who can best articulate this mood. Raymond Stock, who teaches Arabic at Drew University in Madison, N.J., is writing a biography of the Egyptian Nobel laureate Naguib Mahfouz. In an essay published by the Foreign Policy Research Institute, Stock pointed out how Mahfouz foreshadowed so many of the feelings driving the Arab Spring in his novel ''Before the Throne.'' There, Mahfouz puts in the mouth of a rebel firebrand, defending his revolution against the pharaoh, words that could have been heard on any afternoon in Tahrir Square this year:
''We have endured agonies beyond what any human can bear. When our ferocious anger was raised against the rottenness of oppression and darkness, our revolt was called chaos, and we were called mere thieves. Yet it was nothing but a revolution against despotism, blessed by the gods.''
But that also explains that pit in the stomach. These Arab regimes have been determined to prevent any civil society or progressive parties from emerging under their rule. So when these regimes break at the top, the elevator goes from the palace straight to the mosque. There is nothing else in between -- no legitimate parties or institutions.
So outsiders face a cruel dilemma: Those who say America should have stood by Hosni Mubarak, or should not favor toppling Bashar al-Assad in Syria -- in the name of stability -- forget that their stability was built on the stagnation of millions of Arabs, while the rest of the world moved ahead. The Arab people were not offered Chinese autocratic stability: We take your freedom and give you education and a rising standard of living. Their deal was Arab autocratic stability: We take your freedom and feed you the Arab-Israeli conflict, corruption and religious obscurantism.
But to embrace the downfall of these dictators -- as we must -- is to advocate leveling a rotten building with no assurance that it can be rebuilt. That is what happened in Iraq, and it was hugely expensive for us to rebuild a new, and still tenuous, order there. No outsider is going to do that again.
So to embrace the downfall of these dictators is to hope that their own people can come together to midwife democracy in Egypt, Syria, Yemen and Libya. But here one must honestly ask: Is the breakdown in these societies too deep for anyone to build anything decent out of? Was the Arab Spring both inevitable and too late?
My answer: It's never too late, but some holes are deeper than others, and we are now seeing that the hole Arab democrats have to climb out of is really, really deep. Wish them well.
Again, Stock points us to a passage in Mahfouz's ''Before the Throne,'' which is a novel in which each Egyptian leader challenges his successor. In this case, Mustafa al-Nahhas, the head of the liberal Wafd Party, which was crushed when Gamal Abdel Nasser led a military coup in 1952, berates Nasser for eroding Egypt's constitutional heritage.
''Those who launched the 1919 Revolution were people of initiative and innovation in ... politics, economics and culture,'' Nahhas tells Nasser. ''How your highhandedness spoiled your most pristine depths! See how education was vitiated, how the public sector grew depraved! How your defiance of the world's powers led you to horrendous losses and shameful defeats! You never sought the benefit of another person's opinion ... And what was the result? Clamor and cacophony, and an empty mythology -- all heaped on a pile of rubble.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (66%); WRITERS (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (55%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); NOBEL PRIZES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (52%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (91%); CHINA (79%); AFRICA (77%); EGYPT (69%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (54%); INDIA (54%); UNITED STATES (52%)

TITLE: Before the Throne (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



459 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Major Delusions

BYLINE: By TALI SHAROT. 
Tali Sharot, a research fellow at the Wellcome Trust Center for Neuroimaging at University College London, is the author of ''The Optimism Bias: A Tour of the Irrationally Positive Brain.''

 BODY:
London
THIS month American college seniors will don caps and gowns. As they await receipt of their diplomas, they will absorb lessons handed to them by the accomplished men and women who deliver commencement speeches. More often than not the speakers will be outliers: rare individuals who made it against all odds. More often than not their message will be ''dreams come true ... take chances ... if you try hard enough you will succeed.''
''Don't know that you can't fly, and you will soar like an eagle,'' Earl E. Bakken, founder of the medical technology company Medtronic, told the University of Hawaii's class of 2004. ''You have to trust that the dots will somehow connect in your future,'' Steven P. Jobs told Stanford's 2005 graduates. 
But in an era of unemployment, financial meltdowns, political unrest and natural disasters, is this message of optimism helpful?
By and large, the answer is yes. Although the graduates are unlikely to be as fortunate as their commencement speakers, evidence from the science of optimism indicates that believing in their optimistic message will nonetheless be a good thing.
We now know that underestimating the obstacles life has in store lowers stress and anxiety, leading to better health and well-being. This is one reason optimists recover faster from illnesses and live longer. Believing a goal is attainable motivates us to get closer to our dreams. Because of the power of optimism, enhancing graduates' faith in the American dream by presenting them with rare examples as proof may be just what the doctor ordered. Their hopes may not be fully realized, but they will be more successful, healthier and happier if they hold on to positively biased expectations.
Surveys show that students expect to receive more job offers and higher salaries upon graduation than they wind up getting. They anticipate being married till death do them part, though they are acutely aware that statistics say there's a good chance they won't be. They underestimate their likelihood of suffering from cancer, heart attack and other misfortunes and overestimate their likelihood of acquiring wealth and professional success. The list goes on and on.
It's not just the young who embrace positive delusions. Whether you are 9 or 90, male or female, of African or European descent, you are likely to have an optimism bias. In fact, 80 percent of the world does. (Many believe optimism is unique to Americans; studies show the rest of the world is just as optimistic.)
In fact, the people who accurately predict the likelihood of coming events tend to be mildly depressed. The rest of us systematically fail when interpreting the crystal ball.
For many years, scientists were puzzled by the existence of this unshakable optimism. It did not make sense. How is it that people remain optimistic even though information challenging those predictions is abundantly available? It turns out it is not commencement speeches or self-help books that make us hopeful. Recently, with the development of non-invasive brain imaging techniques, we have gathered evidence that suggests our brains are hard-wired to be unrealistically optimistic. When we learn what the future may hold, our neurons efficiently encode unexpectedly good information, but fail to incorporate information that is unexpectedly bad.
That's why when we listen to Oprah Winfrey's rags-to-riches story our brain takes note and concludes that we too may become immensely rich and powerful one day; but when told the likelihood of being unemployed is almost 1 in 10 or of suffering from cancer is over 1 in 3 we take no notice.
Such optimistic illusions, with all of their advantages, unfortunately come at a price. Underestimating risk makes us less likely to practice safe sex, save for retirement, buy insurance or undergo medical screenings.
In some cases relatively minor biases can even lead to global disaster. Take the financial crisis of 2008. Each investor, homeowner, banker or economic regulator expected slightly better profits than were realistically warranted. On its own, each bias would not have created huge losses. Yet when combined in one market they produced a giant financial bubble that did just that.
As the Duke economists Manju Puri and David T. Robinson suggest, optimism is like red wine: a glass a day is good for you, but a bottle a day can be hazardous. The optimal solution then? Believe you will live a long healthy life, but go for frequent medical screenings. Aspire to write the next ''Harry Potter'' series, but have a safety net in place too.
At a time when the economic crisis is deepened by revolutions and tsunamis, cautious optimism may be the most useful message to communicate to graduates -- believe you can fly, with a parachute attached, and you will soar like an eagle.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SUBLIME RIDICULOUS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (70%); HEALTH CARE (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); CANCER (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); HEART DISEASE (65%); NATURAL DISASTERS (53%)

COMPANY: MEDTRONIC INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII (57%)

TICKER: MDT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (57%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



460 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; COLLECTING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Dreaming of Steam, but Running on Gas

BYLINE: By PAUL STENQUIST

 BODY:
TO Robert Paxton McCulloch, the idea of transplanting London Bridge to an Arizona desert probably seemed no more far-fetched in the 1960s than his dream, nearly two decades earlier, of mass-producing a steam-powered automobile.
The difference was, he succeeded in relocating that 19th-century bridge, while his ambitions as an automaker yielded only a single example of the Paxton Phoenix.
That prototype eventually drove under its own power -- using a Porsche engine, not steam -- but it was nowhere near ready for showrooms. Still, it embodied elements of design and technology that were ahead of their time, and it served as a showcase for the work of Brooks Stevens, an industrial designer whose creations helped define postwar America.
Some of the details, strikingly futuristic for a 1953 model, were visible to anyone who spotted the car last July at the Concours d'Elegance of America near Detroit. Among the features of the Paxton Phoenix that later came into wide use were fiberglass body panels (the Chevrolet Corvette used similar construction) and a retractable hardtop, extraordinary then but a common design for convertibles today. 
Like other inventors who tried to create new vehicle brands, Mr. McCulloch was determined to make his car stand out. Backed by a sizable inheritance, he hired people well qualified to match wits with the industry's titans.
His team included Roscoe C. Hoffman, a talented engineer and chassis specialist who in the 1930s developed an innovative rear-engine car. Also on board were Abner Doble, a steam-engine expert who had his own car company earlier in the 20th century, and most significant, the forward-thinking Mr. Stevens.
In the 2003 book, ''Industrial Strength Design: How Brooks Stevens Shaped Your World,'' Glenn Adamson wrote that while Mr. Stevens created many distinctive products, his goal was to design things that would succeed in the marketplace. That philosophy made him a good match for Mr. McCulloch, whose ventures generally came to a profitable conclusion.
Mr. Stevens's father, William C. Stevens, was an inventor of vehicle components, so the son was immersed in the automotive world from an early age. While the father had a passion for the way things worked, the younger Mr. Stevens was more interested in the way things looked, but shared his father's inventiveness.
Automobiles were a focal point, but they were not his only interest, and over a long career he created designs for home furnishings, appliances, toys, boats, motorcycles, trains and tractors. His automotive designs included the Studebaker Gran Turismo Hawk, but he will forever be remembered as the man who helped put the wiener on wheels, with his Oscar Mayer Wienermobile.
The Paxton design had little in common with cars of the day.
Its headlights were set in scalloped openings evocative of jet engines. Its front bumper dipped below the car's grille. Air vents that rose above the rear fenders -- again suggesting aircraft -- interrupted the machine's smooth, rounded flanks. The rear of the car was reminiscent of boats designed by Mr. Stevens.
But most distinctive was the smooth curve of its roof and a corresponding curve on the rear decklid. The repetition of forms was no accident, as the top, when retracted, slid rearward to nestle over the deck lid.
Home base for the project was Paxton Engineering, the research arm of Mr. McCulloch's manufacturing enterprises. Near the Los Angeles International Airport, it was where some of Mr. McCulloch's most inventive odysseys took place. Although best known for the chain saws that carried his name, the entrepreneurial engineer was also an auto parts maker, oil baron and real-estate developer.
Under the Paxton's fiberglass body was a chassis that borrowed aircraft construction techniques. The independent suspension used torsion bars, similar to the layout of a Porsche 356 -- no coincidence, as one had been bought for Mr. McCulloch's team to dissect and study.
In the early stages of the project, Mr. McCulloch had planned to power the car with a 3-cylinder, 6-piston, 2-stroke internal-combustion engine, with a crankshaft at each side and combustion chambers in the middle of the cylinders. That power plant was abandoned in favor of a steam engine.
The Paxton steam engine was to be installed between the rear wheels, with the boiler up front. The appeal of steam was strong: almost any liquid fuel could be burned to make steam, and because the steam engine delivered high torque at low speeds, no transmission would be needed.
Abner Doble was a champion of steam power who had some success with his line of steam-powered cars. His best design, the model E of 1923, was capable of 90 m.p.h. But financial mismanagement led to his company's failure, and Mr. Doble spent the rest of his career as a consultant.
The engine eventually developed for the Paxton was a compound design using three high-pressure cylinders and three low-pressure cylinders; a flash-tube boiler eliminated the need for long warm-ups typical of early steam cars. The engine was tested in a 1953 Ford, but before it could be installed in the Paxton, the entire project was abandoned.
An article about the Paxton that appeared in Classic & Sports Car magazine in March 2009 suggested that problems with the steam engine led Mr. McCulloch to call it quits.
Jerry Williamson, foreman of the Paxton shop in the early 1950s, said in a telephone interview that the steam engine was not the reason that development stopped.
''The death of the car was purely economical,'' said Mr. Williamson, adding that he was the last surviving member of the Phoenix team. ''Tax laws had changed, eliminating some write-offs for research and development. McCulloch simply decided that the car business was not for him.''
At some point, the engine and transaxle from the Porsche 356 that Mr. McCulloch bought to tear down for research were installed in the Phoenix. Classic & Sports Car magazine said that this was done after he gave up his plan to mass-produce the car, but Mr. Williamson recalled the Porsche engine being bolted into the Paxton so the chassis could be tested as steam engine development continued. In any case, the Porsche engine became the power source, and it has served in that role ever since.
In later years, Mr. McCulloch drove the car occasionally. When he died in 1977, the car was sold. It was sold again when the second owner died, this time to the man whose imagination had shaped it: Brooks Stevens. When he died in 1995, the car was in his museum in Wisconsin, where it remained until the collection was sold in 1998.
''Every owner has died with the car in his possession,'' the former curator of the Stevens museum, Alice Preston, said in a telephone interview. ''Myron Vernis, who purchased the car when I sold the collection, has promised not to sell it.''
Mr. Vernis, a property manager from Akron, Ohio, said that while the agreement was informal, he had no plans to part with the car. Before he showed the Paxton at the Meadow Brook concours last year, it had been displayed at the Pebble Beach event on the Monterey Peninsula of California.
According to Mr. Vernis and Ms. Preston, the Paxton is a pleasure to drive. It has traveled only 800 miles in its long life, and Mr. Vernis has clocked 200 of those.
''As a Brook Stevens enthusiast, it is probably the only opportunity I will ever have to own a totally original, one-off creation of his, which is very important to me,'' Mr. Vernis wrote in an e-mail. ''There's a high likelihood that my daughters will either be the next caretakers of the car, or it will be their responsibility to sell it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THEN AND NOW: The Paxton in 2010 and, above left, in Road & Track in 1957. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL STENQUIST) (AU1)
TOP DOWN: A period promotional photo of the Paxton Phoenix with its hardtop stowed behind the cabin. At left, some details of the interior were similar to features seen in boats done by the car's designer, Brooks Stevens. (PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF MYRON VERNIS)
 DRY RUN: In its current form, the Paxton is powered by a 4-cylinder aircooled engine from a Porsche 356. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL STENQUIST) (AU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); SPORTS CARS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (91%) ARIZONA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011



461 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 6076 words

HEADLINE: 'People Have Been Looking For This For 100 Years'

BYLINE: By GARY WOLF

 BODY:
When I first met Shawn Ryan and Cathy Wood, in 2005, they were living with their two young children in a small cabin outside Dawson City, at the northernmost end of the paved road system in Canada's Yukon Territory. It was a beautiful site in the summertime, with clear water lapping the banks of the Klondike River and the sky still bright at midnight. But the sun hit their roof for the last time each year in early December and didn't show up again for six weeks. Temperatures in the dead of winter could reach 50 below zero. Wood sometimes feared that their children would freeze. Back then Ryan and Wood already knew they had found gold, but they didn't have proof. 
Recently, I went to see them again in their new home in Whitehorse, the territorial capital, and I sat with Ryan one night as he talked business over the phone. His right arm was stretched around the back of his head, holding his BlackBerry to his left ear. ''Those guys were at 6 cents a share last year, now they are over a buck, and they got nothing,'' he said. ''When you look at it, it's like a hundred claims.'' The shares Ryan was talking about belonged to a mineral-exploration company, one of his many competitors. The claims are mining claims, a government license to extract minerals from a 50-acre patch of wilderness. To Ryan, a hundred claims is pathetic. He and Wood own more than 35,000 claims. ''We just passed Luxembourg, and over the summer we'll be the size of Samoa,'' he continued, describing just one of his projects. Credible estimates of the amount of gold still buried in his properties run to the billions of dollars.
Ryan is the king of a new Yukon gold rush, the biggest since the legendary Klondike stampede a century ago. Behind this stampede is the rising price of gold, and behind this price is fear. As the Federal Reserve keeps interest rates very low to stimulate the economy, gold bugs make nightmarish predictions that loose money and a huge federal deficit will crush the value of the dollar and bring ruinous inflation. Gold holds its value when national currencies collapse and is easily imported and universally traded. It feels like the perfect investment for the apocalypse. A few weeks ago, gold passed $1,500 an ounce, an astonishing level. George Soros warned of a bubble back when gold was barely over $1,000. Glenn Beck cried that the run was just beginning: just wait until the United States is bankrupt and the real trouble starts. Gold bulls talk of $2,000 gold, $5,000 gold, even $10,000 gold. But 10 years ago, when Ryan made his first discoveries, nobody cared at all.
Ryan has been in the woods his whole life. At age 15, he was snaring foxes, martens and mink near Timmins, Ontario, where his father worked in a mine. Trapping in Canada is regulated through licenses called trap lines, and Ryan didn't have a trap line of his own, he just went where he pleased. This is called poaching, and eventually he was caught. Instead of turning him in, the trapper he was poaching from put him to work. Ryan would skin animals until midnight, then go to school without bathing. Looking back, he understands why he was socially isolated. In his 20s, Ryan came west to work a trap line of his own in the sparsely populated expanse of the Yukon, but his plan changed when he learned about mushrooms.
Twenty years ago there was a kind of gold rush in mushrooms that enticed itinerant pickers to make a long circuit through British Columbia, Alaska and the Yukon, collecting chanterelles, matsutakes and morels. The market was driven by demand in Paris and Tokyo, and brokers built a network of little buying stations wherever mushrooms were fruiting. It was cash on the ground, and the pickers taunted one another with stories of thousand-dollar days. Ryan eventually settled near Dawson, once the roaring center of the Klondike gold fields, now a community of about 2,000 people surrounded by wilderness and close to good morel-picking territory.
Ryan met Wood in 1992 at the height of the mushroom season. He was down in Whitehorse shopping for supplies when he noticed a young woman standing outdoors in spangled tights selling bundles of sage. Wood, who was from New Brunswick, had been working for a Toronto bank, but she didn't like it. After she quit, she took her savings and rode across the continent on a motorcycle. By the time she got to Whitehorse, her cash was gone. When Ryan walked up, she was reorganizing the last of the sage into smaller packets so she wouldn't run out of stock before something else turned up. He was a striking person, compact and strong, with hair braided nearly to his waist. And he had a good thing going: the banks of the White River should be thick with morels. Did she want to come pick with him?
From then on they were a team. The mushroom market was extremely volatile, and they were both hard workers who liked to take risks. The biggest challenge for a picker is finding something to pick; but the second biggest problem is transport. There may be carpets of morels fruiting in the bush, but after you pick them you have to walk out again, with 70 or 80 pounds of fragile fungus on your back, through swamps foggy with mosquitoes and hillsides piled with downed trees. Ryan was known as a high roller, because he would use the accumulated cash from his latest bonanza to make bold bets on the next one: organizing a system of backwoods mushroom drying and river conveyance, for instance, or recruiting a crew to cut a trail for all-terrain vehicles. One season, he and Wood picked morels worth tens of thousands of dollars, but ended the year broke after crashing a used helicopter they purchased with all of the money they made.
It is tough to be penniless in Dawson in the winter. Wood cleaned some houses and served as court bailiff when the judge came to town, but in February 1993, they were down to their last $5. At the employment center, Wood saw a notice for a job removing the snow from the roof of Diamond Tooth Gerties, the local casino, which opened for a brief winter season coinciding with a dog-sled race. The job was usually taken on by a team of local residents for thousands of dollars. Wood bid 500. Townspeople came out to see how the low bidders were going to do it. She and Ryan cleared the edges of the roof with shovels, then Ryan climbed to the top and jumped up and down like a monkey. Gravity did the rest. The expressions of surprise on the faces of the onlookers made Wood laugh. People in Dawson had to acknowledge that for people at the bottom of the status hierarchy -- and there aren't many rungs beneath mushroom picker -- they had some unmistakable gifts.
How could they not think about gold? Fortunes had been taken from the streams near Dawson City during the Klondike stampede. Little stretches of trickling water sometimes held millions of ounces of gold. What tormented the imagination was not just the breathtaking richness of the creeks but the decades of failure that followed. Generations of miners tried to find the mother lode, that hidden, hard-rock channel of mineral wealth whose eroding edges had supposedly poured its gold into the gravel. Nobody succeeded. In fact there is very little exposed rock around Dawson. A layer of dirt many feet thick is piled on top of the bedrock, and most of the ground is frozen all year long. After years of picking, Ryan knew the challenges of the terrain as well as anybody. This struck him as an advantage; it meant less competition.
To minimize their cash outlay, Wood and Ryan moved into an abandoned miner's shack. Their new home was made of tin, and it had neither running water nor electricity. Ryan spent winter nights by the wood stove reading old mining journals. In the summer, he gathered rocks and drove them down to Whitehorse to show to Mike Burke, a government geologist. Burke enjoyed it when prospectors came by. They would stand in the parking lot, scratch at the rocks with their knives, talk. Burke asked questions about what Ryan was seeing, drew him out and set him off again full of optimism and clues.
It was part of Burke's job to keep Ryan looking. To govern a land, population is required, and in the Yukon, in which nearly 200,000 square miles are occupied by 35,000 residents, persuading the citizens not to leave takes cash. The territorial budget is over a billion Canadian dollars, and among the line items is a program to support prospectors. Ryan would develop his ideas, and Wood would fill out grant-application forms longhand. When spring came they would have a little money to spend walking the bush, turning over rocks, collecting plastic bags full of dirt to sample the soil. The money quickly spread around town: on hardware, on fuel, on air transport. How much faith was there that the ideas contained in those prospecting grants were going to lead to a gold mine? Nobody even pretended to have much. Even the prospectors were skeptical. They could talk with conviction only about their own schemes. In regard to their rivals their realism was severe.
Burke helped Ryan get a better view of how the exploration industry worked on a global scale. A handful of companies -- ''majors'' -- run the active mines and control the worldwide market. Majors are listed on the big stock exchanges, and they have nondescript names: BHP Billiton, Vale, Barrick, Rio Tinto. Meanwhile, thousands of smaller exploration companies -- ''juniors'' -- raise funds and chase ideas. Juniors are essential to the majors because they do much of the initial work in the exploration industry: sampling the soil, digging trenches, publicizing promising geological results. Publicity is key, because juniors raise money by selling their shares on penny-stock markets, like the TSX Venture Exchange in Toronto. Every hopeful glimmer can cause shares to rise, and when shares are under $1, a jump of a few pennies is a handsome return. Juniors are free to have aggressive names: Monster Mining, Bling Capital, Northern Tiger. They are striving to be noticed.
At the very bottom of this opaque and volatile market are mining claims like the ones Ryan was staking when he walked around the bush near Dawson, pounding wooden four-by-fours into the earth, sometimes attached to a steel rod if the ground was too hard penetrate. These stakes gave him an exclusive right to extract minerals. But if he didn't work on the claim, or pay an additional fee, his rights would expire over time. Typically, prospectors support themselves by optioning claims to juniors in exchange for yearly cash payments and thousands of shares of penny stock.
All through the 1990s, Wood and Ryan made more money picking mushrooms than optioning claims. They were still learning how to prospect, of course, but there was a bigger problem. People weren't interested in gold. As long ago as 1924, the economist John Maynard Keynes called the gold standard ''a barbarous relic,'' and by the turn of the millennium central bankers everywhere agreed with him. Gold still had value as jewelry, of course, but as an investment it was purely for rubes. Stocks went up; gold went nowhere. In the Yukon, the aviation companies were struggling, and with few big mining companies around, the government geologists had time to work with small-timers. ''It got down to the core people,'' Burke recalls. ''I have pictures of company presidents out there under a tarp, getting their hands dirty, just to keep their claims in good standing.''
To Ryan, the notion that gold wasn't worth looking for was absurd. The market might profess disinterest, but this was cash in the ground. His closest friend, Antoine Deschenes, a rail-thin, 6-foot-4 Quebecois, had an idea. ''In the winter the Yukon runs clear,'' he said.
The significance of his insight is hard to appreciate without a bit of background. The gold of the Klondike rush was placer gold, found at the bottom of creeks and streams. Deschenes imagined that some of this gold had, during tens of millions of years of erosion, traveled all the way down the Klondike into the Yukon River. At Dawson, the Yukon is opaque from mixing with the water of the silt-laden White River. But in the winter the White is frozen solid. Therefore, the Yukon runs clear, and a daring prospector could dive in and find the riches he sought just lying there, in plain sight.
Ryan knew that Deschenes's plan was madness. The Yukon is covered in winter by eight feet of ice, under which is another eight feet of slush. If the idea of placer gold in the Yukon had any merit, it could be investigated cautiously, through careful sampling of the gravel. But Deschenes had gold fever, a latter-day version of the disease afflicting the original Klondike stampeders, many of whom ruined themselves, or perished, on their thoughtless dash north. We remember the fortunes taken from the Klondike at the turn of the century, but for most people, the journey to Dawson earned them nothing but suffering.
Deschenes would not listen to reason. He took scuba lessons, bought a tank, a wet suit and a cheap face mask from Canadian Tire. He chopped a hole in the ice with an ax and a chain saw, inserted a cable to the river bottom to keep him from drifting downstream, tied a rope to his waist and jumped in.
He came back empty-handed and asked Ryan to help. Ryan didn't want Deschenes out there on his own. On the other hand, standing on the frozen surface of the Yukon and holding a rope attached to your best friend implies a willingness to go in after him. Their daughter Cheyenne was 4 years old; their son Callum was just 2. As Wood and Ryan discussed Deschenes's dangerous obsession, she asked Ryan a hard question: if something terrible happened, could he live knowing that he had been standing up there holding the rope? On Feb. 22, 2001, when Deschenes went out for his third dive, Ryan was in the bush far away.
Later he heard that the rescue divers from the Royal Canadian Mounted Police actually caught a glimpse of Deschenes's body stuck in the slush. But they couldn't reach him on the first try and had to give up when the search became too perilous. The Yukon appears calm at the surface, but its flow is powerful, running more than 2,000 miles before emptying into the Bering Sea. Deschenes's body was never found.
By this time, Ryan and Wood no longer lived in their tin shack. Wood had had enough: all four of them sleeping in the same bed, only one table to sit at. A Dawson old-timer sold her two 20-by-24-foot cabins on credit, and one day he came by and helped her winch them together while Ryan was out in the woods. With the kids hanging around, banging hammers and pretending to help, Wood and some friends moved the possessions, and she scheduled a utility hook up. When Ryan came back, he was angry. Now they were on the grid. Now they would have bills. He threatened to quit prospecting. He promised to become a baker and get fat. ''He was grumpy for a long time,'' Wood says, ''but that move was the key.'' Ryan plugged a computer into one of the outlets, downloaded government maps and began exploring the territory the way real geologists did it: using data, from above.
A new aerial magnetic-resonance survey of the Yukon had just been released, which gave important clues about the composition of the rocks underground. Ryan, who is a fast learner, identified a promising spot about 30 miles from Dawson. He staked a few claims and told Wood he wanted to do a large soil-sampling project to see what they really had. After nine years of mushroom picking, their savings totaled 3,000 Canadian dollars. This was just about what the project would cost.
''Go ahead,'' Wood said.
This made Ryan pause. His wife had always played the role of the reasonable partner, the anchor, the person holding the rope. But when he reflected on what they had done together -- running mushrooms down the rivers in a boat, living in a shack, crashing a helicopter, all the way back to jumping up and down on the roof at Gerties -- he started to wonder. ''You realize I'm going to spend all the money we have, right now,'' he said.
''Yes, I do.''
Holy crow, Ryan thought, maybe she's no better than me.
He called his claims ''the Lucky Joe.'' With Burke's help, Ryan optioned them to a junior mining company based in Vancouver, which turned around and offered them to Kennecott, owned by one of the biggest of the majors. The person Kennecott sent north to check out the claims struck everybody as unique. In a field in which the archetype is a large, taciturn white man, Ricardo Presnell was short, ebullient and black. He had a Ph.D. from the University of Utah, was the review editor of an important academic journal and had searched for minerals all over the world. A generous talker and an even more generous listener, he knew how to win the respect of prospectors. ''Hardly taller than me, and looked up to by everybody,'' Wood said.
Presnell and Ryan camped out together for weeks at a time while doing research on the Lucky Joe. Ryan was already using soil samples to give him clues about where to find gold, but Presnell introduced him to advanced mapping software and showed him how to tell his stories on a grand scale. The goal, after all, was not to pack a few hundred ounces of gold out of the bush in a satchel but to locate deposits big enough to support investment in a mine. That meant a billion-dollar deposit, minimum. The two of them talked endlessly about sampling methods, about ''quality work,'' about the Yukon's unique geological history. A modern prospector is selling hope, backed up by some fancy colored maps. But it couldn't be pure hocus-pocus. The game was one of statistical probabilities, backed by reliable data that geologists like Presnell could put a fair price on.
After Kennecott bought the Lucky Joe, Ryan grabbed his payout and spent it all chasing more gold. ''Double-or-Nothing,'' Burke called him. But Ryan was not just gambling. He was exploring systematically, doing thousands of soil samples a year. In the early 1900s, a government geologist reported a rumor of a high-grade specimen of gold-bearing quartz in hills near the White River. Something like this isn't easily forgotten, but because nobody was able to find the rock again, the story was eventually relinquished as fantasy. Walking above the White, where his soil data looked good, Ryan caught sight of a low outcropping of quartz. Shortly after he got out of the bush, he called Burke, and they hiked back in together with a stick of dynamite. It was a clear fall day and 23 degrees. Fog had frozen on the branches, and the sound going through the woods was like breaking dishes. Ryan stuck the dynamite in a crack.
''That blowed up good,'' Burke said.
Ryan took out his hand-lens and walked back through the snow.
''Mike, we got a hole in one,'' Burke heard him say. In many deposits, even good ones, the gold is so crushed and intermixed with rock that it can't be seen. Burke joined him at the rock face and took a look for himself. There, on the freshened face of the rock, were visible flecks of gold.
''Shawn, people have been looking for this for a hundred years,'' he said.
In the two years following the discovery of gold on the White, Ryan and Wood sold a dozen options. The price of gold was rising steadily. Every few months there was a new high. In 2005, gold was more than $400 an ounce. Within a year it would pass $600. Now the juniors could raise more money. To supply them with claims, Ryan developed his own exploration technique. He knew the juniors had a rule of thumb: they wanted to see soil samples that contained gold at 50 parts per billion. This had always bothered him, because the standard was so arbitrary. What was important was not the soil, but the bedrock under the soil, and what ought to matter was not the absolute amount of gold in any particular sample, but the existence of an anomaly in relation to the background level. ''It's like Sasquatch tracks,'' Ryan argued. Their mere existence should be interesting, even if the imprint is faint. Ryan's proof was admirably simple: he just dug deeper. When soil samples taken at the conventional depth showed only a slight uptick, he enlarged the hole until he got numbers that looked good on a PowerPoint slide. This got the juniors interested.
Ryan and Wood were high rollers again. All day long young men in their employ came and went. They had 15 workers in the summer of 2005; some were line cutters, so called because they hacked their way through thickets and brambles; others were busy sampling the soil. Wood packed meals for them, chatted with them, collected the gossip. She didn't allow shoes in the house, and because none of the workers wanted to unlace their boots, they jostled and piled up around the front door of the cabin, giving the impression of a looming masculine thundercloud hovering just outside the domestic perimeter. Then they would take off in a helicopter that came and went from the staging area near their front door. Ryan loved being airborne. He knew what it was like to crawl along the ground.
I stayed with the family for a week in June 2005 while reporting a story about the Yukon mushroom trade, about which they knew everything. But their minds were on gold. One night I listened to them argue. A few hours earlier they finalized an option deal on some new claims that gave them a chunk of shares worth 130,000 Canadian dollars. Their little galley kitchen was a mess. Wood's desk was piled high with paperwork; Ryan's was littered with GPS receivers, technical manuals and unopened brochures. They were doing well, at least temporarily, but their expenses were high because Ryan kept staking. He found it hard to evaluate where they stood. Sometimes he felt very rich. After all, he flew in a helicopter almost every single day. ''I got accounts all over town,'' he said. ''I need a bag of chips, I just go to the store.''
''Maybe you don't realize you have to pay these accounts,'' Wood said.
''A mine solves all the problems,'' Ryan answered.
Prospectors receive a royalty on the total amount of gold taken from a mine. But the path to a mine was hard to see from where they stood. They had optioned the White River gold claims to a Vancouver speculator named Donald Gee, who ran many small companies with prospects in gold, uranium and oil. If these companies had little to show in terms of actual discoveries, at least the stocks ran up and down with minimal legal friction; there were no spectacular ascents or lawsuit-provoking crashes. Gee put together a colorful group of investors, including an English polo fanatic and a fellow trader who previously had been sanctioned by regulators, and created a company called Madalena Ventures, through which he optioned Ryan's claims. But over time his payments came more slowly and he seemed disengaged from the business of exploration.
Now Ryan was proposing to stop prospecting temporarily and send a crew to pick mushrooms instead. Morels were thick again along the banks of the White. He was so eager to apply himself to the old mushroom problems that Wood couldn't bring herself to stand in his way. She enjoyed picking, too. Still, the things he was saying about the profits they would earn from the mushrooms made no sense. The two of them fought like singers in an operetta, and at the start of every other sentence, Ryan placed his favorite exclamation, that antique northern ''aye'' that was his assertion of authority, his cry of negation, his tool of interruption, his warning.
''Cath, we just did the calculations.''
''We? Who's we?''
''There's no way we're getting less than $60,000.''
''That's gross! You always take the gross figure!''
He searched around for his calculations but he couldn't put his hands on them.
''Oh, they've disappeared,'' Wood said. ''They're gone! You could be the municipal government of Dawson, the way you handle your accounts.''
He looked happy to be arguing with his wife.
''Aye, she's asking me how many jugs of gas I'm going to use for the boat when I'm here trying to figure out how many thousands of dollars we're going to make,'' he said.
Things often got to this point.
''What is wrong with you?'' Wood would ask him. ''Did you not get enough puzzles to solve as a child?''
But here was the real problem: How was he to profit when the puzzle was solved? He had already found miraculous amounts of gold, but that didn't mean he had won the game. Mushrooms and gold were strangely similar when it came to getting paid. A mushroom is the most perishable commodity, gold is the least, but the value of both is subject to uncertainty. The price you got for your mushrooms depended on the mood of the buyer under his tarp at the end of a dirt road and on the orders he got from his boss in Vancouver and on economic conditions in France. And as for gold; well, his claims so far had been good enough only for penny-stock operators like Donald Gee. Ryan was a hard man to depress, but that spring he had doubts. Were the gifts of nature real or were they speculators' props? Wood knew his scheme to turn line cutters into mushroom pickers was economically unsound. Still, she understood the need it served. Ryan wanted to live like a frontier hero; drying thousands of pounds of morels and carrying them down to Dawson in his boat was a raw, old-fashioned triumph. But Wood had another thought. Maybe some of the key pieces to their puzzle weren't in the Yukon at all.
Prospectors. They come into your office with the shiniest rock they can put their hands on and crow they've struck gold. Rob McLeod would laugh if it weren't so sad. But when McLeod, who ran a junior in Vancouver called Full Metal Minerals, took a call from a woman in Dawson City who wanted to set up a meeting, he knew quickly she wasn't true to type. Wood told him she had multiple claim blocks in the region, each with an extensive packet of geological data, and she wanted him to meet her husband. Every winter there is a giant mining convention in Toronto. There, in a quiet room away from the frenzied exhibit floor, the drunken parties and the aggressive lying, McLeod looked over the soil-sampling data from the White. The data was thorough and precise. It amazed him to see it just sitting there, as it had for a century: 5 miles by 2 miles of anomalous minerals, surrounded by creeks that had been full of placer gold. There was no way to be sure without further exploration, but McLeod wanted those claims.
''No,'' Wood said when they spoke by phone. ''I'm looking for a tighter shell.'' For two years she had been training herself in the complexities of the junior market; buying and selling penny stocks, reading up on directors and executives; analyzing capital structures. Seeing beneath the surface of the exploration industry, with its deceptive brochures and corrupt stock analysts, became her job. She knew she didn't want another partner like Donald Gee. Madalena Ventures had owned the right to all the gold on Ryan's claims on the White, but Gee let it slip from his hands when he reorganized the company, let go of the claims and moved on. (Gee did not respond to questions.)
Wood told McLeod that she wanted to work with a new junior, one that hadn't yet made any other investments and was therefore exclusively devoted to Ryan's new discoveries. Did he know of anybody else who might be interested? He did: an Australian geologist named Adrian Fleming had just started Underworld Resources on the TSX Venture Exchange. McLeod was a director. Their plan was to pursue mineral exploration in New Zealand and Australia, but when Fleming saw the White, he changed his mind. Wood obtained a high price: in the first year of the deal, she took 500,000 shares of Underworld's stock, a 4 percent royalty and 150,000 Canadian dollars as a cash advance. In 2008, they started to drill. At the first site they were disappointed. They moved the drill and tried again. The hollow steel tube, whose cutting edge was lined with diamond teeth, chewed through the earth. When it came up, the rocks in the tube were specked with gold. They drilled 21 holes that year and a hundred in 2009, trying to pin down exactly how big the strike was. Rumors of what was happening up north started to bounce around certain online bulletin boards, where penny-stock gamblers noticed that new companies were staking claims all around the Underworld discovery, hoping to capitalize on the excitement.
At Wood and Ryan's cabin in Dawson, the roar of air transport was constant. Ryan was flying over a growing empire with confidence. Yet his latest assertion was so hard to believe that even Fleming, who had spent more than $10 million proving the deposits on the White, found it hard to credit. Ryan told him there was more than one mother lode.
The holes Underworld was drilling on the White showed a thick, concentrated deposit: a million and a half ounces in one small zone. This was not a long quartz vein, as in the California gold fields, but a well-defined pocket, a bubble of gold. Had it been closer to a creek, it would have all washed down and left nothing behind. Ryan was building evidence of a second huge deposit on a ridge only 20 miles away, but when Fleming looked at the data, he waved it off.
On some level, Ryan understood why he had little credibility. ''By any statistical measure, I'm not supposed to find even one,'' he admitted. ''So what are the chances I'm going to find two?'' Ryan optioned the claims to a different junior, and when they started drilling, they struck gold, too. Ryan couldn't help rubbing it in: ''Aye, now they're saying: 'What do these guys have in common? Wait a second, maybe it's Shawn.' ''
Fleming came to realize that Ryan had something special. This was not about luck. If Ryan's highly personal mix of craft, science and logistical expertise found two big deposits, there was no reason there couldn't be more. Of course, a mining company whose stock is traded in the public markets can't rely entirely on a prospector with only a high-school education to explain its exploration technique. Fleming wanted a scientist on the team, so that summer he called Ricardo Presnell back to the territory.
It was a happy reunion. Presnell's goal was to be the chief geologist of a worldwide exploration company, and in late 2009, with gold at more than $1,000 an ounce, it looked as if Underworld might turn out to be more than the typical mining junior. ''You're either creating a staking rush or chasing one,'' Ryan said. With Presnell's science, Wood's realism, Fleming's worldliness and Ryan's methodological genius, not to mention a billion dollars of gold in the ground, perhaps they could build something strong enough to hold its shape in the swell of the market.
They didn't get the chance. In December, Fleming received a call from Kinross Gold -- a Toronto-based major -- informing him that Kinross intended to buy Underworld. Fleming managed to stall, but not for long. Underworld's stock had risen from 15 Canadian cents to 2 Canadian dollars a share on the TSX Venture Exchange. But it was still a minnow; Kinross was a $10 billion corporation and could easily manage a takeover.
For a little while Fleming tried to keep their idea alive. We'll just do another company, he thought. The others were eager to discuss it. ''See you in a week,'' Presnell said. Skiing a few days later in Big Cottonwood Canyon, near Salt Lake City, Presnell was making his classic big-stance telemark turns when a giant slab of snow broke loose and swept him into a grove of trees. He was dead when the rescuers found him.
Gold is what people turn to when the world looks as if it's falling apart. It is pitched as an indestructible physical asset, a form of currency invulnerable to destruction or government manipulation. But a moment's thought establishes the impracticality of physical gold as a store of personal wealth: even small pieces of it are too valuable for many purposes, it's vulnerable to theft and requires weighing to prove its value. Even at the height of its monetary use in the 19th century, gold was used mainly to secure the credit of governments and banks.
Most people who turn to gold don't store ingots in a vault, but trade stocks whose price is linked to gold: exchange-traded gold funds or the shares of mining companies. This makes them players in the market and vulnerable to mania.
With the well-publicized Kinross takeover of Underworld -- worth nearly 140 million Canadian dollars, with Ryan and Wood taking about $6 million for themselves -- the great staking rush in the Yukon started in earnest. The slightest hint of a mineral anomaly within 300 miles of Ryan's discoveries on the White River was now exciting enough to float a junior. Ryan and Wood were still staking, chasing new ideas, and it was easy for Wood to unload options, but it took a lot of patience to work with some of the juniors who optioned them. Doing the next stage of exploration demanded expertise. Sometimes they didn't even have a geologist on the payroll and could barely handle what they had bought.
In late April of this year, Ryan and Wood combined all the Yukon claims that weren't under contract already, a total of more than 1,300 square miles, and put them into a new partnership that included Ned Goodman, a legendary investor in Toronto. In exchange they received more than 20 million Canadian dollars in cash and stock and as much exploration backing as they could handle. The new company is called Ryan Gold. Ryan wants access to as much money as possible this summer, because capital for gold prospecting will never again in his lifetime be so readily available and, besides, within a few years the territory will be crowded with claims. ''It's a land-grab game now,'' he said, as we sat and talked in Mike Burke's living room in Whitehorse. Burke recently quit his government job. He now works for a junior called Golden Predator. He has joined the gold rush, too.
Ryan guesses that there will be more than 140 exploration companies coming north this summer, but he has the jump on them. He has been staking all winter, running elaborate logistical operations with a fixed-wing aircraft on skis, remote fuel depots and crews in winter camps for a week at a time. This is just a preview of what is coming when the weather improves. His goal is to complete 150,000 samples. That's a ton of earth every day in small paper bags. The limiting factor, as always, is air transport. ''Here's how I'd like to do it,'' he says. ''A blimp.''
Eventually gold will crash again. In the back of his mind, Ryan is already thinking about other problems to solve. Mines can acidify the water around them; in one poorly managed mine in the Yukon, the cost of dealing with toxic contamination might prove greater than the value of all the minerals that ever came out of it. But there are places in Canada where acidic soils have healthy plants growing on them. This is due, Ryan surmises, to the evolutionary adaptation of the fungus they live among. ''You have to go and look for these mushrooms,'' he says. ''You have to go mushroom hunting!''
In the meantime, Wood wonders where their people are going to sleep. Waves of exploration workers are about to pour into town, and nobody is quite prepared for them. The rent on a dismal room in Dawson, with a bathroom down the hall, has already gone up to 600 Canadian dollars a month, and the season hasn't started. Dawson was living largely off government handouts and a trickle of tourism left over from the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Klondike stampede. Now even the remnant nonconformists who hung on during the lean years are making bank.
Wood often thinks back on that anniversary celebration, in 1998. There were so many residents in Dawson that there was a tent city by the river. The U.S. dollar was strong, making it easy for American tourists, and there were no passport checks at the border. She was pregnant with Callum, and at midnight on Canada Day she danced with friends in the shadow of the Dome, a little mountain against which Dawson rises. The mushroom scene was still booming. Then things changed. Terrorists attacked the World Trade Center, and as the borders got tighter and fuel prices rose, the mushroom-picking circuit collapsed. Late that winter, Ryan staked the Lucky Joe. His timing could not have been better. Gold is countercyclical to happiness. Outside the territory, fear was making a comeback, and the price had already started to rise.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A rock sample from one of Shawn Ryan's first gold discoveries in the Yukon. (MM42)
Gold Stars: Shawn Ryan and Cathy Wood started by picking mushrooms together and now control vast mining claims in the Yukon. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FINLAY MACKAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM44)
 End of the Road: Cathy Wood and her daughter, Cheyenne, in 1999. The family lived in a tin shack without electricity for years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CATHY WOOD) (MM46) MAP (MM45) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); CURRENCIES (85%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); MINERAL LEASES (74%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (74%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); MINES & MINING (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); PRICE INCREASES (61%); LICENSES & PERMITS (50%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (55%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (55%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YUKON TERRITORY, CANADA (94%) CANADA (94%); SAMOA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



462 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION NEW JERSEY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Perhaps Not So 'Grim' Anymore

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
BIG news in the virtual neighborhood: ''Grim'' bought a house.
For the last six years, James A. Bednar -- or ''Grim,'' as he is known in the blogosphere -- has served as a passionate advocate of cool wariness about New Jersey real estate. Through his posts on njrereport.com, Mr. Bednar convened a community of skeptics, scoffers and scavengers for ''true value'' during times of spiraling prices -- first up, then down.
Most regulars on the blog appear to have remained renters through at least one full housing market cycle, depending on how one measures the cycling. As did Mr. Bednar. 
But on the morning of April 29, as Grim, he abruptly posted the announcement that he and his wife, Jayne, were closing on a three-bedroom ranch in Wayne. ''Has J. B. lost his mind?'' asked Grim about himself.
There were 217 quick responses. ''Now I've heard everything,'' read one. Others asked whether Mr. Bednar would disband the blog, for which he is unpaid (definitely not, he said), and whether prices had now hit bottom (he did not answer that). But most expressed warm, if teasing, congratulations.
''I'm sure with your knowledge of the market you are getting a real good deal,'' read a post from ''Mikeinwaiting.'' ''As far as bottoms go, well, you take your chances.''
Mr. Bednar, who says he usually blogs in the wee hours, has had a full-time job as a software technician since graduating from college during the dot-com boom of the early 2000s. He withheld the gritty details of his purchase from the blog. But in an interview, he readily gave them up, saying that since he was in the habit of exposing price information about other peoples' houses, it would be hypocritical to do otherwise: purchase price $435,000, list price $479,000 -- meaning that the Bednars negotiated a 9 percent discount.
Mr. Bednar said he had followed his own oft-repeated advice to ''buy the ugliest house on the street,'' and would soon immerse himself in renovation work, installing a new kitchen and baths. ''We are picky about fixtures,'' he said, adding that he had been stockpiling items like toilets, sinks and knobs in the garage at his rented place in Clifton.
Mr. Bednar acted as his own Realtor in the transaction; he received his license in 2005, after getting burned in a couple of Montclair bidding wars and deciding he wanted inside information on the ''comps'' -- listing and sales prices on comparable homes in a particular area -- that only brokers and agents were privy to at the time.
His blog was one of the first in the state to share such information, and it is one of a very few here that retain loyal followings now that Web sites like Zillow and Trulia make sales data available.
''Most of the other New Jersey-specific blogs -- like Kannekt in Hoboken/Jersey City -- seemed to get taken over by Realtors as vehicles for their puffery, in my opinion,'' said Jordan S. Celkupa, a personal finance planner in Red Bank, who is a longtime renter and a pillar of the community at njrereport.com.
Grim has maintained a distinctive focus, Mr. Celkupa said -- even after becoming a working agent himself last fall, making clients of several people who had come to know him through the blog. (''They asked me if I would,'' said Mr. Bednar, who does not advertise his services. ''So now it's a little sideline job.'')
To feed the blog, he developed search avatars that scour news sites for any reports of negative housing trends -- even if they only hint at doom or gloom. He publishes excerpts, adds his own sardonic commentary, and invites all comers to do the same.
And they do -- flaming back and forth at one another as well as at Grim.
After he posted an article from The Asbury Park Press last weekend about the diminished sales pace and prices in the state so far in 2011, ''Jets12'' wrote: ''It's valueless to speak to N.J. real estate in a monolithic context. We live in a micromarket reality (regionally and price-bracket-wise),'' and quoted statistics from Trulia to the effect that prices were up 26 percent in the town of River Edge, while having declined 20 percent in South Orange.
''Neanderthal Economist'' fired back, ''Are you really basing your conclusion on a Web site fraught with bias, and a calculation that compares average sold price to average asking on two different housing stocks in two different periods?''
Reeves Hughes, a real estate broker in Branchburg who uses his nickname ''Chip'' on the site, opined that right now ''no blanket statements'' about the market are appropriate. Contacted by phone, Mr. Hughes said that went for the implications of Grim's purchase as well.
''He did what made sense in his situation,'' he said of Mr. Bednar. ''You should only make a move now if you first understand the benefit to be purely ownership, shelter and enjoyment of a lifestyle -- because there is not likely to be any real gain in value for perhaps seven or eight years.''
Mr. Hughes, who concedes to having once ''thought like a traditional Realtor,'' said he had long ago became a ''Grim-style'' realist about the contortions of real and perceived home values in a volatile marketplace.
At his new house in Wayne, Mr. Bednar said he had his work cut out for him, starting with installing a fence around the yard for his wife's two dogs. There are a couple of contractors in his family who will help do the renovation work, he said, but he will shoulder the main responsibility.
His absence won't go unnoticed in the ''neighborhood.'' When he didn't post for a few hours on the afternoon he spent at the house closing, someone was quick to remark: ''Geeeez. We lost him to home repairs already!!!''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HOMEOWNERS: James A. Bednar and his wife, Jayne, are in the throes of renovating their first home, in Wayne. Mr. Bednar, a blogger, has been a longtime public skeptic of the real estate market. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN STAVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



463 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; VOWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Donatella Arpaia and Allan Stewart

BYLINE: By ANNA JANE GROSSMAN

 BODY:
IN early 2010, Dr. Allan Stewart, a cardiac surgeon, was challenged by a patient on whom he had operated the previous year, to sign up for the New York City Triathlon. The doctor broke two ribs while training, but soldiered on, knowing his patient had overcome a much bigger obstacle.
The day before the triathlon, while looking out at the sea of Nike-and-neoprene clad jocks who had gathered at a related health and fitness expo, he suddenly found himself distracted by a curvy blonde in heels.
''She had this aura,'' said Dr. Stewart, 41. And he needed an introduction. So he looked down at his BlackBerry, feigned technological absorption, and walked straight into her. 
She said her name was ''D.'' He tried to offer advice on triathlons but admitted that he hadn't actually completed one yet. She wouldn't give her phone number. Instead, she proffered an e-mail address that contained no personal information.
He finished the race the next day, just 30 minutes behind his patient. The next challenge on his agenda? That leggy blonde.
Donatella Arpaia had gone to the expo looking for a way to trim down after weeks in Los Angeles shooting ''The Next Iron Chef,'' on which she is a judge. She'd just been through a breakup and had spent time in California reflecting on what she wanted.
''I was speaking to a friend who said: 'You have everything. You're beautiful, you're this, you're that. If you aren't with the right person, it's only because that's what you're choosing,' '' she said.
''I've always been a very driven businesswoman,'' said Ms. Arpaia, 39, who is the proprietor of Mia Dona and Donatella, both Manhattan restaurants. ''But I've also always wanted to be married and have kids. I really thought a lot about what she said.''
Dr. Stewart e-mailed her, offering advice on a bike for her triathlon training. Though it crossed her mind that he might be some kind of stalker of reality TV show judges, his blue eyes had left a positive impression on her.
So ''D'' wrote back. After a few more exchanges, she let it slip that she was Italian and had written a cookbook. Dr. Stewart, who never cooked and knew little about restaurants, spent hours combing the Web for cookbook authors with ''D'' names.
He, too, withheld information. While noting that he hailed from a family of five children raised in North Arlington, N.J., he didn't offer that he was the director of the aortic surgery program at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia hospital, or that he was part of the team that operated on former President Bill Clinton's heart, or that one of his partners is Dr. Mehmet Oz.
Ms. Arpaia was born into her business. She and her siblings grew up on Long Island taking coats at the Woodmere restaurant their father, Lello Arpaia, ran.
''High-end dining is dying out,'' said Umberto Arpaia, her older brother, who has Cellini on East 54th Street. ''Kids want Chipotle.'' That's why Papa Arpaia, who now owns Fiorini on East 56th, insisted his daughters go to law school. Ms. Arpaia complied, joined a firm, and then persuaded her dad to open a restaurant with her.
They started Bellini in 1998. She would open several more restaurants before the 2008 recession, and some ruptured partnerships brought about the closing of Dona and the sale of her interest in David Burke & Donatella.
''Whether I make the wrong decision or the right one in my business, I'm always sure about it,'' Ms. Arpaia said. ''But my personal life has been the opposite -- totally tortured.''
So she wasn't so eager to go out on a date with Dr. Stewart. She canceled three times before agreeing to have a drink with him. ''What if I wasn't attracted to him?'' she said.
He told her about his career, which he decided upon after watching a heart transplant on ''Nova.'' ''The heart is such a storied organ,'' he said. ''It's encased in a cage and is the subject of so many poems and songs.''
But her heart was out of reach. She spent the whole date on her BlackBerry, he recalled.
That kind of indifference was probably just the siren call that he needed. Divorced since 2007, with two daughters, now ages 6 and 9, Dr. Stewart described the period that followed as ''living the dream,'' he said. ''Making money, dating. Another marriage was not on the agenda.''
He also was open to the unexpected: ''We're put into each other's lives for a reason. As secularly successful as I've been, to believe that's all there is, can make you a really selfish and horrible person to be around.''
Ms. Arpaia, who thought ''he was just some nerdy doctor,'' was taken aback, she said, upon learning ''he was dating, like 14 women!''
The restaurant business, she said, doesn't have that kind of turnaround. ''In my line of work, a lot of people settle. I didn't want to settle.''
On their early dates, she tried playing ''the girl,'' she said. When he took her to the restaurant Tao, she grew weary as they sat at the bar for an hour. ''Finally, I was like, 'Can I stop being the date now?' '' Showing her mettle, she waltzed over to the maitre d' and they were seated right away.
He saw it as an ''emasculating event,'' he said, and balked. ''Professional courtesy,'' she explained. ''Do you wait in line at the hospital?''
Things moved along briskly from there. She never slept at home after the third date. She gave him a copy of her cookbook, inscribed with the words: ''You take care of my heart, I'll take care of your stomach.''
''She's just so warm -- she's someone who will help anyone anytime,'' Dr. Stewart said. Behind her polished public image, he noted, she's also someone who likes to stay home watching a movie ''in a robe and ponytail.''
With him, she found she wasn't falling into the pattern of imagining taking ''qualities from this person and qualities from that person and jamming them into one,'' Mr. Potato Head style, she said. Ms. Arpaia added: ''There's not one thing I would change. He's my best friend.''
He asked her to marry him every morning for a month, before showing the seriousness of his intentions by hanging a diamond ring on their first Christmas tree. Ms. Arpaia went out and bought a Size 6 Monique Lhuillier wedding gown, only to find out a month later that she was pregnant.
On April 30, friends -- many of whom started out as his patients or her customers -- gathered for their wedding at the Plaza. Murmurs rose from the crowd as Ms. Arpaia headed down the aisle, looking radiant in the Lhuillier confection, which she had let out a bit. The Rev. Amandus J. Derr, the Lutheran pastor who married the couple, was soon joined by Rabbi Peter J. Rubinstein, a longtime customer of Ms. Arpaia's, who offered a wish that the couple's love keep them together even in moments of ''emergencies, be they culinary or cardiac.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A READING: The wedding couple enjoy listening to Giancarlo Crivelli.
 NEW YORK, APRIL 30: The bride, Donatella Arpaia, and her father, Lello Arpaia, wait for their cue to join the bridegroom, Dr. Allan Stewart, at the Plaza. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); BONE FRACTURES (77%); RESTAURANTS (70%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (66%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (63%); REALITY TELEVISION (60%); WRITERS (60%)

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (56%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (56%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



464 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Your So-Called Education

BYLINE: By RICHARD ARUM and JOSIPA ROKSA. 
Richard Arum, a professor of sociology and education at New York University, and Josipa Roksa, an assistant professor of sociology at the University of Virginia, are the authors of ''Academically Adrift: Limited Learning on College Campuses.''

 BODY:
COMMENCEMENT is a special time on college campuses: an occasion for students, families, faculty and administrators to come together to celebrate a job well done. And perhaps there is reason to be pleased. In recent surveys of college seniors, more than 90 percent report gaining subject-specific knowledge and developing the ability to think critically and analytically. Almost 9 out of 10 report that overall, they were satisfied with their collegiate experiences.
We would be happy to join in the celebrations if it weren't for our recent research, which raises doubts about the quality of undergraduate learning in the United States. Over four years, we followed the progress of several thousand students in more than two dozen diverse four-year colleges and universities. We found that large numbers of the students were making their way through college with minimal exposure to rigorous coursework, only a modest investment of effort and little or no meaningful improvement in skills like writing and reasoning. 
In a typical semester, for instance, 32 percent of the students did not take a single course with more than 40 pages of reading per week, and 50 percent did not take any course requiring more than 20 pages of writing over the semester. The average student spent only about 12 to 13 hours per week studying -- about half the time a full-time college student in 1960 spent studying, according to the labor economists Philip S. Babcock and Mindy S. Marks.
Not surprisingly, a large number of the students showed no significant progress on tests of critical thinking, complex reasoning and writing that were administered when they began college and then again at the ends of their sophomore and senior years. If the test that we used, the Collegiate Learning Assessment, were scaled on a traditional 0-to-100 point range, 45 percent of the students would not have demonstrated gains of even one point over the first two years of college, and 36 percent would not have shown such gains over four years of college.
Why is the overall quality of undergraduate learning so poor?
While some colleges are starved for resources, for many others it's not for lack of money. Even at those colleges where for the past several decades tuition has far outpaced the rate of inflation, students are taught by fewer full-time tenured faculty members while being looked after by a greatly expanded number of counselors who serve an array of social and personal needs. At the same time, many schools are investing in deluxe dormitory rooms, elaborate student centers and expensive gyms. Simply put: academic investments are a lower priority.
The situation reflects a larger cultural change in the relationship between students and colleges. The authority of educators has diminished, and students are increasingly thought of, by themselves and their colleges, as ''clients'' or ''consumers.'' When 18-year-olds are emboldened to see themselves in this manner, many look for ways to attain an educational credential effortlessly and comfortably. And they are catered to accordingly. The customer is always right.
Federal legislation has facilitated this shift. The funds from Pell Grants and subsidized loans, by being assigned to students to spend on academic institutions they have chosen rather than being packaged as institutional grants for colleges to dispense, have empowered students -- for good but also for ill. And expanded privacy protections have created obstacles for colleges in providing information on student performance to parents, undercutting a traditional check on student lassitude.
Fortunately, there are some relatively simple, practical steps that colleges and universities could take to address the problem. Too many institutions, for instance, rely primarily on student course evaluations to assess teaching. This creates perverse incentives for professors to demand little and give out good grades. (Indeed, the 36 percent of students in our study who reported spending five or fewer hours per week studying alone still had an average G.P.A. of 3.16.) On those commendable occasions when professors and academic departments do maintain rigor, they risk declines in student enrollments. And since resources are typically distributed based on enrollments, rigorous classes are likely to be canceled and rigorous programs shrunk. Distributing resources and rewards based on student learning instead of student satisfaction would help stop this race to the bottom.
Others involved in education can help, too. College trustees, instead of worrying primarily about institutional rankings and fiscal concerns, could hold administrators accountable for assessing and improving learning. Alumni as well as parents and students on college tours could ignore institutional facades and focus on educational substance. And the Department of Education could make available nationally representative longitudinal data on undergraduate learning outcomes for research purposes, as it has been doing for decades for primary and secondary education.
Most of all, we hope that during this commencement season, our faculty colleagues will pause to consider the state of undergraduate learning and our collective responsibility to increase academic rigor on our campuses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (73%); INFLATION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



465 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: The Paranoid Style

BYLINE: By JACOB HEILBRUNN. 
Jacob Heilbrunn is a regular contributor to the Book Review and a senior editor at The National Interest.

 BODY:
AMONG THE TRUTHERS
A Journey Through America's Growing Conspiracist Underground
By Jonathan Kay
340 pp. Harper/HarperCollins Publishers. $27.99
''Among the Truthers'' is a remarkable book, not least because its author, Jonathan Kay, appears to have emerged with his sanity intact after immersing himself for several years in the wilder precincts of conspiracy theories about everything from President Obama's birthplace to 9/11 to vaccines. Like a modern-day Gulliver, he has traveled widely and conducted numerous interviews to map what seems like every nook and cranny of the conspiracist universe. Yet Kay, an editor and columnist at the conservative Canadian newspaper The National Post, has not written a Swiftian satire on the foibles of humanity. Rather, he sounds alarms about what he depicts as a mounting paranoia inspired by an invisible and nefarious oligarchy.
Kay usefully cautions at the outset, ''Some conspiracies are very real.'' Nor is the conviction that secretive elites are manipulating the destiny of the world novel. On the contrary, Kay reminds us, the belief that coastal political elites, bankers and Ivy League intellectuals are conniving to victimize ordinary people has long been a staple on the fringes of American politics. Robert Welch, the founder of the John Birch Society, even claimed that Dwight Eisenhower's brother Milton was in cahoots with Moscow. 
But as Kay sees it, conspiracy thinking is now experiencing a dangerous uptick in popularity. The terrorist threat has replaced the Red menace, as 9/11 had nothing less than what Kay deems a ''seismic'' effect on America's ''collective intellect.'' He devotes much attention to the ''truther'' movement, which contends that the United States government perpetrated the terrorist attacks.
Some of Kay's most illuminating passages center not on what conspiracy theorists believe -- even to dignify it with the word ''theory'' is probably to grant them more legitimacy than they deserve -- but on why they are attracted to such tedious rubbish in the first place. He divides them into different camps, including the ''cranks'' and the ''firebrands.'' Cranks are often reacting to male midlife crises -- combating conspiracies, Kay says, offers a new sense of mission. Cranks, he adds, are frequently math teachers, computer scientists or investigative journalists.
A leading case, according to Kay, is David Ray Griffin, a former professor at the Claremont School of Theology who has devoted his retirement to writing no fewer than 11 books that examine each minute of the 9/11 timeline. Then there is Paul Zarembka, a professor of economics at the State University of New York, Buffalo, who has scrutinized ''such arcane subjects as the price of individual airline stocks in the run-up to 9/11, and the tail numbers of the hijacked 9/11 aircraft.'' And Barrie Zwicker, a mainstream Canadian journalist turned truther, insisted on interviewing Kay while Kay was interviewing him, hitting buttons on a chess clock to regulate the amount of time each had.
Once upon a time such people would most likely have operated in relative anonymity. But with the emergence of the Internet, Kay says, they have established their own cult followings, along with the sense of superiority that is created by seeming to enjoy direct access to what actually makes the world tick. Kay writes: ''Many true conspiracy theorists I've met don't even bother with Web surfing anymore. . . . From the very instant they first boot up their computer in the morning, their in-boxes comprise an unbroken catalog of outrage stories ideologically tailored to their pre-existing obsessions.'' As Kay sees it, the Enlightenment is itself at stake. His verdict could hardly be more categorical: ''It is the mark of an intellectually pathologized society that intellectuals and politicians will reject their opponents' realities.''
But is America really in such dire straits? Hardly. Kay's description sounds more reminiscent of Weimar Germany or other societies in a state of intellectual collapse than the habitual din and hubbub of American democracy. In concentrating so narrowly on truthers, Kay describes them superbly, but he may exaggerate their potential influence. He asserts but does not demonstrate that 9/11 ''has had far-reaching social, political and psychological consequences that have yet to be fully absorbed or understood.''
Then there is the problem of organization. At times, Kay's book can itself appear almost as convoluted as a conspiracy flowchart. He has a habit of hopscotching between topics and eras. It would also have been helpful had he drawn a clearer distinction between the muckraker, who exposes unpleasant truths, and the conspiracist, who weaves them into a fantastic plot aimed at deceiving the credulous.
Kay is forthright about chronicling loopi/ness on the right as well as the left. But he claims that the snobbish liberal media are at least partly culpable for the right's zaniness, because they don't treat its suspicions with more deference; this is special pleading. He also rehearses the chestnut that liberal intellectual skepticism has degenerated into nihilism, creating a relativistic world in which one opinion is as good as another. And he rather sweepingly writes that ''modern academics tend to romanticize the conspiracy theorist.''
Still, Kay ends on an admirable note. As his research progressed, he came to realize that his initial assumption that a distinct class of pathological crazies could be identified was mistaken. ''This realization,'' he writes, ''has taught me to be careful about my own ideological commitments. . . . It has made me more self-aware when I bend the rules of logic in the service of ideology or partisanship.'' In a book that often suggests the grown-ups are not all right, it's a refreshingly mature confession.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICHOLAS KAMM/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES (WASHINGTON, SEPT. 11, 2007)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); CONSPIRACY (90%); WRITERS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (85%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); POLITICS (76%); JOURNALISM (74%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (71%); RELIGION (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (60%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (60%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHN BIRCH SOCIETY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: Among the Truthers: A Journey Through Americas Growing Conspiracist Underground (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



466 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: Still Making the Cool Stuff

BYLINE: By COLIN ANGLE. 
As told to Patricia R. Olsen.

 BODY:
I WAS focused on building things from an early age. When I was about 3, our toilet broke and my mother was ready to call the plumber. I told her I would fix it and asked her to get my Richard Scarry book ''How Things Work in Busytown.'' Between the picture of a toilet, and the text she read to me explaining how the parts worked, I fixed it.
I thought boxes were the best toy. When my parents got a new car, I ran to my mother and said, ''Did it come in a box?'' Later I created conveyor systems to carry things from one side of the house to the other. 
My parents divorced when I was 9, but they continued to support my projects. If I needed copper wire or more Legos, the items would magically appear. I also enjoyed the leadership aspect of organizing events like Ultimate Frisbee.
I learned to canoe at summer camp and thought I'd pursue Olympic whitewater canoeing. In my senior year of high school, I instead decided to attend M.I.T. I like to say I've had only two jobs in my life: whitewater canoeing instructor and wilderness guide in college, and C.E.O. of iRobot.
I started iRobot with a fellow M.I.T graduate, Helen Greiner, and our professor, Rodney Brooks, in 1990. (They've since started their own robotics companies, and we're still good friends.) So I was a C.E.O. at 22.
You want to have a certain gravitas when you're young and pioneering a product in a new space, but my business card read ''C.E.O. and Professional Kid.'' I realized that was a problem when an investment banker left our meeting 10 minutes after I handed the card to him. I didn't close a lot of multinational deals in those years. By 30, I was taken more seriously.
Starting out, iRobot was not an economic rocket ship. It took six and a half years before we had enough money in the bank at the beginning of each month to make payroll. We always made it -- we paid salaries at the end of the month and I always had four weeks to figure things out. So despite the risks I saw on a daily basis, our employees never worried.
The company has two divisions. Our home robots division makes the Roomba vacuum, which navigates a room and avoids obstacles while cleaning. And we just released the Scooba 230, which washes bathroom floors. Our government and industrial division makes robots for bomb disposal; iRobot now has over 4,000 of them in more than 25 countries.
We also make robots for undersea exploration. One battery charge lets our ultrahigh-endurance robot collect data undersea at extreme distances. After the oil rig explosion in the Gulf of Mexico last year, researchers hypothesized that there were plumes of oil beneath the water's surface. Data from our Seaglider robots proved it. Recently we provided four robots to Japan for use in a damaged nuclear reactor.
It took 10 years to develop our first product, the Roomba, and we take the long view with our current effort to develop products to help the elderly live independently in their homes. Learning the health care industry will take time, but we're facing huge demographic shifts, and there aren't enough caregivers for an aging population. We already help people clean their homes, but we're looking at robotic applications that could help monitor their safety and help them adhere to medication regimens, and so forth.
People tell me over and over what they want. If the same thing comes up again and again, it doesn't take a Ph.D. to know we should produce it. Then we have to look at how to make a complicated robotic product that's affordable and easy to use. But our mission has never changed: to build cool stuff, deliver great products, make money, have fun and change the world.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: COLIN ANGLE: Chairman and C.E.O. of iRobot, Bedford, Mass. AGE: 43 FAVORITE OUTDOOR ACTIVITY: Sailing RECENTLY READ: ''The Silent Sea'' by Clive Cussler (PHOTOGRAPH BY IROBOT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOATING & RAFTING (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); MATERIALS HANDLING (69%); ROBOTICS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011



467 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; THE U.S. ISSUE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Cutting the Cost of That Road Trip

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
HEADING for the highway this summer? The great American road trip will cost you more than last year thanks to high fuel prices.
The price of gas on average in the United States was $3.96 earlier this month, up from $2.91 a gallon last summer, according to AAA's Daily Fuel Gauge Report. And prices have been topping $4 at some service stations in California, Connecticut, Illinois and New York.
But don't tell the kids it's going to be another staycation summer just yet. While the price of gas in the United States is still more than a dollar higher than the same time last year, analysts say gas prices may have hit their peak and are expected to drop, offering drivers some relief. In the meantime, there are plenty of ways to keep your fuel bill in check, from choosing the right destination (see our 50 round-trip getaways you can take on one tank of gas at nytimes.com/travel) to downloading the right app. Below, 13 tips for cutting the cost of that summer road trip. 
GET A GAS APP There are dozens of apps that help users find cheap gas while on the road. GasBuddy.com, offers one of the more comprehensive for iPhone and Android users, with a clean design and estimated drive times to gas stations in your vicinity. Just tap ''Find Gas Near Me'' or search by city or ZIP code for a list of gas stations sorted by price. You can click Midgrade, Premium or Diesel for those prices. Selecting Map View displays the stations on a map. Another option is AAA's free TripTik Mobile app for the iPhone, which allows users to search prices for their preferred grade of gasoline.
LET THE HOTEL COVER THE GAS To avoid a repeat of 2008, when the soaring price of gas made ''staycation'' a household term, destinations that rely primarily on drivers are rolling out gas-related incentives. San Luis Obispo, a coastal resort town halfway between San Francisco and Los Angeles, is promoting car-free vacations with 20 percent Amtrak discounts and hotel bargains of up to 30 percent off. And many hotel chains, from Sky Hotels & Resorts in Orlando to Personality Hotels in San Francisco, are offering gas cards or rebates from $10 to $50, depending on the package and length of stay.
STAY OUT OF TRAFFIC Google Maps, which comes preinstalled on many smartphones or is available for download, offers an at-a-glance display of road conditions in major cities to help you find the best route around congestion so you don't burn up extra fuel in stop-and-go traffic. Color-coded lines correspond to the intensity of traffic: green for no traffic jams, yellow for medium congestion, red for heavy congestion, and red-and-black for stop-and-go. Google Maps Navigation, offered through Google Maps for Android, has recently been updated to offer alternate routes to avoid tie-ups.
PAY LESS FOR YOUR RENTAL CAR A cheaper rental will help offset the cost of gas. Check out the booking site Autoslash.com, which searches the Web for discount coupons on car rentals and applies them after you book. It then continually checks for lower rates and coupons up until your trip date, and automatically applies any discounts it finds. Willing to gamble? Consider Web sites like Priceline.com and Hotwire.com, which offer deep discounts to travelers willing to be locked into a preset price before learning what company they'll be renting from.
RESHUFFLE YOUR CREDIT CARDS Consider a credit card that offers cash back for gas purchases. Discover's Open Road card, for example, offers 2 percent back on the first $250 in combined gas and restaurant purchases each billing period, and Capital One's No Hassle Cash Rewards card offers 2 percent cash back on purchases at gas stations and major grocery stores.
LOSE THE GOLF CLUBS An extra 100 pounds in your vehicle could reduce your mileage by up to 2 percent, according to an Energy Department and Environmental Protection Agency Web site, Fueleconomy.gov. And keep luggage inside the vehicle rather than strapped to the roof, to reduce aerodynamic drag.
FILL IT UP WITH REGULAR Most vehicles that call for premium fuel (which was $4.23 on average earlier this month, according to AAA's Daily Fuel Gauge Report, up from $3.20 a year ago) can run on regular just fine, according to Cars.com, an online car shopping site. ''Technically, this makes the car less efficient, but not to a degree that negates the cost savings from the cheaper fuel grade,'' states the site under Tips for Saving Fuel. However, some cars do require premium fuel, so before you fill up, check your owner's manual to find out if the higher-priced gas is required or just recommended.
USE THE RIGHT OIL You can boost your gas mileage by 1 or 2 percent by using the manufacturer's recommended grade of motor oil, according to Fueleconomy.gov. Look for oil that says ''energy conserving'' or ''resource conserving'' on the A.P.I. performance symbol to be sure it contains friction-reducing additives that form films to reduce the friction of moving engine parts and to help improve fuel economy.
SKIP THE TOLL-BOOTH LINE On road trips in the Northeast, a monthly E-ZPass subscription will keep you out of long lines, saving you idling time and gas. The electronic toll-collection system is offered on most toll roads, bridges and tunnels across 14 states from Maine to Virginia and west to Illinois. SunPass is the equivalent in Florida; FasTrak is in the San Francisco Bay Area.
CHECK YOUR TIRE PRESSURE You can improve your gas mileage by up to 3.3 percent by simply keeping your tires inflated to the proper pressure, according to Fueleconomy.gov. Underinflated tires can lower gas mileage by 0.3 percent for every pound-per-square-inch drop in pressure of all four tires. (You can get a tire-pressure gauge at any hardware store or auto store for about $10.) Check your vehicle's owner's manual or the door jamb for the proper level of inflation (not the tire itself, which shows the maximum tire inflation pressure), and be sure to check the tire pressure when the tires are cold, as internal pressure increases when the car has been on the road for a while and the tires heat up.
SLOW DOWN Gas mileage typically decreases at speeds above 60 miles per hour, according to Fueleconomy.gov. ''You can assume that each 5 m.p.h. you drive over 60 m.p.h. is like paying an additional $0.24 per gallon for gas,'' the site states.
TAKE THE BUS Cheap express buses with names like BoltBus, Megabus and Vamoose have become popular along the Northeast Corridor and elsewhere, with amenities like free Wi-Fi and power and seats for $30 or less, depending on when you reserve -- which can be less than what you might pay in gas if you drive yourself. Search for seats at GotoBus.com or at BusJunction.com.
USE PEDAL POWER You don't need four wheels to get a taste of the open road. Two will do just fine. The nonprofit Adventure Cycling Association offers tools to help cyclists plan, including more than 40,000 miles of cycling routes throughout North America, with elevation profiles, turn-by-turn directions and symbols that mark bike shops, lodging and other services. Twenty-two long-distance routes, which are broken into shorter sections of about 350 miles long, are available for $14.75 each or $11.75 for those who pay a $40 membership fee.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIVIER KUGLER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); GAS STATIONS (90%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (88%); SMARTPHONES (87%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (87%); SALES REBATES (78%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); RESORTS (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (73%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (72%); HOTEL CHAINS (67%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (62%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (52%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



468 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1598 words

HEADLINE: Old Songs, New Voices: A Reunion

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
As if guided by sense memory, they took their positions from their gospel chorus days, only they were standing on a sidewalk on the Upper West Side.
Kelvin started it, slyly crooning the words ''Oh happy day...'' His former teacher echoed the line, and after a while, Vincent joined in with a heartfelt ''He taught me howwww. ...''
Clapping and laughing, they eased into an Aland Island folk song about friendship, ''Vem Kan Segla Forutan Vind,'' and then kept going, singing the rest of their repertory. Jamie, who had lost his high boy soprano, conducted.
As passers-by smiled indulgently, one student recalled, ''That was Ashley's solo,'' and later, ''That was where Pierre made everybody cry.'' 
''How come you remember the songs?'' their teacher asked.
''Because we were young and practiced a million times,'' Jamie said.
''In the shower,'' Eralis said.
''You helped me find my voice,'' Keshauna said.
Ten years ago, 24 children from Public School 86 in the Bronx went on an unlikely trip to the Aland Islands, a Swedish-speaking archipelago in Finland, with their music teacher, Johanna Grussner. They were part of the P.S. 86 Select Chorus that she had founded, and Ms. Grussner wanted to show them a different way of life, a place where the elementary school had 56 students, not 2,000; where teachers did not need megaphones to communicate; and where the students went out to recess even in winter, because there was ''no bad weather, only bad clothes.''
The trip seemed to show that anything was possible in New York City, even at P.S. 86, in the poor and working-class Kingsbridge section. It seemed that, for the students, it could be a life-changing moment. I believed in the transformational power of that trip as much as anybody, and wrote a series of articles for The New York Times and a book about it, ''Seven Days of Possibilities: One Teacher, 24 Kids and the Music That Changed Their Lives Forever.''
A few weeks ago, eight of the students who had gone to Finland got together for the first time in a decade for a reunion. Ms. Grussner flew in from Stockholm for the occasion. At the time of the trip, they were 11 and 12 years old; now, they were 21 and 22. Their teacher was 28 and just out of music school; now, she was nearly 40, a married woman with two young children.
The reunion was my chance to see how they had turned out -- part ''My Dinner With Andre,'' part longitudinal study.
What I discovered was, perhaps, the intransigence of social circumstances. The children whose family lives were the most stable -- whose parents were the most accomplished -- seemed to be traveling on an upward arc; those who had grown up on welfare, in broken homes, were more likely to seem stuck at that baseline, working in subsistence jobs.
The children who had been closest to their teacher, and who had formed the core of my book, were the ones who returned. They still treasured the memory of that trip, and the attention it had brought them, with one exception: Ashley Alvarez. Ashley, once a bony 11-year-old with a raspy voice, had stopped responding to Ms. Grussner's e-mails as the date of the reunion approached.
On the night of the reunion, the students found their way, one by one, to V&T pizzeria, chosen for its central location, at 110th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Vincent Maldonado, having cleaned up his naughty-boy image, sauntered up at 7 p.m. in urban casual: yellow Aeropostale shirt, white shorts ending at mid-calf, spotless yellow sneakers, a big-faced watch and a hint of a goatee. Tattoos covered his arms: the Empire State Building, the Statue of Liberty, the letters BX and, on his right shoulder, his mother's name, Ruth.
He hugged his teacher the longest, and when he pulled away, his eyes were wet. ''You still have the keyboard?'' Ms. Grussner asked.
''Yes,'' Mr. Maldonado replied.
''You still have the keyboard!'' Ms. Grussner exulted.
She had given her keyboard to him on an impulse when she left New York City, and he still noodles around on it. But the boy who had once been a regular visitor to the principal's office, and whose mother had supplemented her public assistance by making party favors, was now dispensing his roguish charm at a customer service job at Modell's, the sporting goods chain.
''Customers come in, and I assess what they like,'' Mr. Maldonado said.
''Do you like it?'' Ms. Grussner asked.
''It pays the bills,'' he said. ''I want to say I like it, but it pays the bills.''
Years of educational research have found that the biggest predictor of academic achievement is a child's family background, particularly the mother's level of education, and Jamie Flores seemed like living proof.
He arrived holding a textbook called ''Basic Medical Endocrinology,'' which he had been studying on the subway. Once the shortest boy in the chorus, with big, dark eyes and thick black bangs, he was now a muscular 5-foot-8, and his hair was shorn in a crew cut.
Years ago, his mother had gone to Brooklyn Tech, one of the city's test-based high schools. Jamie excelled at Celia Cruz Bronx High School of Music and was accepted at New York University, where he is a biology major studying for an M.D. and a Ph.D. He studied piano at Juilliard during high school, affirming Ms. Grussner's belief that he was probably the most talented member of the chorus. Even now, he said, he retreats to the practice rooms to play when he is under stress.
''I got three hours of sleep last night,'' Mr. Flores said at the reunion, guzzling from a mug of coffee, then joining Mr. Maldonado in a rum and coke. The transition from the Bronx to Washington Square Park had its rough spots.
''N.Y.U. compared to my high school academics was like, I was like the dumb Latino trying to struggle,'' Mr. Flores said, with ruefulness and bravado. ''I went from, like, almost passing Math B to, like, college calculus.'' Sophomore year was brutal, and he thought about giving up. ''After that, it all got better; something clicked,'' he said. ''I drank some smart juice or something.''
Erica Davies, still tall and swanlike, glided in three hours late, admitting that she had been a little nervous about coming, but adding: ''As soon as I looked in the window, I was like, Yes! I know everybody.'' The daughter of a preschool teacher, she went to the Ethical Culture Fieldston School on a scholarship. She is now studying economics at Lehman College, in the Bronx. The pizzeria reminded her of private school. ''I used to wish I lived in this neighborhood,'' she said wistfully. ''Most of my friends in high school lived between 72nd and 110th, on Riverside Drive and Central Park West.''
Between pizza and tiramisu, the group went outside to take pictures. One of the girls worried that Ms. Grussner, in ballet flats and leggings, looked frail. ''I used to wear heels a lot, but my legs are too weak; they can't really make it anymore,'' Ms. Grussner said, her only allusion to the diagnosis of muscular dystrophy that contributed to her decision to move back home.
Pictures led to the impromptu concert, and by the end of it, they were talking about another reunion, in five years this time, in Aland, or maybe in Stockholm, where Ms. Grussner lives. ''How are we going to raise the money for the next trip?'' Ms. Grussner asked.
''Let's perform in Washington Square Park,'' Mr. Flores said. ''I'll take out more student loans, whatever.''
The restaurant threw them out at midnight. As the metal security gate was lowered behind them, they lingered on the sidewalk. They started up a chant of ''Five, five, five...,'' sealing their promise by clasping hands.
But without Ashley, the reunion hadn't felt complete to me. She had been one of the more vulnerable children, placed in therapy after she wrote in class that she wanted to die. Yet she was also one of the pluckier ones, and I had long wondered what had happened to her. So I set out to find her.
I discovered her on Facebook, where she described herself as ''20 years young with 2 beautiful daughters.'' (She actually turned 21 five days before the reunion.) It made me sad that she sounded so prematurely old.
After putting me off for a few days, she agreed to meet. I recognized the Fifth Avenue address; it was her grandmother's apartment, in a building with uniformed doormen, on the invisible boundary between the wealthy Upper East Side and scrappy East Harlem. She still had the puckish demeanor and raspy, Janis Joplin-like voice of her days in the P.S. 86 chorus, but she does not sing anymore. She is going to school to get her G.E.D. and a two-year college degree, and hopes to become a nurse, like her grandmother.
Ms. Alvarez introduced me to her bright, chatty daughters, Dynasty, 3, and Catalina, 2. Their father is in jail. Ms. Alvarez had moved in with her grandmother, but they quarreled. Now the younger woman spends $400 a month -- she makes $7.50 an hour selling jeans on Canal Street -- to rent a room from a friend.
She had really wanted to go to the reunion, she said, but could not get time off from work. I was not sure I believed her. I think she stayed away for the same reason that most people avoid reunions: because they are afraid of being judged. But what she said next made me wonder if one passionate teacher could make a difference after all.
The day after the reunion, Ms. Alvarez took the M4 bus up Madison Avenue. It turned left onto 110th Street. When it got to Amsterdam Avenue, she got off and walked to V&T's. She did not expect to see her classmates. But she wanted to be where they had been.
''I sat there and ate,'' she said, and she thought about a trip to Finland, a long time ago.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TOGETHER AGAIN: Johanna Grussner and members of her Bronx school chorus. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1)
CHOIR: Last month, the former students sang together on the Upper West Side. In 2001, left, they rehearsed with their music teacher, Johanna Grussner. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); FAMILY (71%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); SWEDEN (79%); FINLAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



469 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2108 words

HEADLINE: Fast-Tracking to Kindergarten?

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
ON command, Eze Schupfer reads aloud the numbers on a worksheet in front of her: ''42, 43, 12, 13.'' Then she begins to trace them.
''Is that how we write a 12?'' her instructor, Maria Rivas, asks. ''Erase it.''
''This is a sloppy 12, Eze,'' she says. ''Go ahead: a one and a two. Smaller. Much better.''
Eze moves to 13. 
''Neater,'' Ms. Rivas insists. ''Come on, you can do it.'' Finally, she resorts to the kind of incentive that Eze, her pink glitter sneaker barely grazing the ground, can appreciate: ''You'll get an extra sticker if you can do a perfect 13.''
Eze is 3. She is neither problem child nor prodigy. And her mother, Gina Goldman, who watches through a glass window from the waiting room, says drilling numbers and letters into the head of a 3-year-old defies all the warmth and coziness of her parenting philosophy -- as well as the ethos of Eze's progressive preschool. But she began bringing Eze and her older brother to these tutoring sessions nearly a year ago on the advice of a friend, and has since become the kind of believer who is fueling a rapid expansion of Junior Kumon preschool enrichment programs like this one, a block from the toddler-swollen playgrounds of Battery Park City.
As competition in education has spread down, the tutoring industry has followed.
Research suggests that there is little benefit from this kind of tutoring; that young children learn just as much about math, if not more, fitting mixing bowls together on the kitchen floor. But programs like Kumon are gaining from, and generating, parents' anxiety about what kind of preparation their children will need -- and whether parents themselves have what it takes to provide it. For those whose idea of enrichment is introducing ''Buenas Noches, Luna'' into their toddlers' bedtime reading ritual, this is yet another reminder that no matter how much you do, there is always some other program that -- who knows? -- just might mean a difference.
''The best you can say is that they're useless,'' said Alison Gopnik, a professor of psychology at the University of California, Berkeley, who compared the escalation of supplemental education with Irish elk competing to see which had the biggest antlers. ''The result is that they go around tottering, unable to walk, under the enormous weight of these antlers they've developed,'' she said. ''I think it's true of American parents from high school all the way down to preschool.''
Other tutoring companies like Sylvan have also moved into the prekindergarten market. But Kumon, a Japanese import that calls itself the world's largest math and reading enrichment program, has pushed most aggressively, admitting students as young as 2. Those young students have become an increasingly important part of its business: Kumon grew by about 12 percent last year, to 250,000 students nationwide; Junior Kumon grew by more than 30 percent. In New York, where the company is colonizing storefronts like so many Starbucks, enrollment in Junior Kumon has tripled since it began opening centers in 2007.
''Age 3 is the sweet spot,'' said Joseph Nativo, chief financial officer for Kumon North America. ''But if they're out of a diaper and can sit still with a Kumon instructor for 15 minutes, we will take them.''
While worksheets are considered soul sapping in the schools where many Junior Kumon parents aspire to send their children -- the kind of affluent places holding screenings of ''Race to Nowhere'' -- at Kumon, they are the essence of the experience. Repetition, derided elsewhere as drill and kill, is considered the key to developing concentration.
PARENTS pay $200 to $300 a month for their 2-, 3-, 4- or 5-year-old to spend up to an hour twice weekly being tutored at a Junior Kumon center -- 20 to 30 minutes each on reading and math. Children are then expected to do 20 minutes of homework on each subject every day, with their parents guiding and grading them. Recommended reading lists start in preschool with ''Goodnight Moon'' and ''Each Peach Pear Plum.''
Ms. Goldman, who works at an agency representing artists, took her son, Huxton, to Kumon last September, shortly after he turned 5, in an effort to make sure, she said, ''that he wouldn't be behind the curve'' when he started kindergarten the next year.
If she was hesitant, her children's preschool was ''disgusted,'' she said. But she saw immediate results -- Huxton began reading, adding and subtracting -- and Eze, newly 3, started soon after. ''These results translated into a self-esteem boost that I didn't anticipate,'' Ms. Goldman said. ''They've gotten that there's a thrill in achieving something. I care more about that than I care about them reading.''
She liked that it required her to participate in her children's homework. ''I treat them both with more respect now, because I see what they're capable of intellectually,'' she said. And she liked that it was reward-based, even as she recognizes that some experts decry using prizes as incentives to learn. ''That's life,'' she said. ''If you do something, you get something.''
Now, as she considers what extracurricular activities to keep on their schedule (her children also take swimming, karate, music, art and German classes), Ms. Goldman said she would not think of giving up Kumon.
''It used to seem like a horrible thing to do to your kid -- why would you force this?'' she said. ''I don't feel that way anymore.''
Officials at Kumon say it is often thought of as an ''Asian'' program -- a description they reject. There is no competition or pressure, they say; everyone gets a perfect score on the worksheets because they are given countless opportunities to correct themselves. But Junior Kumon has proven popular among many accomplished immigrant parents.
Estee Bauernebel, who grew up in Australia of Korean, Japanese, Chinese and Malaysian heritage, took Kumon classes herself as a child. Seeing the education her son was getting in a public elementary school ''was heartbreaking,'' she said. ''In Australia they're doing basic multiplication in first grade.''
She enrolled him first, at 7, and then her daughter, Mia, at 3, after she became jealous of her brother's homework -- a not uncommon story at Junior Kumon centers. ''She used to cry at night because she couldn't read,'' Ms. Bauernebel said. ''It was so traumatic for all of us.''
Kumon officials say they had always allowed preschoolers into the programs. But about 10 years ago, they repackaged and began marketing it as Junior Kumon. ''People sometimes believed 'my kids are too young,' '' said Mr. Nativo, the chief financial officer. ''We highlighted the fact that the earlier you start, the better.''
The company created additional flash cards aimed at younger children, and altered the setup of the centers. While students in older Kumon programs work independently at tables set up in rows, Junior Kumon students sit around horseshoe-shaped tables, overseen by ''assistants'' -- they are never called teachers. The company installed windows between the parents' waiting rooms and the Junior Kumon rooms, to ease any separation anxiety.
''The Junior Kumon program is the anchor of our center,'' said Amy DeBock, who owns a franchise in South Grafton, Mass., that serves the affluent communities surrounding it. ''The students who do well in Junior Kumon, they will continue and continue and continue with the program.''
She was concerned when the economy collapsed that parents would pull their children out. But she has seen no dropoff. ''I really think parents will get rid of everything else but education for their children,'' she said. ''With all the information coming out about the competition and the push on education, especially in our area, parents are just wanting their children to have the best, to be ahead.''
Most Kumon centers are franchises. But recognizing the prohibitive costs of rent in New York City, the parent company began opening centers itself in New York City a little over three years ago. It now has 36 in the five boroughs -- 13 in Manhattan -- with 14 more expected to open this year.
At the Battery Park City center, students walk in with a sense of purpose, carrying light-blue pouches with their homework. They check in on an attendance sheet and search out their folders with new worksheets, then sit down and take out their pencils.
For the uninitiated -- not to mention anyone with small children -- a visit to Junior Kumon can be unnerving.
Little Kate Wattenberg, a 6-year-old who recently graduated from Junior Kumon, has just finished 90 multiplication problems in six minutes. As she prepares to check out for the day, she shows the center's director, Diana Sutowski, the entry in her reading journal for the last book she read, ''Knights in Shining Armor.'' ''I liked that he did become a knight because he practiced a lot,'' she had written.
''Can you tell me what the future tense of practice is?'' Ms. Sutowski asks.
''I will practice,'' Kate says.
''The past tense?''
''Past is it already happened,'' Kate thinks aloud. ''I practiced.''
Before she leaves, Ms. Sutowski congratulates her with a high five.
Kate's mother, Jessica, brought her to Junior Kumon because, she said: ''I do try to follow education, and I am scared for the future of our country. These children are going to be central to our social security, to our political decisions.'' Like most students at Kumon, Kate comes from a background where she is likely to get plenty of educational stimulation and sophistication -- when Ms. Wattenberg tells her daughters that they are going home to make pizza with a friend that evening, Kate's younger sister, 4, cheers, ''I want pesto!''
Many who study child development say that that kind of exposure -- to parents who use big vocabulary words and bring books into the house -- is the best preparation for a young child, and question how much programs like Junior Kumon really help.
Parents and policy makers may be ambivalent, Professor Gopnik said, but the popularity of programs like Kumon is ''pushing very young children's lives and curriculum in preschool programs more and more in this direction.''
''Part of them are saying, 'This isn't right, 3-year-olds should be playing in the sandbox and putting together mixing bowls,' but then they're thinking that maybe if the kid next door is doing it, it'll be time to go to Harvard and my child won't have the same advantage,'' she said. ''We are in a culture where education is the path to success, and it's hard for people to recognize how deep and profound learning is when children are just playing.''
''When you're putting blocks together, you're learning how to be a physicist,'' agreed Kathy Hirsh-Pasek, a psychologist at Temple University and an author of ''Einstein Never Used Flash Cards.'' ''When you're learning how to balance things and calculate how tall you can make your building, you're learning how to be a physicist. Having your kid drill and kill and fill in worksheets at 2 and 3 and 4 to the best of our knowledge so far does not give your child a leg up on anything.''
''Yes, your child might know more of his letters than the child who spent Saturday in the sandbox,'' she said. ''But the people who are team players, who are creative innovators, they are the ones who are going to invent the next iPad. The kids who are just memorizing are going to be outsourced to the kids in India who have memorized the same stuff.''
Programs like Junior Kumon may not do harm, she said. But they do help push a consensus that young children need more and more structured curriculum.
At the Battery Park City Kumon, Maverick Scott, a financial analyst, pulled a book from his backpack: ''Every Child an Achiever: A Parent's Guide to Kumon.'' It had helped persuade him to bring his son, Cyrus, to Junior Kumon at age 4.
''This is math and reading,'' he said. ''They don't do that in preschool.''
Cyrus sometimes resisted doing the homework, he said. This was obvious when Cyrus had already counted how many pages he had to complete before they even started. Now Kumon work has become routine, Mr. Scott said, even on vacation. ''It's very natural.''
Now 5, Cyrus has advanced into the classes for older children.
Back in the Junior Kumon room, Ella Shrotri was completing her third day. Her parents brought her here shortly after her older brother started Kumon. She was more developed than he was socially, they said, but they wanted to help her develop academically.
Ms. Rivas, the instructor, helped guide Ella's tiny hand as she traced a lower-case ''a.'' ''A circle then, down,'' she said gently. ''We'll try again next time,'' she said finally.
There would be time. Ella was still two weeks shy of 3.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE DRILL: Eze Schupfer at Junior Kumon in Battery Park City. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1)
TUTORED: Above, Michelle Lee with preschoolers at Kumon of Midtown East. Above left, a new Kumon in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn. Left, at Battery Park City Kumon. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, ABOVE AND BELOW LEFT, JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ABOVE LEFT, KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (88%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (87%); PARENTING (74%); PSYCHOLOGY (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011



470 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: The 30-Minute Interview/A. Eugene Kohn

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Kohn is a founder and the chairman of Kohn Pedersen Fox Associates, one of the world's largest architecture firms, with headquarters in New York. The firm's work in the area includes the Hudson Yards master plan on the West Side and condominiums like One Jackson Square and 27 Wooster Street, as well as the expansion and renovation of the Museum of Modern Art.
Q How is business these days? 
A It's been good despite the economy. Our decision to go into Europe and Asia back in the '80s was key. The area of the world with the greatest population growth -- Korea, Hong Kong, Singapore -- has kept us busy for many years. China has been one of the great markets for us.
Across the globe, we're working on about 100 projects at the moment. They're in different stages: some are under construction, some in design, some in working drawings and studies.
Q What percentage of your work is overseas?
A If you asked me a year ago, I would have said 80 or 90 percent. But today it's changing. I would say a greater percentage has picked up here in the last year. So now just in the states, it's about 25 to 30 percent. Particularly in New York -- more so than most places -- things have picked up.
Q I know you've been busy, on and off, with Hudson Yards, which will include 12 million square feet of office towers, apartments, a hotel and a park over the 26-acre railyards.
A We've been on it for about three and a half years. The last year and the year before that we didn't do a lot. But Steve Ross and Related, and Oxford Properties, are committed to build this soon and are convinced that by next year they're going to be moving ahead quite well. Which tenant goes first is up in the air.
The first phase is this: three towers with offices and residences and big retail. It's all over the railroad tracks, so a big platform has to be built. We're going to build the platform on the east and west end. This should be completed in 2016, and the entire project in 2025. That sounds like a lot of time, but look at the World Trade Center.
Q Speaking of which, what are your thoughts about the rebuilding at ground zero?
A It's sad that it's taken this long. In 20 years Shanghai built a city, added eight million people.
I think the Port Authority and everybody has done a good job, but they've been up against a lot of issues.
Q You had hoped to have a major role in the design, hadn't you?
A We did have a scheme, but unfortunately it got published in one of the magazines and we got disqualified.
Q KPF was supposed to build JPMorgan Chase's headquarters at 5 World Trade Center.
A I think that's dead.
We had just gotten approval from JPMorgan and from the Port Authority for the latest design, which never got published, when the crash came and JPMorgan ended up buying Bear Stearns. That decision killed the project, because they got a building as part of it, and it's right next to their other building. So why not use it?
Q Let's move on to some of your recent residential projects.
A Well, they're all certainly very modern, but each one relates to its site. One Jackson Square, for example, changed that whole place. That building we've never done before -- that particular form, shape. It was viewed almost as if it were flowing ribbons or rivers. It's really made a contribution well beyond just being a building.
Q Did you always want to be an architect?
A I wanted to be a sportscaster, and when I was young my parents thought that was a ridiculous idea. They said, 'You have to be a professional, preferably a doctor or lawyer.' Architect came down the line. My mom was a great artist, had a show at the Guggenheim at age 100.
Q What has been your most memorable project?
A When we started the firm in '76 -- when the recession was pretty bad and unemployment for architects in the city was 60 percent -- a wealthy friend said to me, 'Your success will be measured by the work you turn down.' I'm thinking, 'We don't have any work, and I have three kids going to school and no money.' But my friend was absolutely right.
The first job offer comes from a bank in Iran asking us to do a new headquarters, just before the shah is booted out. We were offered, for the design, $1.3 million.
I had worked in Iran for 10 years, and I began to think about my experience there. My stomach was really sick turning down a job and that money. But if we hadn't, we wouldn't have gotten a job from ABC converting an armory they bought on 66th to a soap opera studio. That was the start of all the great breaks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (86%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); OFFICE PROPERTY (69%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%)

COMPANY: KOHN PEDERSEN FOX ASSOCIATES PC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (58%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); EAST CHINA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



471 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 2909 words

HEADLINE: MEET THE MAKERS

BYLINE: By ANAND GIRIDHARADAS

 BODY:
Late in 2007, Ayah Bdeir was working in a plush office in Midtown Manhattan, making a lot of money and feeling miserable. She was a financial-software consultant for a technology company. One of her specialties was peddling software for credit-default swaps -- among the many complex financial instruments that would soon wreak havoc on the planet. Somewhere there was a thing from which these derivatives were derived, but Bdeir, atop countless layers of transacting, was too far away to see it, much less touch it. 
Bdeir is 28, a petite and round-faced woman, gregarious and combustible. As she describes it now, the virtuality of her working life was deeply upsetting; she felt surrounded by the inconsequential, the endless conversation about how to display the nominal on PowerPoints that called for the making of future PowerPoints. Just before year's end, Bdeir quit. She secured a fellowship, for considerably lower pay, from an art and technology center in Chelsea. She knew that she wanted her next project to be the opposite of a credit-default swap -- tangible, constructive. And then it hit her: the opposite of her make-believe transacting would be to make things. A few years earlier, as a graduate student at the M.I.T. Media Lab, she fell in with a community that was trying to transform manufacturing -- a new kind of small-scale, local manufacturing that could be done in the home, with machines no bigger than a microwave. Bdeir now resolved, over the strenuous objection of her mother and several friends, to become a new-age manufacturer.
At first, she pursued the idea as a financial-industry software executive might: she researched making, made plans to make and made PowerPoints about making. Meanwhile, she made nothing. Then, while earning some money by training not-very-tech-savvy designers in the use of electronics, Bdeir had the idea, in collaboration with a colleague, of making electronics components into Lego-like bricks that could be used by anybody, even the technically ungifted. She would make sets of self-contained bricks, filled with circuits, sensors, solar panels and motors that could be snapped together to create basic machines -- for instance, a battery connected to a bulb and a pressure sensor that can illuminate or dim it. She would make things and allow others to make other things.
She would eventually turn the brick project into a business, selling $99 kits, called littleBits, for people to make their own crude gadgets. She wagered her career on the belief that in her resistance to the virtual, in her longing to make something actual, she was not alone.
And she wasn't. Even as one boom era hurtled toward its end, a diffuse global community of nerds was at work on what it hoped would fuel the next one. They were coming to the same conclusion as Ayah Bdeir -- that the new new thing was, in fact, things.
If you lived in Detroit in 1961 and watched Alfred Hitchcock's ''Psycho'' at a drive-in, you might have caught a 30-minute trailer called ''American Maker,'' sponsored by Chevrolet. ''Of all things Americans are, we are makers,'' its narrator began, over footage of boys building sand castles. ''With our strengths and our minds and spirit, we gather, we form and we fashion: makers and shapers and put-it-togetherers.''
Fifty years on, the American maker is in a bad way. Such is the state of American industry that waste paper is among the top 10 exports to China, behind nuclear equipment but far ahead of traditional mainstays like iron and steel. Manufacturing employment has fallen by a third in the last decade alone, with more than 40,000 factories shutting down. More Americans today are unemployed than are wage-earning ''put-it-togetherers.'' But the American romance with making actual things is going through a resurgence. In recent years, a nationwide movement of do-it-yourself aficionados has embraced the self-made object. Within this group is a quixotic band of soldering, laser-cutting, software-programming types who, defying all economic logic, contend that they can reverse America's manufacturing slump. America will make things again, they say, because Americans will make things -- not just in factories but also in their own homes, and not because it's artisanal or faddish but because it's easier, better for the environment and more fun.
What makes this notion something less than complete fantasy is the availability of new manufacturing machines that are cheap, simple and compact enough for small companies, local associations and even amateur hobbyists to own and operate. What once only big firms with hulking factories could fabricate can now be made in a basement or by e-mailing a design to an online factory-for-hire. These machines can produce all sorts of things, including plastic pencil holders, eyeglass frames and MP3 players.
Makers, as they call themselves, can't compete with the long, orderly rows of workers from the poorer provinces of China or India who cut, stitch and solder bras, shoes and cellphones for pennies -- or even with the hundreds of billions of dollars a year worth of stuff that continues to pour out of large, old-fashioned American factories. Their method involves creating ''hacker space'' cooperatives, where a few dozen members share a 3-D printer, a laser cutter and an oscilloscope and engage in collaborative manufacturing projects. Makers have created companies like Shapeways and CloudFab, which for a fee will manufacture small runs of products that you design. They are becoming kit makers like Bdeir, manufacturing building blocks that allow others to create things.
Neil Gershenfeld, an M.I.T. physicist who is an intellectual godfather to the maker movement, suggested to me that the new tools would over time change global industry as we know it. He predicts a wave of new competitors for the megacorporation that designs, makes and sells products all under one brand. Instead, Gershenfeld imagines a consumer of the near future downloading a design for a mobile phone through an iTunes-like portal; buying an add-on from another firm that tweaks the design; and having it printed at a neighborhood shop in a plastic shell of your choice.
The new personal factories may seem like crude toys for only the most die-hard D.I.Y.-ers. But in technology circles, they are talked about as a looming revolution that could change the way people work and create new opportunities for millions. Personal factories can perhaps be compared to the earliest personal computers -- versions of their giant counterparts that are drastically cheaper but also slower and more clumsy. This futuristic vision is the one that the White House endorsed in a recent report on personal manufacturing: ''Within a generation, you will have a hard time explaining to your grandchildren how you were able to live without your own fabber,'' it said, using a popular word for the new manufacturing tools. ''Personal-fabrication technologies present an opportunity for our nation to continue to lead the rest of the world in manufacturing, but in a new way.''
Before they could create their own little manufacturing hub in Detroit, Andrew and Ted Sliwinski and their associates had to cleanse their industrial space of the stench of meat. Bucket after bucket of hydrogen peroxide and bleach helped to turn a former cold-storage warehouse in the Eastern Market of Detroit into a D.I.Y. manufacturing cooperative.
The Sliwinski brothers came to Detroit from the suburbs of Philadelphia with the romantic notion of partaking in a revival of the city's tradition of making things. They and their colleagues rent the 7,200-square-foot warehouse, where more than two dozen members of the cooperative share laser cutters, 3-D printers, plastic vacuums and power drills. The ground floor holds the more basic appliances -- drills and saws and such. Once a week, they open up the space, named OmniCorpDetroit, to the public for an ''open hack night'' -- something that many cooperatives do. (Since our meeting, Andrew decided to move again, to California, where he plans to establish a new hacker space.)
Andrew and Ted have their desks upstairs, where the fancier work is done: there are electronics-making stations, with oscilloscopes and other tools; a community sewing center with machines that do complex embroidery; there is MakerBot Industries' CupCake CNC, a so-called 3-D printer that spits out small plastic wares. Makers describe it as the IBM PC of personal factories -- at $699 and sold in kits for assembly at home, it is the democratizing technology.
When I was there, I felt an urge to make something of my own. Andrew volunteered to help. He is 28 and slender, with a thick, rust-hued beard. He was wearing a wool hat, thick-framed plastic glasses, a black hoodie and black jeans, giving him more the look of know-it-all record-store clerk than of manufacturing champion. But the man knew what he was doing. He guided me to the Web site Thingiverse.com, which abounds in digital models -- three-dimensional files that the CupCake can print out. I browsed and chose an iPad stand.
I downloaded the files, and the computer processed them. The CupCake is a wood box, about the size of a blender, with open windows on three sides. The fourth side is covered with a rainbow thicket of wires and circuits; a spool of black plastic coil, which is melted to create the final object, poked in through the roof. As we instructed the computer to print, Andrew warned,''Oh, yeah, and it will start to smell like burning plastic.''
Which it soon did. The CupCake began to print. First the nozzle moved back and forth smoothly, dropping black plastic in neat rows. It was building a base for my object. Then it began to jitterbug, dashing unpredictably this way and that, depositing bits of the melting goo one layer at a time. Slowly it formed an iPad stand. But then, 19 minutes in, the machine lost the plot and began to squirt everywhere, and we had to start over.
We raised the melting temperature and tried again. Failure once more. Andrew tinkered with the machine and repeatedly muttered, ''It's not superhappy right now.'' It was hard not to wonder whether it wouldn't be easier just to have the Chinese do it.
Andrew said that the design I picked might have been flawed. We decided to try something easier: a hexagonal nut. At last, in less than half an hour, we had our perfect little nut. It was simple, unambitious and wonderful, though it might have been quicker to get it at a hardware store.
At the end of a long day, I accompanied a handful of makers to dinner at the nearby Cass Cafe. It was full of students and the artsy types now trickling into the city. Detroiters have various levels of appreciation and contempt for these outsiders, with their taste for all things free-range, open-source and wiki. OmniCorp fits well into this mix, because for its members and others in the maker community, manufacturing is about more than economic renewal; it is also about pushing back against the passivity that technology has bred, about being a smart consumer who knows what goes into your stuff. Making, for some, is a new liberal virtue. Andrew told me one day: ''There is something calming or reassuring or relaxing that happens when you build something with your hands. You've just made something bigger than yourself. You're not just being a consumer anymore.''
When Limor Fried and Phillip Torrone went office hunting in New York and found the perfect loft five blocks from Wall Street, they ran into two peculiar requirements from the landlord: they could rent the place if they had nothing to do with hedge funds and investment banks and if they could produce bank statements showing that their rent money was kept in such banalities as savings accounts, not in derivatives or futures. The landlord learned a lesson from the previous tenant, a trader who vacated when Wall Street collapsed.
The landlord was sufficiently reassured by the nature of the business, which is to do in a $6,000-a-month Manhattan apartment what the conventional wisdom says can profitably be done only in Shenzhen. Their company, Adafruit Industries, sells do-it-yourself electronics kits, which they manufacture and ship so that you, in turn, can make your own crude iPod equivalent or bespoke baby monitor or D.I.Y. phone charger. They are regarded as trailblazers among their fellow makers, because they actually manufacture in Manhattan and profitably. According to Torrone, the company had $2 million in sales in 2009, up from $60,000 in 2005, its first year.
In Adafruit's spacious loft, seven full-time employees, Torrone and Fried, the engineer-founder who owns the company, labor away on the kits. The full-timers are paid more than $50,000 a year and receive health benefits. I asked Torrone, the creative director, how it was possible to compensate these employees and create physical things profitably in Manhattan. He told me that making things right where they are invented allows Adafruit to build, test and perfect new products more swiftly. The higher price of rent and labor are balanced by a reduction in shipping bills, so that the costs are manageable. One of the company's best-selling kits, for a battery-powered cellphone charger, costs Adafruit $6 in parts and labor, Torrone said, and is sold to retailers for roughly $12. Moreover, he said, being in New York gives the company access to creativity and talent that is worth paying for.
''It would be cheaper if we were in the middle of nowhere,'' Torrone told me, ''but we'd be stuck in the middle of nowhere.''
Adafruit also illustrates how a good part of this new manufacturing operates through open-source sharing and what can be called social tinkering, in contrast with the manufacturing of the past, which emphasized patents, trade secrets and proprietary invention. Fried got the idea for such a company when, as a graduate student at the M.I.T. Media Lab, she began making simple MP3 players and cellphone jammers, just for nerdy kicks, and made the recipes for her creations -- CAD files, software, mechanical drawings -- public on her blog. Requests poured in for kits that would allow people to make what she designed, and Adafruit was born.
Today Adafruit remains an open-source company. It publicizes how its kits are made, so that you can clone them, and also reveals how it runs as a business. The company says which Internet service provider it uses, which shipping company, which software runs its online shopping system. Torrone told me that they share this information so that other companies, including rivals, can cut to the chase of genuine discovery and not get bogged down reinventing wheels.
At Adafruit, I did some quality-assurance work, which seemed a good way of understanding what the company did. I tested 40 circuit boards by pressing them against a set of pins. Thirty-seven passed. I placed each board in a pink bag and heat-sealed it. Later, I ran checks on bagged kits to find which of three clear light bulbs mistakenly shone yellow when electrified.
It was surreal to do this assembly-line work in Lower Manhattan. It felt like a violation of the economic laws of nature. The tasks were at once mindless and engaging. They required focus, because if you were distracted for a minute, you would mess up and your error would ramify into the world. But it also felt as if it could get old fairly quickly. The most invigorating part was that I didn't think about e-mail, my phone or Twitter while I was making. I was, against all modern odds, indivisibly present.
It was that very feeling that Ayah Bdeir craved after leaving the world of finance. When that world tumbled into full-fledged crisis at the end of 2008, pangs of guilt shot through her. It was her swaps that had done this. ''I was shocked, and I felt bad, because somehow I was contributing to this injustice, and I had no idea,'' she told me. ''I felt guilty for a while. I have three degrees; I speak three languages; I pride myself on my scientific and mathematical thinking -- how could I not have understood the social, economic and political dimensions of something that I was working on that ended up ruining the world?''
She has now found peace in her littleBits. On my trip to New York, I was able to play with her prototype kit. (The real ones, a first batch of 300, will be shipped to customers this spring.) The little Lego-like bricks snapped together magnetically and repelled one another when you put them the wrong way, which prevents electric shocks or unintentional meltdowns. The kit is simple enough for children to play with. But Bdeir keeps a black notebook of ideas for future bricks that she hopes will allow customers to make more-complex machines.
She told me that when she received the packaging for her prototype and finally had the total kit in hand, as it would come to customers, she sent her family an e-mail: ''LittleBits exists in the world because of me.'' It was the heralding of the new and a last swipe at her own past: she now could boast of a real and tangible contribution -- something that was because she made it.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 15, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Page 50 this weekend about a do-it-yourself movement in the United States misidentifies an object made by the author, Anand Giridharadas, with the help of a 3-D printing machine. It was, basically, a nut, not a bolt.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (MM50)
Hands On: Ayah Bdeir, the founder and, more significant, creator of littleBits. (MM51)
 Build-a-Brother: Andrew, seated, and Ted Sliwinski in their Detroit workshop. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN FINKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM52) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (77%); ELECTRONICS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PRESSURE SENSORS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



472 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Behind The Greening Of Wal-Mart

BYLINE: By BRYAN BURROUGH

 BODY:
GIVEN our daily struggles with information overload, I suppose it's inevitable that there will always be major, perhaps global, issues that some of us simply don't follow. Bosnia was like that for me. As serious as I knew the situation was, it went on for so long that I finally just gave up.
My latest intellectual Bosnia has been the knot of issues that's come to be known as ''sustainability.'' In this regard, I suspect I'm not alone, especially among business people, many of whom still tend to associate these ideas with increased cost and government regulation. 
The idea that ''going green'' could actually be profitable, a notion put forth by economists as long as 20 years ago, remains a source of skepticism in some quarters. If you still need convincing, pick up Edward Humes's excellent new book, ''Force of Nature'' (Harper Business, 265 pages, $27.99), the story of how the world's largest retailer, Wal-Mart, came to go green. I'll wager that you won't look at sustainability issues quite the same way again. It certainly opened my eyes.
This little book is easily read in two airplane flights, and it's well worth the time. Mr. Humes, a Pulitzer Prize winner in 1989 for articles about the military, tells how Jib Ellison, a onetime California river-rafting guide, all but singlehandedly persuaded Wal-Mart to embrace sustainability as part of its core culture. Starting with a meeting in 2004 with H. Lee Scott Jr., then Wal-Mart's chief executive, Mr. Ellison demonstrated that sustainability wasn't just tree-hugger talk. In its simplest form, sustainability means eliminating waste. And eliminating waste saves money. That got Mr. Scott's attention.
One of Mr. Ellison's first projects for Wal-Mart showed how easily this could be accomplished. He noticed that the colorful cardboard packaging for the company's Chinese-made toy trucks was far larger than needed. He suggested reducing the size, which saved millions of dollars, not to mention hundreds of thousands of tons of cardboard that otherwise would find its way into landfills.
That, in turn, led to a Wal-Mart crusade to reduce packaging size across its product lines, saving the company an estimated $3.4 billion a year -- that's billion with a ''b'' -- while reducing trash. Since that first initiative, Wal-Mart has charted a new green course that's been widely noticed, and imitated, throughout the corporate world.
The company has brought in eco-friendly consultants who have helped find innovative ways to reduce waste almost everywhere, from the use of chemicals to something as simple as installing electrical generators in the trucking fleet, so that refrigerated trucks don't have to idle overnight. In recent years Mr. Scott pushed green initiatives even further, forcing thousands of Wal-Mart suppliers to embrace sustainability as well.
The author makes clear that Wal-Mart did not embark on this course out of a sense of corporate do-goodism. The company, the book says, had long had an insular culture that looked askance at outsiders, especially those who wanted it to change -- and that went double for environmentalists.
At the time Mr. Ellison walked into Mr. Scott's office, the company was being pummeled by a multitude of opponents, from environmentalists to entire city governments, accusing it of driving mom-and-pop retailers out of business, underpaying its ''associates'' and union-busting. Going green has given Wal-Mart a badly needed public-relations boost as it continues to face harsh criticism on those other fronts.
But once Mr. Scott saw that sustainability could be profitable, he went whole hog. Mr. Ellison took Mr. Scott and others on scores of side trips to make his points -- for example, showing an executive in apparel merchandising just how chemical-laden a conventional cotton farm in Turkey was, compared with an organic farm just across the road. If you could sell an organic cotton T-shirt for the same price as the chemically treated shirt -- and you could, Mr. Ellison showed -- why wouldn't you?
Eventually, Wal-Mart came to embrace a wide spectrum of environmental causes, not just for the P.R. and bottom-line benefits, but also, as Mr. Humes demonstrates, for its future. Wal-Mart shoppers are mostly women, and the next generation of women shoppers -- today's teenage girls -- tend to feel very strongly about sustainability issues. If Wal-Mart didn't go green, Mr. Scott told his people, the shoppers of 2020 would quickly go to Target. Mr. Scott retired in 2009, but Wal-Mart's commitment to sustainability has remained strong under his successor, Mike Duke.
THE results have been impressive, on items big and small. According to Mr. Humes, it reduced its overall carbon emissions rate by 16 percent from 2005 to 2008. Wal-Mart's 2010 progress report on sustainability also shows that it sharply reduced its use of plastic bags; donated to food banks 127 million pounds of food that previously would have been discarded; reduced printouts of store reports by 350 million pieces of paper, saving it $20 million; and sharply reduced or eliminated phosphates in the dish and laundry detergents it sells in many countries.
''Force of Nature'' doesn't offer the compelling business narrative of some other books -- there are no boardroom shouting matches, or much drama at all -- but that doesn't matter. Mr. Humes does here what the very best business books do. He finds a good story to help illuminate an issue of surpassing importance.
The book doesn't contain much more information than your average Fortune magazine cover article, but Mr. Humes's prose is almost flawless, lean and clear, egoless and spare. He doesn't deify or demonize Wal-Mart or any of the characters; in fact, he says Wal-Mart's very business model is probably unsustainable. This is first-rate work -- both by the author and by Wal-Mart itself.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (89%); WASTE REDUCTION (85%); AWARDS & PRIZES (68%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (66%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (65%); EXECUTIVES (63%); LANDFILLS (62%); TRUCKING (61%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (95%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (95%)

PERSON: H LEE SCOTT JR (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

TITLE: Force of Nature (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



473 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1756 words

HEADLINE: Down-and-Outs Are Center Stage Once Again

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
IF you're hungering for entertainment that confronts the bruising realities of the current economic climate, it probably wouldn't occur to you to hail the nearest taxi and request that the driver take you to a Broadway theater -- any Broadway theater.
The gleaming old palaces peppering the streets around Times Square are where baby boomers go on Saturday date-nights to relive the radio playlists of the past, right? Where foreign tourists throng to goggle at splashy entertainments that do not require fluency in the English language. Where singing versions of hit movies offer previously marketed and approved flavors of escapism.
All undeniably, increasingly, perhaps irredeemably true. But this season, for the first time in recent memory, the never-never land of Broadway also opened a few grimy windows on the unsettled landscape beyond the precincts of 42nd Street -- itself once a neon barometer of the city and country's economic state, but today a corporate flog-o-sphere about as tethered to the real world as Main Street at Disneyland. In a season marked by an inspiringly strong crop of new work, playwrights and producers had the audacity to bring to Broadway plays that reflect the flinty exigencies of life as it is lived by many -- if not most -- in our money-troubled 21st century. 
All four plays competing for the top Tony award feature protagonists whose lives are shaped by economic hardship in one way or another. The heroine of David Lindsay-Abaire's ''Good People'' faces the possibility of imminent homelessness when she loses her job as a cashier at a dollar store. Stephen Adly Guirgis's scabrous comedy with the unprintable title (''The -------------------- With the Hat'') opens with a scene in which the ex-con protagonist exults in the acquisition of his first job since he's done time, as a porter in an apartment building. Jez Butterworth's ''Jerusalem'' depicts the roistering life of a cheerfully unemployed and unemployable man who may be spiritually rooted in the land he inhabits but cannot claim a legal right to even an inch of it.
And while I am being mildly facetious in suggesting that the protagonist of the sentimental spectacle ''War Horse'' -- this would be the horse named Joey -- is a victim of economic oppression, the fact remains that the poor creature is sold into army service so that the family that owns him can meet its mortgage obligations, a sacrifice that has a weird currency today despite the play's World War I setting.
Broadway's unexpected immersion in working-class lives this season extended beyond the four Tony nominees for best play. Rajiv Joseph's unjustly overlooked ''Bengal Tiger at the Baghdad Zoo'' is fundamentally a surrealist drama about the corrosive effects of violence on all whose lives it touches. But in its depiction of everyday grunts in combat who fall under the poisonous spell of gilded loot, and an Iraqi gardener whose life is traumatized by his interaction with his employer, one of Saddam Hussein's sons, the play shines an unflinching light on characters whose powerlessness makes them victims of larger forces at work in the world. Even last fall's ''Pitmen Painters,'' another London import, told of working men learning how to bring the iridescent light of art into the darkness of their lives as coal miners.
It is unlikely that future seasons are going to bring us contemporary variations on Clifford Odets's ringing dramas about the plight of the working classes, or maybe even Arthur Miller's sternly moralistic plays about the destructive excesses of unbridled capitalism. Nevertheless it seems as if a growing popular sensitivity to the embattled status of Americans on the lower rungs of the economy (or perhaps any but the highest rungs of society) has helped to bring the working-class hero -- employed or not -- back to Broadway stages this season, in plays that are more thought-provoking than cocktail-party-chatter inspiring.Mr. Lindsay-Abaire's keenly observed drama ''Good People'' most directly engages with defining issues of the American moment, the ever-widening chasm between classes and the precarious hold that those on the bottom have on even the slenderest financial stability. In a performance beautifully unencumbered by either condescension or grandstanding, Frances McDormand plays a single mother who knows how close she is to slipping into abject poverty; when, in the play's opening scene, her boss bluntly tells her he has to let her go, Ms. McDormand's Margie instantly offers to take a pay cut she cannot afford, knowing that she and her handicapped daughter are only a single paycheck away from desperate straits.
In her search for new employment, Margie turns to Mike (Tate Donovan), a former boyfriend from her South Boston neighborhood who has made good as a doctor. Mr. Lindsay-Abaire depicts through small but telling details how their divergent economic destinies have left them with little common ground besides the small patch of withered grass that is their shared schoolyard past.
Even casual comments take on a barbed ability to wound. When Mike is gently needled into inviting Margie to his birthday party, he buzzes his secretary to bring in the directions. ''I'll be taking the T,'' Margie says with a hint of an edge in her voice, knowing that the directions would most likely involve the surface route from downtown to a leafy suburb, not public transportation. When Margie arrives unexpectedly at Mike's house, despite the cancellation of the party, his wife mistakes her for the caterer come to clear away the unused party paraphernalia. Margie's status as an alien in the comfortable world inhabited by Mike and his wife isn't something she needs to open her mouth to announce, although her South Boston accent does the trick nicely, too.
In the second act Mr. Lindsay-Abaire springs a few revelations that pitch the play a little too closely toward the territory of soap opera. But the play resonates most movingly with its detailed focus on Margie's plight as she finds herself examining the frayed fabric of a safety net toward which she is quickly plummeting.
Johnny ''Rooster'' Byron, the epically debauched hero of ''Jerusalem'' portrayed with majestic bravado by Mark Rylance, has long since plunged through that safety net. Landing in a trailer that he has parked with no legal authority in a forest at the edge of a fancy new housing development, he lays claim to a spiritual patrimony -- a belief in the Englishman's right to live his life as he likes -- that pits him against the rigid proprieties of the aspiring classes who have lost touch with the pagan beauty once abroad in the land.
The voices of BBC announcers may now come in a variety of flavors, but Mr. Butterworth's ''Jerusalem'' makes it corrosively clear that modern Britain remains an unwelcoming place for those who don't conform to its social norms. The local government is determined to expunge Rooster. They see him, naturally enough it must be admitted, as a public menace to the local youth, to whom he deals drugs with the benevolent charity of a kindly host dispensing chocolates at a children's birthday party.
Mr. Butterworth resists tendentious moralizing about the state of the country, although Rooster tosses off a tart joke or two on the subject of the stalled economy. But the determination of one of the play's characters to emigrate to Australia, and the general aimlessness of the other post-adolescents in Rooster's unofficial posse, point up the barren future most of them face. When the promise of a triumphantly growing economy has been exposed as a tall tale, it's hardly a wonder that these lovable roustabouts should find comfort in Rooster's equally plausible -- and vastly more entertaining -- tales of mythic giants promising magical salvation.
For both Rooster's hangers-on and the anxiety-ridden urban dwellers in Mr. Guirgis's sensationally entertaining comedy -- which wins my vote for the best new play of the Broadway season -- the escape route of choice is the voracious consumption of recreational drugs. Both plays accept as a natural (if lamentable) fact of contemporary culture that people with limited opportunities to better their lives will settle for the temporary release that intoxicants can provide, ignoring the more destructive consequences until their capacities give out or the law catches up with them.
Mr. Guirgis's play, set in a trio of time-worn Manhattan apartments of similar cramped dimensions, depicts the frantic efforts of the ex-con Jackie, played with searing intensity by Bobby Cannavale, to keep his life from unraveling in his jittery hands. Jackie has joined a 12-step program and is committed to staying clean. He's got that newly acquired job, too. But he flies into an annihilating rage when he spies an unfamiliar men's hat on the table in the apartment of his longtime girlfriend, Veronica (the fiery Elizabeth Rodriguez).
As smart as it is torturously funny, Mr. Guirgis's play shows how men and women, lovers and friends, can betray each other and their own best selves for reasons as irrational as they are human. It's by no means a social problem play, but small, telling details signal that Jackie and Veronica were and are harried by small cares and dependent on the charity of their relatives for basics. (Her mother paid the cable bill; his mother bought the bed.)
Jackie's sudden flare-up into an explosive fit of jealousy, a tempest that threatens to destroy his life before he has even begun to salvage it, is so reckless that we sense its deep roots in his soul-warping self-doubt. He's haunted by a feeling that the game is somehow stacked against him, a hopelessness arising from a lifetime of mistakes and bungled chances. But Jackie's bent for self-destruction may also stem from his citizenship in a country of straitened circumstances, one that now offers fewer and fewer opportunities to those not born to them.
It didn't occur to me as I watched them, but it seems funny, and somehow apt, that three of the four plays in contention for best play feature working-class heroes or heroines who never actually work. Only Joey, that indomitable thoroughbred in ''War Horse,'' is profitably employed.
Then again, he's the hero of a period piece. If Joey were looking for employment today, maybe he'd be as luckless or discouraged as Jackie and Margie. Or perhaps he'd have given up the battle entirely and joined the friendly but feckless menagerie circling around Rooster, indulging in nightly rave-ups as the next apocalypse approaches.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Scenes from ''Good People'': top, from left, Becky Ann Baker, Frances McDormand and Estelle Parsons
bottom, Ms. McDormand, Renee Elise Goldsberry and Tate Donovan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(AR8)
 Bobby Cannavale in Stephen Adly Guirgis's new play, ''The ---------------------- With the Hat.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOAN MARCUS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(AR13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); THEATER (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); HOMELESSNESS (63%); WORLD WAR I (60%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (56%); BABY BOOMERS (56%); WRITERS (51%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



474 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Bringing the High Line Back To Earth

BYLINE: By WITOLD RYBCZYNSKI. 
Witold Rybczynski, a professor of urbanism at the University of Pennsylvania, is the author of ''Makeshift Metropolis.''

 BODY:
THE second section of the High Line, the park built atop an abandoned elevated rail trestle on the west side of Manhattan, is scheduled to open next month. Like a movie sequel, High Line II will have some things that are the same -- more of those neat high-tech concrete planks underfoot and ''peel-up'' benches -- as well as some things that are different: a ''woodland flyover'' of dense vegetation; a lawn; and a dramatic glass cutout exposing traffic on the street below. Food carts and something called a wine porch are promised, as well as a Renzo Piano-designed restaurant.
The second phase will undoubtedly receive as much news media hoopla and public enthusiasm as the first, which opened in 2009. But its designers want it to be even more, a model for a new sort of town planning, dubbed ''landscape urbanism.'' Indeed, High Line-type projects are being discussed for Chicago (the Bloomingdale Trail), Philadelphia (the Reading Viaduct), Jersey City (the Sixth Street Embankment) and St. Louis (the Iron Horse Trestle). 
Advocates would like to see the High Line model take off nationwide in the same way Central Park was copied in the 19th century. But that's a tougher proposition than they think, and it probably won't be worth the effort.
The use of landscapes to influence urban development dates back 150 years, to when Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux laid out Central Park, so it is not entirely clear that landscape urbanism is really so new. Nor is the idea of elevated linear parks built on old railroad tracks: it actually originated in Paris in 1988 with the design of the Promenade Plantee, a 2.8-mile-long series of gardens built atop an abandoned railway viaduct in the Right Bank's 12th Arrondissement, anchored by the Opera Bastille at one end and the Bois de Vincennes at the other.
The Promenade Plantee and the High Line are similar: although its landscaping is more traditional than that of the relentlessly hip High Line, the Promenade is likewise tightly squeezed between buildings. And unlike Olmsted's parks, which were intended to provide a green escape from urban bustle, they both offer a new way of experiencing the city -- from above. It is the unexpected views of surrounding buildings that make walking the High Line such a memorable experience.
And herein lies the problem. The High Line may be a landscaping project, but a good part of its success is due to its architectural setting, which, like the 12th Arrondissement, is crowded with interesting old and new buildings. The park courses through the meatpacking district and Chelsea, heavily populated, high-energy residential neighborhoods. Very few American cities -- and Manhattan is the densest urban area in the country -- can offer the same combination of history and density.
In other words, while the High Line's success may seem to be an instance of ''build it and they will come,'' in New York, as in Paris, ''they'' are already there -- living in the surrounding neighborhoods, working in the close-packed office buildings, touristing.
Moreover, while the High Line may have become a fashionable distraction for out-of-town visitors, it succeeds because it offers a green outlet to its many neighbors, who, like Parisians, live in small apartments. In no other American city do residents rely so much on communal green space, rather than backyards, for relaxation.
The High Line model is expensive, too. The first two phases cost $152 million; $44 million of this was raised from private and corporate sources, and the not-inconsiderable maintenance costs are to be covered partly by the city and partly by a proposed tax on local businesses. With the possible exception of Chicago, there are very few cities, particularly in the current economic climate, that could match such fund-raising abilities. And it is unlikely that a High Line-like park could be built on the cheap; a big part of its attraction lies precisely in the quality of its materials and details and the richness of its plantings.
American cities are always looking for quick fixes to revive their moribund downtowns. Sadly, the dismal record of failed urban design strategies is long: downtown shopping malls, pedestrianized streets, underground passages, skyways, monorails, festival marketplaces, downtown stadiums -- and that most elusive fix of all, iconic cultural buildings. It appears likely that we will soon be adding elevated parks to the list.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BRIAN CRONIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (89%); RESTAURANTS (70%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%)

COMPANY: IRON HORSE (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



475 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Leading the Blind

BYLINE: By LIAQUAT AHAMED. 
Liaquat Ahamed is the author of ''Lords of Finance: The Bankers Who Broke the World,'' which won the 2010 Pulitzer Prize for history.

 BODY:
THE WIZARD OF LIES
Bernie Madoff and the Death of Trust
By Diana B. Henriques
419 pp. Times Books/Henry Holt & Company. $30.
Ever since the Madoff scandal broke in December 2008, the public has been morbidly fascinated by the affair. How had so ordinary a man pulled off the largest swindle in history? How had he gotten away with it for so long? Then there were the casualties. In contrast to so many other financial scandals of the last 20 years, those who lost money this time were not just impersonal institutions -- they were real people. And what a spectrum of the world: Jewish philanthropists from the Upper East Side; almost half the membership of the Palm Beach Country Club; rich South Americans; retired accountants living in Florida; the demimonde of Monaco; even, it was whispered, figures from the Russian mafia and the Colombian drug cartels. Some of us could imagine ourselves among the victims; others found a certain voyeuristic pleasure in the financial travails of the rich and famous. 
Finally the man himself and his family. Within days it became known that it was Madoff's own sons who had turned him in to the F.B.I. From the start, therefore, it was evident that we were witnessing an almost Sophoclean family tragedy. As for Bernie Madoff, what sort of man lay behind that sphinxlike smile, and how had he coped for so many years with the psychological pressure of living with such a gigantic falsehood? ''The Wizard of Lies,'' by Diana B. Henriques, a senior financial writer for The New York Times, makes for riveting reading because it covers all these dimensions. And although there is much that we can never know, this book comes closer than others have to answering at least some of our questions.
Madoff's story has by now been told and retold many times, in newspapers and magazines, on television and in several books. After starting on Wall Street in the early 1960s, he built an apparently successful broker-dealer firm. As a side business he began managing money for other people, at first informally, for friends and family. His results were good but not spectacular. Most important, he never lost money (or so it seemed). How he generated these returns was always a mystery -- he claimed to be offsetting the downside risks of his stock purchases by selectively using options to hedge the portfolio. But the very secrecy added to his mystique. Through word of mouth he soon began attracting outside investors, spawning a cottage industry of various types of feeder funds that channeled assets his way.
At some point (no one is quite certain when; Madoff claims it was not until the early '90s, while Henriques believes it to have been earlier), after losing money, rather than come clean to his clients, he fudged the numbers, hoping to recoup the losses later and get back on track. Instead he ended up digging himself into an ever deeper hole. After a while, the chasm between what he claimed to investors and what was actually in their accounts became so deep that he stopped even bothering to invest the cash, relying on money from new clients to pay out fictitious returns to older clients -- the classic Ponzi scheme.
Henriques has been reporting on Madoff since he was initially exposed and was the first reporter to be granted on-/the-/record interviews with him after his arrest and incarceration. She probably knows more than anyone outside the F.B.I. and the Securities and Exchange Commission about the mechanics of the fraud. As a consequence, in ''The Wizard of Lies'' she is able to add significant detail to the story.
To fool his investors and any regulators who happened to come sniffing around, Madoff built a Potemkin-/like investment operation complete with traders at fake terminals pretending to buy and sell stocks and a bogus paper trail of transactions and accounting reports.
Ponzi schemes can survive only by growing -- in fact by growing exponentially. Even a leveling off or a slight slowdown in the pace of money coming in can threaten the viability of the entire scam. Henriques reveals how the operation came close to falling apart on several occasions, first after the stock market collapse of 1987, then again during the recession of the early 1990s, and yet again after the tech bubble burst in 2000. Each time, just as Madoff's fraudulent enterprise seemed to be on the verge of breaking down, a new source of money was found.
Not everyone was duped. There were plenty of danger signals for those who cared to dig. The accounting firm Madoff employed to audit his books was a one-man operation run from an office park in the New York suburbs; the volume of option trading entailed by the amount of money he was supposedly managing would have far exceeded the capacity of the derivatives market; and the returns he claimed to be generating were far too steady and reliable to be plausible. The S.E.C. was alerted several times that something fishy was going on. But inadequately staffed as it was, it was never quite able to connect the dots. Henriques reveals how tantalizingly close the agency came time and again to uncovering the fraud. Many of Madoff's investors themselves suspected that he might be sailing close to the wind. But believing that if he was breaking the law it was at someone else's expense, and fearing what they might bring to light, they chose not to delve too deeply.
In the end the story holds us not because of the engrossing details of the scam, but because of its human dimension. ''The Wizard of Lies'' begins by reconstructing the events of that grim week in December 2008 during which Madoff broke down and confessed to his wife, Ruth, and two sons that the shadowy investment advisory business he had been running on the side had for decades been a giant Ponzi scheme. It is a harrowing scene. His son Mark, who will later kill himself on the second anniversary of his father's arrest, is ''blind with fury.'' The other son, Andrew, ''prostrate,'' ''slumps to the floor in tears''; at another point he wraps his arms around Madoff and tells him that what he has wrought upon them is ''a father-/son betrayal of biblical proportions.'' Henriques clearly does not believe that Ruth, Mark and Andrew were complicit in the extraordinary fraud. The family, like Madoff's clients, obviously chose not to ask too many questions about where all the money was coming from. But in Henriques's telling, they were not among the criminals, and she concludes with an impassioned challenge to the way they have been subsequently demonized.
A Ponzi scheme is the opposite of a perfect crime; detection is inevitable because eventually the numbers become unsustainable. Henriques paints a vivid picture of Madoff as this truth closes in on him in the last year of his operation. With client withdrawals accelerating and new investments drying up, as he scrambles to raise the impossibly huge amounts of money he needs to plug the hole, he finally realizes that the jig is up, and that it is only a matter of time before he will be destroyed. Madoff emerges here not as some master criminal, but as a sad, hapless man who, lacking the character to tell the truth at the critical moment, stumbled foolishly and blindly into one of the crimes of the century. He is less a personification of the crass greed that lay behind the recent bubble decade and more the embodiment of our infinite capacity for self-delusion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH OF BERNARD L. MADOFF (FOREGROUND) BY CHRIS HONDROS/GETTY IMAGES
 MARCH 12, 2009) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); CARTELS (78%); WRITERS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); ORGANIZED CRIME (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%)

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



476 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: Laura DiBetta, Gregory Hopper

 BODY:
Laura Lynn DiBetta and Gregory John Hopper were married Thursday on the beach at Magens Bay on St. Thomas in the United States Virgin Islands. The Rev. Jeffrey Neevel, a minister of the Reform Church in America, officiated. 
Ms. DiBetta, 35, is keeping her name. She is a program manager for the Land Trust Accreditation Commission, a nonprofit organization in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. She reviews applications for accreditation from land-conservation groups and also manages public communications for the commission. She graduated magna cum laude from the State University at Albany, where she is studying for a master's certificate in urban policy.
She is the daughter of Rosann Lucy DiBetta and Anthony Carlo DiBetta of Little Neck, Queens. The bride's father retired as a mathematics teacher at Queens Vocational Technical High School in Sunnyside, Queens. He is now a singer who performs at restaurants and private parties in Queens and on Long Island.
Mr. Hopper, 37, is a director at Advanced Network Services, a telecommunications company in Menands, N.Y. He is responsible for the management of field and training personnel.
He is a son of Sharon Louise Hopper and George E. Hopper Sr. of Oneida, N.Y. The bridegroom's mother retired as a registered nurse and administrator from the Oneida Health Care Center, a hospital there. His father retired from the New York State Police as a trooper; he was assigned to Troop D in Oneida.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); ACCREDITATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); HEALTH CARE (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (68%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (68%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (68%); POLICE FORCES (66%); NURSES & NURSING (65%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



477 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Credit Error? It Pays to Be On V.I.P. List

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
The credit rating bureaus, whose reports influence everything from credit cards to mortgages to job offers, have a two-tiered system for resolving errors -- one for the rich, the well-connected, the well-known and the powerful, and the other for everyone else.
The three major agencies, Equifax, Experian and TransUnion, keep a V.I.P. list of sorts, according to consumer lawyers and legal documents, consisting of celebrities, politicians, judges and other influential people. Those on the list -- and they may not even realize they are on it -- get special help from workers in the United States in fixing mistakes on their credit reports. Any errors are usually corrected immediately, one lawyer said.
For everyone else, disputes are herded into a largely automated system. Their complaints are often electronically ferried to a subcontractor overseas, where a worker spends, on average, about two minutes figuring out the gist of the matter, boiling it down to a one-to-three-digit computer code that signifies the problem -- ''account not his/hers,'' for example -- and sending a dispute form to the creditor to investigate. Many times, consumer advocates say, the investigation translates to a perfunctory check of its records. 
''The legal responsibility of the credit reporting agencies and of the creditors is well established,'' said Leonard Bennett, a consumer lawyer in Newport News, Va. ''There is a requirement that they do meaningful research and analysis, and it is almost never done.''
Consumers who have trouble fixing errors through the dispute process can quickly find themselves trapped in a Kafkaesque no man's land, where the only escape is through the court system.
''You are guilty before you are proven innocent in a situation like this,'' said Catherine Taylor, 45, of Benton, Ark., who said she had been denied employment and credit because her filing was mixed up with a felon who had the same name and birthday.
Judy Johnson of Bossier City, La., was confused with a less creditworthy Judith Johnson, with a similar address and Social Security number. For nearly seven years, Judy Johnson, a 63-year-old credit manager for a building supply company, said she tried to remove the black marks from her credit report. But when she was denied a credit card, she knew the problem had returned -- a third time. ''This time, I was livid,'' she said.
She ultimately brought a suit against one of the bureaus, and recently settled for an amount she cannot disclose. But the problems still linger. A deputy sheriff recently came to her door to serve her papers for a debt she says she does not owe.
The credit rating bureaus, private-sector companies that each attempt to track all American consumers' credit use, have grown much more powerful over the last couple of decades as credit has become a crucial cog in the nation's financial system. Their reports are used to formulate the all-powerful credit score, which lenders use to determine creditworthiness.
But as the bureaus' work has become more important, consumer advocates say, regulation has not kept up, in large part because their overseer, the Federal Trade Commission, lacks broad authority. That could change once responsibility for the credit bureaus shifts to the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which will be able to write rules and examine the credit agencies' policies.
The bureaus, meanwhile, do not have an economic incentive to improve the system, consumer advocates say, because their main customers are the creditors, not consumers.
''There is no neutrality in the credit reporting agencies,'' said John Ulzheimer, who has been an expert witness in more than 80 credit-related cases and is president of consumer education at SmartCredit.com. ''They work for the lenders who buy credit reports from them, and anyone who suggests otherwise is not being intellectually honest.''
When asked about the V.I.P. category, TransUnion said all consumers ''have the ability to speak to a live representative.'' Equifax said consumers who received a free copy of their credit report were provided with a number for customer service.
Experian denied that it had V.I.P. lists. But a spokeswoman did say that prominent people deemed high risk -- like politicians in an election year -- might have their credit files taken offline so that creditors or other companies making inquiries could not get access without the bureau's permission. Experian said those people did not receive any other special handling.
David Szwak, a consumer lawyer in Shreveport, La., who has handled dozens of credit cases, said that the V.I.P. designation and preferential treatment did exist at Experian, and he provided sworn testimony from former Experian employees that the category existed.
Estimates of credit reports with serious errors vary widely, anywhere from 3 to 25 percent. A recent study, paid for by the Consumer Data Industry Association, the trade group for the bureaus, found potential errors in 19.2 percent of reports, but said that less than 1 percent of them had disputes that, when settled, resulted in a meaningful increase in scores. Even 1 percent translates into millions of consumers, since there are at least 200 million files at each of the bureaus.
The F.T.C. is expected to deliver a nationwide study on credit report accuracy next year that could provide more clarity. It could also include recommendations for legislative action.
The volume of disputes has been rising as consumers borrow more and gain greater access to credit reports. The automated system was a response to that. A spokesman for the trade group said most consumers received an answer within 14 days.
Experian is the only bureau that still processes disputes in the United States, experts said, though most complaints wind their way through the same online system -- unless the dispute involves a V.I.P.
''They get a lot more high-end treatment,'' said Mr. Szwak, the lawyer, who has read the bureaus' internal procedure manuals and deposed or cross-examined employees. The biggest difference at TransUnion and Equifax, lawyers said, is that V.I.P.'s disputes are specially handled domestically. Regular consumers' files, meanwhile, may get priority treatment if they involve a time-sensitive issue, like a mortgage pending, or if the consumer is represented by a lawyer or dealing with fraud.
Last year, new rules went into effect to strengthen existing regulations on the accuracy of reports. The rules also allow consumers to dispute errors directly with the creditor. But critics say the rule lacks any teeth because consumers don't have the right to sue the companies. (Individuals can, however, sue the bureaus and creditors after lodging a dispute through their system.)
But the problem, advocates say, is that consumers cannot vote with their feet. ''They cannot remove their information from the bureaus,'' said Chi Chi Wu, a staff lawyer at the National Consumer Law Center, who wrote a report on the automated dispute process in 2009, ''or take their business elsewhere.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Judy Johnson says she has had years of trouble because credit bureaus keep mixing up her records with Judith Johnson's. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (90%); LAWYERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); SHERIFFS (66%); FELONIES (63%); BUILDING SUPPLY (50%)

COMPANY: EQUIFAX INC (90%)

TICKER: EFX (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



478 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1734 words

HEADLINE: The Flea Marketing of New York

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
THEY came for freshly shucked oysters and straight-off-the-leg prosciutto. They came for clacking vintage typewriters and old LPs repurposed as dog tags and bracelets. And they came, to the Brooklyn Flea in Fort Greene last Saturday, searching for meaning and connection in their rudderless lives.
''Flea markets proliferate a volume of goods needing to be sold and people who are hungry -- emotionally and aesthetically -- to sort out the meaning of life,'' said Michael Prokopow, a history professor at the Ontario College of Art and Design University in Toronto, who teaches a course called ''Stuff,'' about things and their meaning. ''For most people who go on these ritualized scavenger hunts looking for something that they may not know exists, it is a kind of pilgrims' process through the detritus of the past.''
O.K. So, maybe the situation is not quite that deep. But in recent years, with nearly half a dozen major flea markets springing up across the city, the flea marketing of New York is all but complete. 
There is the Brooklyn Flea -- actually two flea markets, one in Fort Greene every Saturday and, new this year, another in Williamsburg every Sunday. There is the Hell's Kitchen Flea Market every weekend, with its gourmet food truck bazaar every second Sunday of the month. There is the Antiques Garage and the West 25th Street Market in Chelsea.
There is the Hester Street Fair in the shadow of Seward Park on the Lower East Side, now in its second year, and the Green Flea all the way up and across town on Columbus Avenue. Dekalb Market, which is set to open this summer in Brooklyn, will feature shipping container storefronts, with vendors selling their wares in what look like urban, Jurassic-size building blocks. And on Saturday BK Festival flea market in Coney Island was to kick off its inaugural season.
The Coney Island flea, according to its owners, Tom Brady and Tom Walker, will distinguish itself with a state fair atmosphere -- carnival and pony rides, concerts, car shows, food. But there will be absolutely no hot dogs, out of respect for Nathan's, the men said in a phone interview, referring to the longtime Coney Island hot-dog seller.
In a city that thrums with opportunity and a veritable buffet of wonderful things to do -- theaters! museums! parks! -- flea markets have somehow emerged as many people's first choice of a way to spend the weekend. On Brooklyn Flea's opening weekend, about 25,000 people filed through the Fort Greene and Williamsburg markets, according to the organizers, and SuChin Pak, a founder of the current Hester Street Fair, estimated that 11,000 people came to her market's opening day this year.
Originally named after the marches aux puces -- the markets of fleas -- on the outskirts of Paris in the late 19th century, flea markets in New York have always been the playground of the city's creative class. Andy Warhol, among other writers and artists, was known to haunt the Chelsea market. But now the markets have become true scenes, places to see, shop and be seen, all while washing down a $15 lobster roll with some home-brewed hibiscus soda.
The trend has gotten so over the top that, in a video shown in city taxis, the ''NBC Nightly News'' anchor Brian Williams simultaneously mocked and recommended flea markets to tourists, saying, ''Go to one of those Marrakesh-like outdoor artisanal markets.''
''Brooklyn's a festival this time of year,'' Mr. Williams said. ''They're openly making handmade grilled cheese sandwiches, all kinds of leather goods, tin, silver. It's like a walk back in time!''
WHAT, exactly, is behind the new flea market hegemony? While the foundering economy, the banality of strip-mall and big-box shopping, and the generally whimsical and serendipitous aura of flea markets have all played a role in their popularity, the real reasons behind their rise in New York City are more complicated and hardwired than even the most well-trained scavenger or vintage aficionado might expect, experts say.
Eric Demby, one of the founders of the Brooklyn Flea: ''It's kind of old-fashioned, and it's about people interacting in the real world, which I think people crave more and more. The more online we go, the more offline interaction becomes a kind of romantic thing.''
Paul Moore, a professor of communication at Ryerson University in Toronto, who studies the history of the mass market: ''Personal taste needs an urban space for fashion, like a flea market with an element of playfulness and randomness and spontaneity. We've got a nostalgia for outmoded, outdated and anachronistic items, especially when they've all been replaced by technologies.''
Old phones, old typewriters, old record players and old cameras, Professor Moore said, are popular among fleagoers. ''There's kind of an amusement value in owning something that has no use anymore,'' he said.
And according to Professor Prokopow, the ''Stuff'' instructor, ''It's this sort of idea of material self-fashioning, a self-curation of life.''
(Another interesting question: Why do so many flea-market experts seem to hail from Canada?)
More than for any goods or services, people often go to flea markets searching for some ineffable quality in an item they recognize only when they see it, like the mid-century modern candy dish their grandmother always set out, or a Rainbow Brite plastic lunchbox that transports them back to a simpler time. And in the process of picking over other people's junk, they are telling the world something about themselves: ''I'm the type of person who ironically buys vintage 'Star Wars' figurines,'' they seem to say, or ''I'm the type of person who appreciates a handcrafted farmers' table, and homemade lamps made from Mason jars.''
(In the course of reporting, this reporter was the type of person who bought a vintage, vaguely cowgirlesque, blue button-down shirt; a bottle of homemade ginger syrup; a shimmery silver Whiting & Davis purse that broke less than a week later when the reporter was running for a taxi; and upward of $30 in snacks.)
It also didn't hurt that the inception of some of the newer, trendier flea markets coincided with the rise of the locavore, do-it-yourself and epicurean movements in the city.
Food occupies a significant space at many of the markets, with vendors selling items like Korean tacos, artisanal popsicles, entire pizzas with fresh toppings and, yes, even oysters.
''I think I'm taking my chances, but that's O.K.; life's short,'' said Jane Keilty, 58, standing at the Fort Greene flea below a large ''Oyster girl'' pinup poster that read, ''Brooklyn Fish Camp.'' Ms. Keilty, in town from Massachusetts to visit her daughter for Mother's Day, ordered ''one of each,'' slurped the oysters out of their shells and turned to a woman waiting for her order.
''Those were great -- so fresh,'' she said. ''It's such a great day to be outside and eating oysters.''
Many of the flea markets have actively encouraged a food component as a way to attract new faces, and Mr. Demby and his partner are opening a food-only market on May 21 in their Williamsburg space, which will be called Smorgasburg.
The markets also provide an inexpensive and low-stakes testing ground for vendors to try out their wares and to perfect their recipes. Ms. Pak glided around the Hester Street Fair stands on opening day this month, pointing out vendors who had gotten their start there, like the family of empanada makers who have elevated their recipe to perfection. There was also the stand with creatively stuffed risotto balls that are now the ideal size and consistency.
Simon Tung, a founder of the Macaron Parlour, which features flavors like candied bacon with maple cream cheese and Thai chili, started at the fair's inaugural weekend last year and already has a regular following. On opening day, an adorable 4 1/2-year-old boy named Charles zipped up on a scooter, wearing a fake-leather jacket cuffed to reveal plaid sleeves.
''Why don't you open up your hand, little guy,'' Mr. Tung said, placing a blue Earl Grey macaron -- Charles's favorite -- in his palm. ''He's the only kid under 12 who likes Earl Grey, but then again, he's a sophisticated hipster kid,'' Mr. Tung said later, with a laugh.
Charles's mom, Sasha Safdiah, 34, said she, her husband and their two sons lived down the street and ''have never missed a weekend when it's open.'' As her younger son accidentally tried to climb into the wrong stroller and her husband whisked him up in his arms, she added: ''They have food and antiques and jewelry, so it's a good mix. It's not just old clothes.''
Which brings us to the ''curated'' concept. Mr. Demby and Ms. Pak stress the thought-out nature of their markets, where vendors are carefully chosen for their diverse array of goods and quality level -- but some still have undercurrents of more traditional fleas, what are dismissively called the ''tube socks and wrench set.'' At the far end of the Hell's Kitchen Flea Market one day, a man was hawking ''cuticle nail and mustache scissors,'' and at the other end, a seller began yelling at a woman who had dismissed his estate sale clothes as junk.
''You looking for brand new junk?'' he huffed. ''Go to Bloomingdale's. Go down to Chinatown. You can get new junk there.''
ON the whole, however, the new flea markets are a freewheeling space for self-expression. With a camera slung around his neck, Sung Min, 23, scanned the racks of vintage clothes at the Brooklyn Flea in Williamsburg on a sunny afternoon. In many ways, Mr. Min was the physical embodiment of the flea market aesthetic -- he wore a typewriter key ring and a sleeveless old T-shirt, both flea purchases, as he talked about the ''unique'' and ''cheaper'' clothes he likes to buy there.
''Also, you can have special styles, like him,'' Mr. Min said, gesturing to a man wearing green coveralls.
''I'm always amazed by these groups of cool young people, wandering around, looking for stuff, and I think, 'If you didn't have this venue, your performance of yourself wouldn't be as complete,' '' Professor Prokopow said. He described the phenomenon as ''I have something that no one else has. I was different before I got this fantastic blank, but now my differentness is borne on my shoulders.''
But could flea market fatigue soon be upon us? ''As long as there are things and people,'' Professor Prokopow said, ''there will always be places where used things and used people can go.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Brooklyn Flea on the Williamsburg waterfront.
Checking out bangles and necklaces on West 25th Street.
Where classic LPs go to be rescued from the trash bin.
Handmade cheese at the Green Flea in Manhattan.
Looking for bargains at the Hell's Kitchen Flea Market.
A freewheeling space for colorful self-expression. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Trying out cool glasses is a flea market tradition.
For sale: clothing fitting even the smallest budget.
Taking a break with an ice bar at the Hester Street Fair. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1)
VISIBILITY: Markets like the Brooklyn Flea, above, on Lafayette Avenue, offer a chance to see and be seen. Left, browsing through typesetting blocks at the Hell's Kitchen Flea Market. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 VINTAGE: The West 25th Street flea market in 1965. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALLYN BAUM/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (90%); FESTIVALS (86%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (78%); RETAILERS (76%); HISTORY (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (67%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (65%); INTERVIEWS (60%)

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (55%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (55%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



479 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3216 words

HEADLINE: Foods With Benefits, or So They Say

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
START in Aisle 2, third shelf from the bottom: here is grape juice for your heart. Over to Aisle 4: there are frozen carrots for your eyes.
In Aisle 5: vitamin-packed water for your immune system. In the dairy case: probiotic yogurt for your insides and milk for your brain.
Push a cart through the D'Agostino store in Midtown Manhattan, or any supermarket anywhere in America, and you just might start believing in miracles -- or at least in miracle foods.
In aisle after aisle, wonders beckon. Foods and drinks to help your heart, lower your cholesterol, trim your tummy, coddle your colon. Toss them into your cart and you might feel better. Heck, you might even live longer. 
Or not. Because this, shoppers, is the question: Are all these products really healthy, or are some of them just hyped?
The answer to that question matters to millions of Americans who are wagering their money and their waistlines on hot new products in the grocery aisles called ''functional foods.''
Food giants like Dannon, Kellogg and General Mills don't claim these products actually prevent or cure diseases. Such declarations would run afoul of federal regulations. Nor do they sell them as medical foods, which are intended to be consumed under a doctor's supervision.
Rather, food companies market functional foods with health-promoting or wellness-maintaining properties. Such claims are perfectly legal, provided that they are backed up by some credible science.
All those heart-healthy red hearts on your box of Quaker Oats cereal or that can of Planters peanuts? That happy-colon yellow arrow on the tub of Activia yogurt? It's all part of the marketing of functional food.
Over the past decade, despite all those sales pitches for ''natural,'' ''organic'' and ''whole'' foods, functional food has turned into a big business for Big Food. And more Americans are buying into the functional story. Sales of these foods and beverages totaled $37.3 billion in the United States in 2009, up from $28.2 billion in 2005, according to estimates from the Nutrition Business Journal, a market research firm.
But as sales soar, federal regulators worry that some packaged foods that scream healthy on their labels are in fact no healthier than many ordinary brands. Federal Trade Commission officials have been cracking down on products that, in their view, make dubious or exaggerated claims. Overwhelmed regulators concede that they are struggling to police this booming market, despite recent settlements with makers of brands like Kellogg's Rice Krispies and Dannon's Activia, which the authorities say oversold their health benefits.
Consumer advocates and some nutritionists are equally blunt. They say shoppers are being bamboozled by slick marketing. Many people grab products with healthy claims on the front of the package and overlook crucial nutritional information, like calorie counts, in the small print on the back.
''Functional foods, they are not about health,'' says Marion Nestle, a professor of nutrition, food studies and public health at New York University. ''They are about marketing.''
Walk through any supermarket, and you'll see what Ms. Nestle means.
Here in Aisle 2 is a box of Quaker Oatmeal Squares cereal, made by the Quaker Oats Company. The front of the box, in large white print, proclaims: ''Oatmeal helps reduce cholesterol!'' Scientists generally agree that fiber can be good for your heart. But read the adjacent smaller print, which the Food and Drug Administration requires, and you'll find that one serving of Quaker Oatmeal Squares contains only a third of the amount of soluble fiber needed daily to help reduce the risk of heart disease. In other words, you may have to eat three bowls of cereal daily -- 630 calories' worth, without milk -- to benefit.
Down the aisle is Welch's 100% Grape Juice, with no fat and emblazoned with a red-heart certification from the American Heart Association. An eight-ounce glass has 36 grams of sugar; a regular-sized Snickers, by comparison, has 30.
No one is saying that these products are unsafe or unhealthy, or that there isn't science behind them. But nutritionists like Ms. Nestle contend that the kaleidoscopic array of functional foods on offer, with all those different claims, has left many consumers confused about the products' actual health value. And, in some cases, regulators say, manufacturers are bending, or even breaking, the rules about how they market these products.
''If people can't rely on even the most trusted food brands to have good science backing up their claims, who can they rely on?'' asks Mary K. Engle, the director of the advertising practices division at the Federal Trade Commission in Washington.
''LET food be thy medicine, and medicine be thy food,'' Hippocrates said 2,500 years ago. We've always known that some foods are better for us than others. But it took a little science and a lot of marketing to turn the concept into a global, multibillion-dollar industry.
The idea isn't new. Coca-Cola was first sold as a nerve tonic. In 1897, C. W. Post pitched Grape-Nuts as ''a food for brain and nerve centers.'' Over the years, manufacturers have added iodine to salt to combat goiter, and Vitamin D to milk to fight rickets. The 1960s turned bean sprouts and nuts into health food. In the '70s, Dannon, in a commercial that seems tame by today's standards, said people in Soviet Georgia ate a lot of yogurt and, guess what? Many of them lived past 100.
Today, companies promote myriad processed foods that have been loaded with vitamins and nutrients, or contain a potentially beneficial ingredient, as wellness aids. For many, these healthified foods have become the new health food. Many Americans are willing to pay a premium for ready-to-eat, ready-to-heat and on-the-go foods that seem to promise shortcuts to healthier living.
Manufacturers prefer to think of their products as foods with added benefits, from reduced-fat snacks and desserts to enhanced dairy items.
In Mexico, for example, Nestle has introduced a fermented milk drink called Svelty Gastro Protect to help control certain bacteria that can cause stomach inflammation. In the United States, the company markets Dreyer's Slow Churned, a reduced-fat ice cream designed to increase satiety.
''We are not adding a small magic compound that is going to have health activity,'' says Laurent Fay, head of the nutrition and health department at the Nestle Research Center in Lausanne, Switzerland. ''We are targeting our science toward benefits and, for each of these benefits, we develop a research program.''
Economists have a term for these sorts of products: credence goods. Most people can't evaluate the claims for such products, like functional foods and medical treatments. So they rely on experts and regulators.
''The majority of American consumers really believe in the concept that certain foods provide benefits that go beyond basic nutrition or reduce the risk of disease,'' says Wendy Reinhardt-Kapsak, the senior director of health and wellness at the International Food Information Council, an industry-financed group specializing in health and nutrition information. ''Most of the big companies are making those claims within the letter of the law.''
Most, regulators say, but not all. Over the last two years, the F.T.C., which oversees food advertising, has filed complaints of deceptive marketing against Kellogg, Dannon and a subsidiary of Nestle.
None of the companies have admitted wrongdoing. But each has separately settled with the agency, agreeing to certain restrictions on health-related claims.
The agency's concern, says David C. Vladeck, director of its bureau of consumer protection, is not only that people might be paying more for foods that are no more healthful than other brands. At a time when millions lack health insurance, he also worries that people who buy foods that, for instance, claim to bolster immunity or reduce the risk of prostate cancer might forgo a flu shot or a doctor's visit.
''If people are going to spend their money for health benefits,'' Mr. Vladeck says, ''they ought to get them.''
Still, regulators at the Food and Drug Administration, which oversees food labeling, say it has been hard to curb every questionable claim.
Michael R. Taylor, the F.D.A.'s deputy commissioner for foods, has acknowledged that the agency is acutely aware that as soon as it proves that one claim is misleading, savvy market-types may dream up another. ''Going after them one by one with the legal and resource restraints we work under is a little like playing Whac-A-Mole, with one hand tied behind your back,'' Mr. Taylor wrote last year on TheAtlantic.com.
JAMIE LEE CURTIS, with an I-feel-your-pain expression, sits on the couch and rubs her tummy.
''Eighty-seven percent of this country suffers from digestive issues like occasional irregularity,'' Ms. Curtis says. ''Now the good news: I just discovered a yogurt called Activia that can help.''
This TV commercial -- which was later mercilessly spoofed on ''Saturday Night Live'' -- featured an animated diagram in which yellow dots were superimposed over a woman's abdomen. At first, they all clumped together; then, as if by magic, they transformed into a yellow-dotted downward arrow. ''Activia eaten every day is clinically proven to help regulate your digestive system in two weeks,'' the voiceover explained.
Regulators later concluded that the commercials, and similar claims on Activia packages, were deceptive. The F.T.C. said Dannon exaggerated its science about the yogurt's effect on what is delicately known as ''intestinal transit time.'' Many of the company's scientific studies actually found that Activia helped no more than a placebo, Ms. Engle says. And while probiotics in Activia may support digestion, the studies that reported an improvement involved people eating the yogurt three times a day, Ms. Engle says -- something not mentioned in the ads.
''That was a false claim,'' Ms. Engle said of the ''improved transit time.''
Dannon agreed to a settlement with the F.T.C. in December. While Dannon did not admit any wrongdoing -- standard procedure in such cases -- the F.T.C. prohibited it from marketing Activia to relieve temporary irregularity or improve ''transit time'' unless it also says to consume three servings a day.
Dannon also agreed to drop certain claims on DanActive, a dairy drink, and to pay $21 million to states to resolve related investigations by 39 state attorneys general.
Miguel Freitas, Dannon's director of health affairs, says that, taken together, the studies on Activia demonstrate that the yogurt can benefit digestive health.
Activia's main claim -- that the yogurt helps support the digestive system -- is accurate and will remain on the product labels, says Philippe Caradec, Dannon's vice president for regulatory and corporate affairs. ''We feel very confident that, after a long review, the essence of the claim we are making remains intact,'' he says.
Last month, Activia packages with the prohibited ''intestinal transit'' claim and May expiration dates were still on sale in some supermarkets, alongside updated Activia packages without the claim and the yellow arrow.
Michael Neuwirth, a Dannon spokesman, says that the company began changing Activia packaging in March and that, as of April 15, all packaging leaving factories had been revised.
Ms. Engle of the F.T.C. disagreed, saying the agency's order, finalized in January, does not allow Dannon to use up old Activia packages with ''violative claims on them.''
THE classroom teacher had just lost her place in the lesson when a child in the back row piped up.
''We were on the third paragraph of Page 57,'' the boy volunteered, ''and you were explaining that the stone structures made by ancient Romans were called aqueducts.''
Why so attentive? The voiceover in the TV ad explained: ''A clinical study showed kids who had a filling breakfast of Frosted Mini-Wheats cereal improved their attentiveness by nearly 20 percent.''
Sounds great. But regulators weren't so sure. They said the Kellogg ad, like Activia's, was deceptive. Kellogg had indeed commissioned a study that compared children who ate Frosted Mini-Wheats for breakfast with children who had only water for breakfast. But only about half the children in the Mini-Wheats camp showed any improvement in attentiveness after three hours, compared with their baseline before breakfast, according to the F.T.C., which filed its complaint in 2009.
Kellogg agreed to a settlement with the agency, which has prohibited the company from marketing breakfast or snack foods to improve cognitive health unless it has reliable scientific evidence that they do.
Celeste A. Clark, senior vice president for global public policy and external relations at Kellogg, said in an e-mail that the company stands behind the validity of the clinical study and adjusted its marketing more than two years ago to reflect the F.T.C. guidance.
But last June, the agency cited Kellogg again, this time alleging that Rice Krispies cereal had made questionable health claims about children's immunity. Regulators cited cereal boxes that featured Snap, Crackle and Pop, dressed in superhero capes, standing in front of a shield that says, ''Helping to support your family's immunity.''
In an expanded order, the F.T.C. prohibited Kellogg from making claims about any health benefit of any food -- again, unless they are backed by rigorous science and are not misleading.
Dr. Clark, the Kellogg executive, said the company voluntarily discontinued use of the claim on Rice Krispies packages more than a year ago.
To protect consumers, the F.D.A., which oversees food labels, has a variety of rules on label claims. It maintains a short list of bona fide ''health claims'' that are backed by generally accepted science and have regulatory preapproval. These include statements like ''diets low in sodium may reduce the risk of high blood pressure.''
The F.D.A. also permits more general package claims about how a nutrient can promote the normal functioning of the body, like ''calcium supports strong bones.'' The more general claims don't require agency preapproval.
Conventional foods, though, are prohibited from being marketed like drugs to prevent, mitigate or cure disease.
But regulators say they are concerned about incidents in which marketing crossed a line.
Last year, Dr. Margaret A. Hamburg, the commissioner of the F.D.A., wrote an open letter to the food industry in which she warned that ''misleading 'healthy' claims continue to appear on foods'' that are not by definition healthy.
The situation is clearer in Europe, where the European Food Safety Authority has set up an independent panel of experts to vet every health claim. Food makers submit applications with scientific evidence for a specific claim -- about whether, say, a proprietary strain of bacteria improves intestinal well-being. The panel then reviews each case and issues an opinion on whether the evidence shows that eating the food indeed causes the advertised effect.
The group is currently finishing its review of some 2,700 claims, says Albert Flynn, a professor of nutrition at University College Cork in Ireland who is chairman of the panel. Next year, the agency is expected to issue a list of approved health claims, making food shopping less confusing -- at least for consumers in Europe.
''The only claims that will be approved are those that have been shown to be backed by science,'' Professor Flynn says, ''so consumers can be confident that the claims can be believed.''
POM WONDERFUL has long championed the power of pomegranate juice.
''Cheat death,'' one of its billboard ads exhorted, as Pom's zaftig little bottle sported a noose.
''Death defying,'' said another, on which the bottle balances on a tightrope.
''Drink to prostate health,'' urged a magazine ad, which then described a small, preliminary study that found that men who had been treated for prostate cancer experienced a decline in a telltale blood protein after drinking pomegranate juice daily for two years. ''Sometimes, good medicine can taste great,'' the ad concluded.
Pom Wonderful says it has spent about $34 million to sponsor pomegranate research. Sixty-five of those studies have been published in peer-reviewed journals, says Lynda Resnick, a California entrepreneur who founded Pom with her husband, Stewart Resnick.
''Our research has indicated that it's good for circulation and reducing inflammation,'' Mrs. Resnick says. ''It has shown benefit with prostate cancer, enormous benefit with prostate cancer, and general heart health, cardiovascular health, erectile dysfunction.''
But last year, the F.D.A. accused the company of violating of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act by marketing its juices and supplements as treatments for disease.
The F.T.C., meanwhile, said the company employed misleading marketing, contending that Pom had exaggerated or overstated research results in advertising, on the Web and in press communications. The prostate cancer study cited in the ad, for example, concluded that further research was needed to determine whether the improved blood scores would result in a concrete medical benefit, according to the agency's complaint.
Pom denies that it is misleading anyone. The First Amendment protects commercial speech that is truthful and not misleading, Mrs. Resnick says. Companies have a constitutional right to publicly discuss their research results. A second study, she says, also suggested that the juice holds promise for people with prostate cancer.
''We believe the manner in which we have communicated the results of our science research is truthful and appropriate,'' Mrs. Resnick says.
Besides, she says, Pom should not be considered a functional food. ''It's a natural food,'' she said.
Pom Wonderful has filed a federal law suit contending that the F.T.C. is overstepping its authority and setting new standards for advertising of foods and dietary supplements.
The agency has filed its own claims, which an administrative law judge in Washington is scheduled to hear on May 24.
SO what's a shopper to do?
''This is very confusing to consumers. It's confusing to a lot of health professionals,'' says Wahida Karmally, the director of nutrition at the Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research at Columbia University Medical Center. ''Just because they call it functional, it doesn't mean it's going to be good for you.''
Regulators agree.
Jennifer Thomas, director of the division of enforcement at the F.D.A.'s Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, recommends that consumers take a close look at nutrition panels and ingredient lists, and not just read marketing claims. People may also want to peruse the F.D.A.'s Web site.
''Unfortunately, there are cases where claims are overstated,'' Ms. Thomas says. ''To the extent that they come to our attention and we can take action, then we do.''
Then again, many people just want to believe. Buying foods marketed as healthy may satisfy our yearning to feel we are doing something healthy for ourselves and our families. At least, that's why many people thirst after Pom Wonderful, Mrs. Resnick writes in her book on branding, ''Rubies in the Orchard.''
As she put it: ''Lots of people drink Pom because it makes them feel healthier -- data or no data.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU1)
Shoppers must be able to trust brands ''to have good science backing up their claims,'' says Mary K. Engle of the F.T.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Lynda Resnick of Pom Wonderful says it reports its health research in a ''truthful and appropriate'' way. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY ARMSTRONG)
In a class-action settlement, Wrigley agreed to remove claims about germ killing from its Eclipse mints. The company says it stands by the research.
 In a settlement with the F.T.C., Dannon agreed to remove the ''intestinal transit'' claim from Activia yogurt. It also removed the yellow arrow (top left). (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD INDUSTRY (91%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); FUNCTIONAL FOODS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); NUTRITION (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (78%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); MILK (77%); PACKAGED GOODS (76%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); BACTERIA (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (68%); NEW PRODUCTS (67%); MARKET RESEARCH (65%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (63%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (63%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: KELLOGG CO (74%); GENERAL MILLS INC (55%)

TICKER: K (NYSE) (74%); GIS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (74%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (74%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (74%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (55%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (55%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



480 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: Buried In the Ivory Tower

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Caleb Crain's review of ''In the Basement of the Ivory Tower,'' by ''Professor X'' (May 1), leaves readers with the impression that the controversy over whether college is the right path for everyone is new. John Keats, in ''The Sheepskin Psychosis'' (1963), argued that the public has been wildly oversold on the importance of a college degree. It's merely the most convenient place to learn how to learn, rather than an absolute determinant. What Professor X describes -- unprepared or unmotivated students, high failure rates -- are the predictable consequences of a misguided policy. 
WALT GARDNER Los Angeles The writer, a former teacher, writes the Reality Check blog for Education Week.
To the Editor:
Professor X, whom Caleb Crain identifies as an ''adjunct instructor of English,'' likens his standard for an A paper to ''an essay by David Foster Wallace.'' By that standard, it seems rather unlikely that Professor X himself could write an A paper for his own class. And it calls into question the rationality of his giving nine F's in a class of 15 students. America's students are no better served by grade deflation than by grade inflation. Of course college is not for everyone, as Professor X points out. But nor is it for adjunct instructors who cannot inspire their students to pass simple college English.
LOUIS MELDMAN Bloomfield Hills, Mich.
To the Editor:
Professor X's ''In the Basement of the Ivory Tower: Confessions of an Accidental Academic'' could have been subtitled ''Confessions of an Isolated, Mistreated Adjunct Faculty Member.'' My advice to him (and other part-time faculty members): create a community -- rather than going it alone, organize, unionize!
At George Washington University in 2008, we did just that. The university has some 1,150 adjuncts, and they were shabbily treated: no job security, no benefits. Now, all are members of S.E.I.U. Local 500, with job security, benefits and higher pay.
So go for it, Professor X -- and then maybe you can feel safe using your real name in your writings.
CHESTER HARTMAN Washington The writer is director of research at the Poverty and Race Research Action Council, and an adjunct professor of sociology at George Washington University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); WRITERS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (79%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); GRADE INFLATION (77%); SOCIOLOGY (68%); DEFLATION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); LABOR UNIONS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



481 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths TYRAN, BENJAMIN

 BODY:
TYRAN--Benjamin, who was an oil executive in charge of international operations with the Natomas Company and served under its Chairman, Ralph K. Davies, during the 60's and 70's, died in his sleep on April 30 in Medford, Oregon at the age of 90. He is survived by his children, Garry (and wife Barbara) of Chevy Chase, Maryland; Cindy (and husband Randy) of Phoenix, Oregon; and Craig (and wife Kristi) of Bellingham, WA; his grandchildren Keith, Charlotte, Serena, Andrew and Chesney; and his spouse Lynn. He was preceded in death by his beloved wife of 47 years, Jeanne Deckman Tyran, who passed away in July 1994. Mr. Tyran was born in Little Falls, NY. For many years he was a resident of Hillsborough, CA, before moving to Southern Oregon. He attended Rider University, Lawrenceville, NJ receiving a BS degree in Education in 1944. Following a brief teaching assignment, he was recruited by the Arabia American Oil Company (Aramco) to work in the oil fields of Eastern Saudi Arabia, where he was stationed for two and a half years. 
In 1947, he was transferred to Aramco's offices in New York City, simultaneously receiving his MBA in 1950 from New York University. Subsequently, he worked for the US Department of State and with the Labor-Management Maritime committee in Washington, D.C. In 1960, Mr. Tyran founded and served as President of the Independent Petroleum Supply Company (IPS) with offices in New York City, San Francisco, Tokyo, London, Toronto, Paris and Rome. In 1963, IPS merged with the Natomas Company of San Francisco, with Mr. Tyran becoming Director and Vice President in charge of Natomas's newly-started international oil activities. During the late 1960s and early 1970s Natomas became one of the largest independent oil companies operating in Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, Europe and North America. Mr. Tyran retired from Natomas in 1973 and started Tyran Associates in 1974 specializing in petroleum consulting services, particularly in the Middle East. Following his move to Ashland in 1975, Mr. Tyran became involved in numerous civic, university and charitable activities, including: President of the Southern Oregon University Foundation; Chairman, Ashland Economic Development commission; and President of the Council for Economic Development of Oregon. Mr. Tyran completed an autobiography in October 2002 entitled, Bonsey's World: A Personal Chronicle, published by Minuteman Press. A private memorial service will be held later this summer. The family prefers gifts be made to the Tyran Chair at Southern Oregon University, Ashland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); EXECUTIVES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); CHARITIES (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); FOUNDATIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: RIDER UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%) OREGON, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); CANADA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPE (71%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



482 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1821 words

HEADLINE: Toward a Pacific Community

BYLINE: By MAX FRANKEL. 
Max Frankel, a former executive editor of The Times, covered the Nixon-Kissinger journey to China in 1972.

 BODY:
ON CHINA
By Henry Kissinger
Illustrated. 586 pp. The Penguin Press. $36.
Henry Kissinger was not only the first official American emissary to Communist China, he persisted in his brokerage with more than 50 trips over four decades, spanning the careers of seven leaders on each side. Diplomatically speaking, he owns the franchise; and with ''On China,'' as he approaches 88, he reflects on his remarkable run.
To the degree that Washington and Beijing now understand each other, it is in good measure because Kissinger has been assiduously translating for both sides, discerning meaning in everything from elliptical jokes to temper tantrums. At every juncture, he has been striving to find ''strategic concepts'' that could be made to prevail over a history of conflict, mutual grievance and fear. As President Nixon's national security adviser, then secretary of state for Nixon and Gerald Ford, and since 1977 as a private interlocutor extraordinaire, Kissinger has been unwaveringly committed to surmounting what he considers the legitimate Chinese resentment of American interference in their internal affairs and Americans' distaste for China's brutal suppression of ethnic, religious and political dissent. 
The surprise buried in his lumbering review of Sino-American relations is that the much ballyhooed Nixon-Kissinger journeys to China in 1971-72 turned out to have been the easy part. ''That China and the United States would find a way to come together was inevitable given the necessities of the time,'' he writes. ''It would have happened sooner or later whatever the leadership in either country.'' Both nations were exhausted from war (Vietnam, clashes on the Soviet border) and domestic strife (antiwar protests in Nixon's case, the Cultural Revolution in Mao's). Both were determined to resist Soviet advances and so could quickly agree to make common cause. The menace of Moscow took the leaders' minds off confrontations in Vietnam and Taiwan and quelled their ritual denunciations, whether of international imperialism or Communism. They decided that the adversary of my adversary was my pal, and for more than a decade that was fruitfully that.
But that was a different time. China finally escaped from Mao Zedong's mad doctrine of perpetual revolution and from the enfeebling nostrums of central planning; it became an industrial powerhouse. The Soviet Union and its empire collapsed. And the United States, feeling supreme, began promoting democracy with missionary zeal even as it grew dangerously addicted to foreign oil, goods and credit. The radical shift in the balance of power turned China and the United States into mutually dependent economic giants, but it left them without an overarching strategic design of partnership.
It is to demonstrate the need for such a design that Kissinger reviews the ups and downs of Sino-American relations, reaching even into ancient Chinese history to define national characteristics. (He finds it apt that the Chinese like to play ''wei qi,'' or ''go,'' a protracted game of encirclement while we play chess, looking for control of the center and total victory.) Kissinger draws heavily on much recent scholarship and on notes of his trips to Beijing to celebrate the pragmatism of Mao's successors. He says they are content to remain within their restored historic frontiers, willing to await a peaceful reunion with Taiwan, and most determined to continue their remarkable economic growth and to eradicate China's still widespread poverty. He is less confident about America's capacity to sustain a steady foreign policy, noting that ''the perpetual psychodrama of democratic transitions'' is a constant invitation to other nations to ''hedge their bets'' on us.
As students of Kissinger well know, he has long considered democracy to be a burden on statecraft -- both the clamor of democracy within the United States and our agitations for democracy in other lands.
He recalls yet again his agonies in office in the 1970s, when he thought that American demonstrations during the Vietnam War could have misled Mao into believing that a ''genuine world revolution'' was at hand. He argues that the ''destruction'' of Nixon in the Watergate crisis, the withdrawal of Congressional support for Vietnam, new curbs on presidential war powers and the ''hemorrhaging'' of intelligence secrets all combined to undermine the quasi alliance with China, making America appear ineffectual against the Soviets. He is glad that Jimmy Carter did not let his human rights concerns upset relations with China and that Ronald Reagan's cheerful personality overcame the ''almost incomprehensible contradictions'' of his dealings with Beijing even as he promoted the idea of an independent Taiwan.
The severest test of the quasi alliance, of course, was the brutal suppression of democratic strivings in Tiananmen Square in 1989. That violent crackdown also tested Kissinger's tolerance for the assertion of American values in foreign relations.
Looking back, he believes everything depends on circumstances: ''There are instances of violations of human rights so egregious,'' he writes, ''that it is impossible to conceive of benefit in a continuing relationship; for example, the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia, and the genocide in Rwanda. Since public pressure shades either into regime change or a kind of abdication, it is difficult to apply to countries with which a continuous relationship is important for American security. This is especially the case with China, so imbued with the memory of humiliating intervention by Western societies.''
And so Kissinger admires the way President George H. W. Bush, ''with skill and elegance,'' walked the ''tightrope'' of punishing China with sanctions after Tiananmen while simultaneously apologizing with private letters and special emissaries. President Bill Clinton tried applying pressure for a time, Kissinger notes, but was shown no gratitude when he wisely relented; the Chinese ''did not view the removal of a unilateral threat as a concession, and they were extraordinarily touchy regarding any hint of intervention in their domestic affairs.'' And President George W. Bush, despite his ''freedom agenda,'' earns Kissinger's praise for overcoming ''the historic ambivalence between America's missionary and pragmatic approaches,'' by means of ''a sensible balance of strategic priorities.''
If America's preference for democratic governance is made the main condition for progress on other issues with China, Kissinger concludes, ''deadlock is inevitable.'' Those who battle to spread American values deserve respect. ''But foreign policy must define means as well as objectives, and if the means employed grow beyond the tolerance of the international framework or of a relationship considered essential for national security, a choice must be made.'' That choice ''cannot be fudged,'' he insists, even as he attempts to protect his flanks with a fudge of his own: ''The best outcome in the American debate would be to combine the two approaches: for the idealists to recognize that principles need to be implemented over time and hence must be occasionally adjusted to circumstance; and for the 'realists' to accept that values have their own reality and must be built into operational policies.''
Still, in the end, Kissinger votes for national security uber alles. Scattered through his history are tributes to American values and commitments to human dignity, which may indeed sometimes drive our policies beyond calculations of the national interest. Exactly that happened, in fact, after ''On China'' went to press, when President Obama ventured into Libya. Kissinger was perhaps surprised when that humanitarian intervention and bid for regime change failed to evoke a Chinese veto at the United Nations. But in Asia now more than Europe, he argues, ''sovereignty is considered paramount,'' and any attempt ''from the outside'' to alter China's domestic structure ''is likely to involve vast unintended consequences.'' Besides, as he used to insist while practicing realpolitik in Washington, the cause of peace is also a moral pursuit.
This central theme of Kissinger's experience and counsel must be distilled from the sometimes /meandering and largely familiar history he tells in ''On China.'' Only in its last pages does he discuss the essential question of future Sino-American relations: With no common enemy to bind them, what will keep the peace and promote collaboration and trust between the world's major /powers?
Kissinger addresses this question by looking to the past, a memorandum written by a senior official of the British Foreign Office, Eyre Crowe, in 1907. Crowe argued that it was in Germany's interest to ''build as powerful a navy as she can afford'' and that this would itself lead to ''objective'' conflict with the British Empire, no matter what German diplomats said or did. There is today a ''Crowe school of thought'' in the United States, Kissinger observes, which sees China's rise ''as incompatible with America's position in the Pacific'' and therefore best met with pre-emptively hostile policies. He perceives growing anxieties in both societies and fears they are exacerbated by Americans who claim that democracy in China is a prerequisite for a trusting relationship. He warns that the implied next cold war would arrest progress in both nations and cause them to ''analyze themselves into self-fulfilling prophecies'' when in reality their main competition is more likely to be economic than military.
Indulging his habitual preference for diplomatic architecture, Kissinger insists that the common interests the two powers share should make possible a ''co-evolution'' to ''a more comprehensive /framework.'' He envisions wise leaders creating a ''Pacific community'' comparable to the Atlantic community that America has achieved with Europe. All Asian nations would then participate in a system perceived as a joint endeavor rather than a contest of rival Chinese and American blocs. And leaders on both Pacific coasts would be obliged to ''establish a tradition of consultation and mutual respect,'' making a shared world order ''an expression of parallel national aspirations.''
That was indeed the mission of the very first Kissinger journey to Beijing. And while he does not quite say so, he invests his hopes in a concert of nations represented, of course, by multiple Kissingers.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 29, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on May 15 with a review of Henry Kissinger's ''On China'' misidentified an American official shown at a meeting with Kissinger, President Richard M. Nixon and Prime Minister Zhou Enlai during Nixon's trip to China in 1972. He was John H. Holdridge, a senior staff member of the National Security Council, not Secretary of State William P. Rogers, who also went on the trip.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The easy part: Kissinger, Nixon, Secretary of State William P. Rogers and Prime Minister Zhou Enlai in 1972. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN DOMINIS/TIME &AMP
 LIFE PICTURES -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); RELIGION (66%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); VIET NAM (92%); TAIWAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



483 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: A Mayor Moves On, And a Myth Moves In

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
James Warren writes a column for the Chicago News Cooperative.
Opening the 57th branch library of his tenure last week, Mayor Richard M. Daley turned to me and, like a 69-year-old kid at Baskin-Robbins, exclaimed, ''Isn't this great?''
''Look at this! Look at all the light,'' he said, admiring the building in the Far Northwest Side's Dunning neighborhood. ''That's the one thing we never had growing up. All this light.'' 
Will Rahm Emanuel exhibit such delight over something so small yet so lasting? And, if not, should we care?
On the eve of Mr. Emanuel's inaugural, it is folly to predict his fate. That's especially so given a national economy that a big-city mayor is impotent to fix and, just as relevant, given how environments shape personalities and personalities shape environments.
He has been high profile as a solid North Side congressman, a cannily pragmatic head of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee and a hyperkinetic White House chief of staff. But Mr. Emanuel's image is largely that of a spectral presence -- somebody off in the closed room, in the back, who shaped events for others.
Mere mention of his name could alter the dynamic of a situation. People dealing with him get anxious without knowing what he's really up to. He's not a poet, philosopher or rabbi. He's an astute student of government and a practitioner of power.
Mr. Daley entered the job in 1989 trying to remake a myth, namely that of his iron-fisted father, an American icon who erected a concrete-and-steel metropolis and resisted a changing world. Mr. Emanuel arrives as a myth, the oft-caricatured ''Rahmbo,'' the apparatchik with a razor-sharp intellect, cosmopolitan air and Somali warlord's heart.
Many underestimated Mr. Daley because of his Son-of-Boss status and combat with the English language. But he was served well by what Mr. Emanuel does not possess. As the church-going child brought up in a Bridgeport bungalow, he had an organic tie to the city's neighborhoods and their ways of life.
Mr. Emanuel has fewer instinctual links to the city. He was raised largely in the suburbs, worked in the White House at a young age and amassed great wealth. And while good friends confirm his impressive smarts, sharp and self-deprecating humor and deep-as-a-mine devotion to family, curiously few call him ''warm.'' That might be a liability if we secretly want a new civic daddy, rather than a proven problem-solver.
He will enter City Hall with some advantages over Mr. Daley. These include a more granular take on what he inherits, in part having labored mightily during a far longer transition period and having picked many big brains.
Yet Rahm the Myth can no longer lead from the misty backroom and must prove that he can build something solid and enduring. And while his campaign was brilliantly executed -- replete with media ''messaging'' honed in tactics-obsessed Washington -- he must move from strategist to implementer in a universe demanding results.
It's a tall order, no matter his resolute assertion that Chicagoans are craving change. Perhaps I've frequented different L platforms. The reality strikes me as more ambiguous; namely, that change scares us to death, especially amid a ravaging recession.
Can he succeed while lacking Mr. Daley's visceral feel for the neighborhoods, Bill Clinton's communications skills or Harold Washington's pure affability? Probably. His arguable shortcomings are outweighed by a much-needed empirical bent and air of power and steely resolve, with people perhaps desiring stability and great competence more than inspiration.
Visiting the Rod Blagojevich retrial last week, I was reminded that we're lucky not to have an engaging poseur, or a personable but undisciplined successor like Carol Moseley Braun. The problems are stark, even if some are shorted in Mr. Emanuel's long but cautiously political transition report, like rampant segregation and dispiriting economic, social, health, education and incarceration disparities between blacks and whites.
Those persistent failings are why big-city mayor is America's toughest job.
That's why I was struck by Mr. Daley's passion at the library opening. Imagine such glee after 22 years and amid an emotionally complex period exacerbated by his wife's poor health. Even a journalist can wish him well, though one need not appear in a furniture commercial to do so, as did local TV anchors.
As for Mr. Emanuel, he takes on daunting responsibilities, including ones that even his workaholic groundwork won't have prepared him for.
They'll include the awful call in the middle of the night about two cops down on the West Side. It's one of the reasons to wish him well, too.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); CITIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); SUBURBS (71%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); SOMALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



484 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: Running on Moderation in Immoderate Times

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
BRAZIL, Ind. -- Senator Richard G. Lugar had already been introduced to the Clay County Republican Club as ''a leader in reducing the threat of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons,'' a man of ''Hoosier common sense'' and ''a true statesman for our time.''
Mr. Lugar himself had reminded the room about the Rolodex of international leaders he had accumulated in 34 years in the United States Senate (a hint of his clout), about his 604-acre family farm in Marion County (his local roots) and about his ability to speak, without notes, of the intricacies of the federal budget (lest anyone think that at age 79, he no longer had the legislative chops for the seventh term he was seeking).
Still, facing his first primary challenge since 1976, here was another constituent with a question reminding him how difficult it was to be a Republican like Richard Lugar right now. 
''About a third of our federal debt is borrowed,'' Judy Proctor, 64, began. ''That is insane.
''China doesn't want to lend us money, Canada doesn't want to lend, we're obviously irresponsible,'' she continued, her voice rising and almost breaking. ''Then we have Senator Lugar saying: 'Well, maybe we can make it a little better next year. Maybe after that we can make it a little more better.' It's not enough. We have to stop. A third of our budget is borrowed! If we don't do something dramatic, and soon, we're done.''
Loud applause.
Mr. Lugar is trying to run on moderation in an immoderate time. He is betting that the Tea Party call of alarm and partisanship is drowning out a majority that prefers Republicans who specialize in reason and reaching across the aisle.
Whether he is right will reveal something about the strength of the Tea Party. The fact that he is even struggling says a lot about the identity crisis in the Republican Party.
''I take very seriously the point you are making,'' Mr. Lugar began, his voice even as ever. At the same time, he continued, the government cannot simply tear up its credit cards. Even under the most optimistic scenarios, it would take five to seven years to get the budget deficit to zero.
''I understand the anguish that was just expressed,'' he said finally, ''that there are many citizens of our country who are angry and anguished, who really don't know how to move on this particular situation and wish that somebody would cure it much more rapidly than I am suggesting. So I hear that. But nonetheless, we will try to move along the path I suggested, with your great help and counsel, and I think we can make it.''
Running in 2006, Mr. Lugar was considered so unbeatable that Democrats did not challenge him. But with national and local Tea Party groups naming him a top target, he began his campaign for 2012 a month before the 2010 elections, sending two senior staff members from Washington to Indiana to manage his re-election efforts.
With the primary still a year away, he is already attending twice as many events statewide as he did in his last competitive race. He is holding fund-raising events across the country and has already raised more money than he has ever spent in previous races.
His primary opponent, Richard Mourdock, the state treasurer, has won some local straw polls and the support of Tea Party groups. Mr. Mourdock's slogan is ''It's time'' -- a swipe, Lugar aides complain, at their boss's age.
Mr. Lugar does sometimes seem like a Republican from a different era. He is a centrist on foreign policy. He eschews labels -- campaign aides dole out stickers calling him an ''effective conservative,'' but Mr. Lugar rarely if ever describes himself that way. He does not refer to liberals or socialism the way so many in his party do.
''People are representing what they believe is the anger of their constituents, who want angry people, who want angry statements, who want outrageous statements,'' Mr. Lugar said in an interview. ''I understand, and I understand the predicament of everybody involved in this, but I also understand, after 35 years of service, that at least a few people need to make sure that the country continues onward and upward.''
A Rhodes scholar and a former Navy officer, Mr. Lugar has spent almost all his life in public service. As mayor of Indianapolis, he was credited with saving the city's tax base, and therefore the city, by merging it with nearby suburbs. In the Senate, he is most proud of his work with Sam Nunn, Democrat of Georgia, to initiate a program of disarmament in the former Soviet Union.
Many of his positions dovetail with the Tea Party agenda; he has sponsored a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution and argues for the need to reduce military spending and restructure entitlement programs to reduce the deficit.
But Tea Party groups complain about his sponsorship of the Dream Act, which would have created a path to citizenship for some illegal immigrants who are students or military veterans. They disapprove of his votes for President Obama's Supreme Court nominees and for the bank bailout of 2008. In the criticism most puzzling to him, they disapprove of his pushing for a new strategic arms reduction treaty on nuclear disarmament.
''He leans to the other side too much,'' said Katelyn Burk, 20, who had come to hear Mr. Lugar in Brazil, wearing a Mourdock sticker on her shirt. ''You can't reach across the aisle. You've got to stick to your guns.''
She was unimpressed by his experience. ''We're in a crisis,'' she said. ''We need new people. Obviously, stability is not working.''
There are more visceral complaints, too, that Mr. Lugar is too old or out of touch, an accusation not helped by a spokesman admitting recently that while the senator maintains his family farm, he stays in hotels when he visits Indiana.
He also warns against underestimating his political skills; as mayor, he kept a list in his desk drawer of how many votes every ward chairman and precinct committee member had delivered.
On a recent campaign swing, Mr. Lugar gave the impression that there was no place he would rather be than Indiana, planting a tree with schoolchildren at the state museum and handing out awards to the Eastern Greene High School boys basketball team.
He does, however, flash impatience while talking about the current polarization. Interviewed by a television station in February, he said that Tea Party supporters criticizing his disarmament efforts needed to ''get real.''
One man stood up in Brazil to demand that Mr. Lugar reassure him that his share of the national debt would not rise.
''I can't,'' Mr. Lugar said. ''I'm simply saying I can work with members of the Republican Party in support of what they are doing and convincing enough Democrats to actually make progress in this area, as opposed to giving speeches about it or endless rhetoric or waving my hands about how horrible it all is.''
Mr. Lugar sees his predicament in almost mathematical terms -- the result of there being few incumbent Republicans running for re-election. He, too, could have decided to retire, but he says he did not consider it.
''These things are cyclical, there are some years that are happier than others,'' he said. ''I'm optimistic that as our economy improves, as our foreign policy situation improves, that we're going to have a different attitude in the Senate. We're going to have more opportunity for progress. I want to be around for that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Richard G. Lugar faces his first primary since 1976. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 Senator Richard G. Lugar, a Republican, answering questions from constituents in Brazil, Ind. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER STEVENSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); FAMILY FARMS (70%)

PERSON: DICK LUGAR (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



485 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Correction Appended 
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 27B

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Big Business Threatens and New Tax Break Is Readied

BYLINE: By DAVID GREISING. 
dgreising@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
David Greising writes a column for the Chicago News Cooperative.
The last time Sears, Roebuck & Company was looking to move its headquarters, the State of Illinois moved heaven and earth -- well, a lot of earth anyway -- to help build an 800-acre development called Prairie Stone in Hoffman Estates.
The state laid out $60 million in tax breaks so Sears would remain in the Chicago area after abandoning its namesake building downtown. Sears has been mired in mediocrity ever since, its sales and profits shrinking, and the Prairie Stone development has done worse than that. 
Prairie Stone remains mostly prairie: a few office buildings, a bankrupt shopping center and an empty-seats arena that Hoffman Estates had to seize control of in a turnaround effort. There are wide-open spaces where offices, retail and other new properties were supposed to sprout. So much for the transformative power of a big tax giveaway.
When Sears threatened last week to move its headquarters out of state, it should hardly have surprised Gov. Patrick J. Quinn, who in January dramatically raised income taxes. The tax increase made Illinois's total corporate tax burden heavier than all but 15 other states, according to the Tax Foundation, a nonprofit research organization. That prompted other states to woo local companies.
Mr. Quinn responded to the Sears threat the way politicians in such a position always do. He vowed to do all he could to persuade Sears, with its 6,000 or so headquarters jobs, to stay put.
The same governor who raised taxes $6.8 billion and has a $12 billion borrowing binge under way -- even though Illinois's bonds already are at junk status -- is promising to give tax breaks to Sears. In other words, a company with no strategic plan is likely to get a big new tax break to stay in a failed real estate development with no foreseeable economic value.
Sadly, this comes as no surprise. The governor who is sprinting to grant Sears's wish is the same one who this month gave a $100 million tax-break package to Motorola Mobility, another fumbling company, to persuade it to base its cellphone business in Libertyville.
Motorola Mobility is the smart-phone business that descended from Motorola -- a company that wrangled a $36 million credit from the state in 1994 to build a cellphone plant in Harvard, Ill., only to pull out of Harvard a decade later.
In Illinois, serial recipients can get taxpayer giveaways even for moves just a suburb away. Consider Navistar. Late last year, Mr. Quinn granted a $64.7 million break to help Navistar move its headquarters to Lisle from Warrenville, or $10 million for each of the six miles between the far western suburbs. And never mind that Navistar got taxpayer help a decade ago to move to Warrenville from Chicago.
In his two years in office, Mr. Quinn has granted tax-incentive packages to 124 companies, with much of the money going to prevent companies from skedaddling out of state. Recent big gifts to U.S. Cellular and Continental Tire are among them.
Then there's Caterpillar. Just days after Mr. Quinn got his tax increase, Douglas R. Oberhelman, the company's chief executive, wrote him a letter -- leaked to the press -- to let Mr. Quinn know that rising taxes would cost the company's employees $40 million a year, enough to afflict Caterpillar with a bad case of wanderlust.
This is the same Caterpillar that made an exaggerated and unsubstantiated claim in 2010 that the Obama heath care plan would cost it an extra $100 million. It also is the Caterpillar that is as entrenched in Peoria as Coca-Cola is rooted to Atlanta.
But never mind. Mr. Quinn answered the Cat call, met with Mr. Oberhelman a month ago, and even though a spokesman said Cat has asked for no special treatment, no one would be surprised to see a big-bucks tax break follow.
Some tax breaks can be tolerable. The $52 million spent to lure Boeing's corporate headquarters to Chicago in the 1990s probably was worth it. And it's good for Chicago that tax incentives helped persuade the brewing giant MillerCoors to make this city its home.
But the unspoken reality is this: well-run companies don't hopscotch around the world to gain tax incentives that amount to rounding errors on corporate financial statements. Moving is costly. It's disruptive to employees. It can send signals to Wall Street that corporate management is distractible.
All too often the companies that want tax breaks aren't necessarily companies worth keeping. State tax breaks should be directed at growing companies, not listless and confused former giants like Sears.
Warren Ribley, director of the Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity, says Illinois's bill for inducing headquarters to stay could be much higher. Mr. Ribley noted that the state turns down as many tax-break packages as it approves. ''We had about 12 proposals this week,'' he said.
''There is significant economic benefit through supply chains, spinoff relationships, jobs and such,'' he said. ''The reverse question is, what is the negative economic impact to the state when you lose one of these?''
At the rate Mr. Quinn is going, we may never know.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 22, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about corporate tax breaks in the Chicago area misstated the impact of an Illinois tax increase on Caterpillar Inc. Rising taxes would cost the company's employees $40 million a year; it would not cost the company $40 million a year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The headquarters of Sears is currently in the Prairie Stone development in Hoffman Estates. Gov. Patrick J. Quinn is talking to the company about tax incentives to keep Sears in Illinois. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN KONSTANTARAS/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (84%); REAL ESTATE (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); TAX INCREASES (76%); RETAILERS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); CORPORATE TAX (66%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (65%); SMARTPHONES (65%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (65%)

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (94%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%)

PERSON: PAT QUINN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011



486 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Comparisons-in-Chief

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As a candidate in 2008, Barack Obama pointedly noted that he ''doesn't look like all the presidents on the dollar bills.''
True enough. And yet, we can't seem to stop comparing him to them anyway.
At various points in the last few years, Mr. Obama has been cast as the inheritor of John F. Kennedy's Camelot, the second coming of Franklin D. Roosevelt and a modern-day Abraham Lincoln. When he has gotten into trouble, he has become another Lyndon B. Johnson, Jimmy Carter or Bill Clinton.
By the time Navy Seals took out Osama bin Laden this month, Mr. Obama's war on terrorism made him look to some like George W. Bush. Yet as he soared in the polls, others forecast a repeat of the other George Bush, who enjoyed great popularity after winning the Persian Gulf war of 1991 only to crash at the ballot box a year later amid deep economic anxiety. 
What makes us so eager to find historical parallels for Mr. Obama? Why do we take one president and try to fit him into the mold of another? Maybe it is because more than halfway through his term, we just cannot agree on who Mr. Obama really is. Or maybe it is the same public fascination with historical personalities that lately has filled best-seller lists with presidential biographies. Or maybe it is just a surplus of shallow punditry in an era with endless hours of airtime and Internet space to fill.
''Sometimes I think the only president we haven't been compared to is Franklin Pierce,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director. ''But I am not ruling out the possibility of that comparison sometime in the next couple of years.''
Mr. Pfeiffer said he assumes these comparisons come up because many political writers were history majors. Naturally, he, too, has read many books on presidents. ''The key,'' he said, ''is studying the similarities and differences and understanding that history is informative but not determinative.''
Mark K. Updegrove, director of the Johnson presidential library, points to the proliferation of news media. ''In my view,'' he said, ''pundits often make comparisons to previous presidents because it allows them to sound authoritative without putting forth a great deal of thought.'' He added that he has been among those who have made such comparisons.
Still, journalists are not the only ones promoting parallels. Mr. Clinton initially styled himself as a latter-day Kennedy, buoyed by a now-iconic photo of the two once meeting, and he followed Thomas Jefferson's route from Charlottesville, Va., to Washington to take office. Later in his presidency, he focused on Theodore Roosevelt as a president who presided over a period of peacetime transformation.
The younger Mr. Bush early on cited Ronald Reagan as his model more than his father, while his strategist, Karl Rove, compared him to William McKinley, in part because he saw both presidents on the cusp of a new era. As war raged, Mr. Bush sought inspiration at night reading one Lincoln biography after another. By the end, he hoped to repeat Harry S. Truman's example as an unpopular president later appreciated for great leadership at the opening of a long national struggle.
''In some ways, it's not new,'' said Michael Waldman, once Mr. Clinton's chief speechwriter. ''Nixon talked to the portraits, and we all thought that was weird. It turns out all presidents talk to the portraits, and the portraits talk back. Any president is judged in comparison to the others who held the job. That's partly because so few people have been presidents.''
But the eagerness to categorize seems to have hit new extremes with Mr. Obama, who has been compared to a dozen predecessors. With his youth and attractive family, he campaigned as a new Kennedy, then inherited the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression and found himself on the cover of Time digitally edited into a picture of Franklin Roosevelt, complete with cigarette holder. The New Yorker put a powdered wig on him as a new George Washington. And Mr. Obama himself emulated Lincoln by retracing his inaugural route to the capital, then encouraged the analogy by appointing his own ''team of rivals.''
As his presidency turned rougher, so did the comparisons. In full disclosure, I wrote one of the first articles making the Johnson analogy as Afghanistan decisions loomed. My wife, Susan Glasser, editor in chief of Foreign Policy, published one of the first magazine covers comparing him to Mr. Carter. (Intriguingly, it was not Mr. Obama who objected, but Mr. Carter.)
The conservative National Review later picked up the Carter theme with a cover showing the 39th president in the Obama-style ''Hope'' poster. On the other side, the liberal Village Voice ran a cover piece headlined ''George W. Obama'' along with a picture of the current president partly torn to reveal his predecessor underneath.
After last year's Republican midterm victories, the Clinton comparisons surged, and Mr. Obama himself said he was reading the historian Taylor Branch's book on Mr. Clinton, ''The Clinton Tapes.'' (Mr. Branch last week deemed the analogies the product of a passive electorate and cynical era in which ''politics is reduced to a dangerously complacent form of entertainment.'')
As political tides shifted again, the analogies turned to Reagan, who ''posed'' next to Mr. Obama on another Time cover, making the argument that the 44th president could be for Democrats what the 40th president was for Republicans -- a comparison stoked by Mr. Obama, who has praised Reagan as a ''transformative'' president.
Ronald Brownstein, the editorial director of the National Journal Group, who recently wrote that Mr. Obama was actually most like Dwight D. Eisenhower for his ''hidden hand'' leadership style, said such analogies are natural because there are so few archetypes for presidents to follow.
''At its worst, that effort becomes like the parody of Hollywood pitch meetings -- you know, this is like 'Miami Vice' meets 'The Smurfs,' or something. It's Lincoln meets Reagan with a smidge of Harding,'' he said. ''But over all, I don't think it's illegitimate to try to understand the patterns of leadership each president applies, and to try to do some archaeology on its roots.''
Others said that times change, rendering past-is-prologue analysis problematic. ''The comparisons are useful for those who believe history repeats itself,'' said Nicolle Wallace, a top adviser to George W. Bush. ''But my sense is that Bush 43 and Obama are the first modern presidents for whom the historical comparisons are less significant than the events that occur during their presidencies.''
And Mr. Obama stands apart not only as the first African-American president but also as the vanguard of a new generation. ''He's different in many ways,'' Alvin S. Felzenberg, who rated presidents in the book ''The Leaders We Deserved (And a Few We Didn't),'' said last week. ''He's the first in a line. We had a Civil War line. We had a World War II line. We had a couple baby boomers. And now we've got him.''
In the end, said Michael Beschloss, the presidential historian, our views matter less than Mr. Obama's: ''The real key is, in his heart, which historical figures does Obama himself really find himself looking to most often for inspiration and guidance?'' Usually, he added, we do not find out until after a president leaves office and historians can read his records or memoirs.
So maybe then, Mr. Obama will actually be another Ulysses S. Grant, who wrote the most celebrated presidential memoir of all time. Remember, you read it here first.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT DORFMAN) (WK1)
 PHOTOS (WK5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); WRITERS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DESERT STORM (75%); HISTORY (74%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); TERRORISM (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (67%); JOURNALISM (67%); BESTSELLERS (65%); NEWS BRIEFS (65%); LIBRARIES (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



487 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Correction Appended 
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Chief, Arrested at Airport, Is Accused of Sexual Attack at Hotel

BYLINE: By AL BAKER and STEVEN ERLANGER; William K. Rashbaum and Colin Moynihan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The managing director of the International Monetary Fund, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, was taken off an Air France plane at Kennedy International Airport minutes before it was to take off for Paris on Saturday and arrested in connection with the sexual attack of a maid at a Midtown Manhattan hotel, the authorities said.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn, 62, who was widely expected to become the Socialist candidate for the French presidency, was apprehended by detectives of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey in the first-class section of the jetliner, and immediately turned over to detectives from the Midtown South Precinct, officials said.
The New York Police Department arrested Mr. Strauss-Kahn at 2:15 a.m. Sunday ''on charges of criminal sexual act, attempted rape, and an unlawful imprisonment in connection with a sexual assault on a 32-year chambermaid in the luxury suite of a Midtown Manhattan hotel yesterday'' about 1 p.m., Deputy Commissioner Paul J. Browne, the department's chief spokesman, said. 
A spokeswoman for the Manhattan district attorney's office said prosecutors were investigating the matter and expected to bring formal criminal charges against Mr. Strauss-Kahn by early Sunday morning.
Reached by telephone, Benjamin Brafman, a lawyer, said he would be representing Mr. Strauss-Kahn with William Taylor, a lawyer in Washington.
''We have not yet been able to meet with our client and we may have more to say tomorrow,'' said Mr. Brafman, who said he had been contacted late Saturday night. He said Mr. Strauss-Kahn was being housed at the police department's Special Victims Unit.
Early Sunday morning, Reuters reported that Mr. Brafman said in an e-mail that his client ''will plead not guilty.''
Mr. Strauss-Kahn, a former French finance minister, had been expected to declare his candidacy soon, after three and a half years as the leader of the fund, which is based in Washington. He was considered by many to have done a good job in a period of intense global economic strain, when the bank itself had become vital to the smooth running of the world and the European economy.
His apprehension came at about 4:40 p.m., when two detectives of the Port Authority suddenly boarded Air France Flight 23, as the plane idled at the departure gate, said John P. L. Kelly, a spokesman for the agency.
''It was 10 minutes before its scheduled departure,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''They were just about to close the doors.''
Mr. Kelly said that Mr. Strauss-Kahn was traveling alone and that he was not handcuffed during the apprehension.
''He complied with the detectives' directions,'' Mr. Kelly said.
The Port Authority officers were acting on information from the Police Department, whose detectives had been investigating the assault of a female employee of Sofitel New York, at 45 West 44th Street, near Times Square. Working quickly, the city detectives learned he had boarded a flight at Kennedy Airport to leave the country.
Though Mr. Strauss-Kahn received generally high marks for his stewardship of the bank, his reputation was tarnished in 2008 by an affair with a Hungarian economist who was a subordinate there. The fund decided to stand by him despite concluding that he had shown poor judgment in the affair. Mr. Strauss-Kahn issued an apology to employees at the bank and his wife, Anne Sinclair, an American-born French journalist.
In his statement then, Mr. Strauss-Kahn said, ''I am grateful that the board has confirmed that there was no abuse of authority on my part, but I accept that this incident represents a serious error of judgment.'' The economist, Piroska Nagy, left the fund as part of a buyout of nearly 600 employees instituted by Mr. Strauss-Kahn to cut costs.
In the New York case, Mr. Browne said that it was about 1 p.m. on Saturday when the maid, a 32-year-old woman, entered Mr. Strauss-Kahn's suite -- Room 2806 -- believing it was unoccupied. Mr. Browne said that the suite, which cost $3,000 a night, had a foyer, a conference room, a living room and a bedroom, and that Mr. Strauss-Khan had checked in on Friday.
As she was in the foyer, ''he came out of the bathroom, fully naked, and attempted to sexually assault her,'' Mr. Browne said, adding, ''He grabs her, according to her account, and pulls her into the bedroom and onto the bed.'' He locked the door to the suite, Mr. Browne said.
''She fights him off, and he then drags her down the hallway to the bathroom, where he sexually assaults her a second time,'' Mr. Browne added.
At some point during the assault, the woman broke free, Mr. Browne said, and ''she fled, reported it to other hotel personnel, who called 911.'' He added, ''When the police arrived, he was not there.'' Mr. Browne said Mr. Strauss-Kahn appeared to have left in a hurry. In the room, investigators found his cellphone, which he had left behind, and one law enforcement official said that the investigation uncovered forensic evidence that would contain DNA.
Mr. Browne added, ''We learned that he was on an Air France plane,'' and the plane was held at the gate, where Mr. Strauss-Kahn was taken into custody. Later Saturday night, Mr. Browne said Mr. Strauss-Kahn was in a police holding cell.
Mr. Browne said the city's Emergency Medical Service took the maid to Roosevelt Hospital for what Mr. Browne described as treatment for ''minor injuries.''
No matter the outcome of Saturday's episode, it will most likely throw the French political world into turmoil and the Socialist Party into an embarrassed confusion.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn, a leading member of the party, has been considered the front-runner for the next presidential election in France in May 2012. Opinion polls have shown him to be the Socialists' most popular candidate and running well ahead of the incumbent, Nicolas Sarkozy, who leads the center-right party.
France has been waiting for Mr. Strauss-Kahn to decide whether to run for his party's nomination in a series of primaries, which would mean giving up his post at the fund.
The view in France was that if Mr. Strauss-Kahn wanted to run, he would have to make his intentions clear early this summer, and most politicians and analysts have been predicting that he would not be able to resist the chance to run the country.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn contested for the nomination five years ago, losing to Segolene Royal, who ultimately lost a second-round runoff to Mr. Sarkozy. Mr. Sarkozy then arranged for Mr. Strauss-Kahn to get the I.M.F. job, partly to remove a popular rival from France's political landscape.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn was the French minister of economy under the Socialist prime minister Lionel Jospin, from 1997 to 1999, and he has also been a professor of economics at the Paris Institute of Political Studies.
In 1995, he was elected mayor of Sarcelles, a poor suburb of Paris, and married Ms. Sinclair.
The couple are known to enjoy the finer things in life, and Mr. Strauss-Kahn has sometimes been attacked for being a ''caviar leftist.''
Recently Mr. Strauss-Kahn and his wife were photographed entering an expensive Porsche in Paris belonging to one of their friends. The image of a Socialist with Porsche tastes was quickly picked up by the news media, especially the newspapers that generally support Mr. Sarkozy.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 17, 2011

 CORRECTION:
An article in some editions on Sunday about the apprehension of the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, in connection with a sexual attack of a maid at a Midtown Manhattan hotel misstated the year of his marriage to Anne Sinclair, an American-born French journalist. It was 1991, not 1995.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the managing director of the I.M.F. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEX OFFENSES (92%); AIRPORTS (91%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (91%); ARRESTS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); AIRLINES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); CRIMINAL FALSE IMPRISONMENT (77%); LAWYERS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

TICKER: AF (PAR) (58%); AF (AMS) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



488 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: In Prison Reform, Money Trumps Civil Rights

BYLINE: By MICHELLE ALEXANDER. 
Michelle Alexander, an associate professor of law at Ohio State University, is the author of ''The New Jim Crow: Mass Incarceration in the Age of Colorblindness.''

 BODY:
Columbus, Ohio
THE legal scholar Derrick A. Bell foresaw that mass incarceration, like earlier systems of racial control, would continue to exist as long as it served the perceived interests of white elites.
Thirty years of civil rights litigation and advocacy have failed to slow the pace of a racially biased drug war or to prevent the emergence of a penal system of astonishing size. Yet a few short years of tight state budgets have inspired former ''get tough'' true believers to suddenly denounce the costs of imprisonment. ''We're wasting tax dollars on prisons,'' they say. ''It's time to shift course.''
Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, shocked many earlier this year when he co-wrote an essay for The Washington Post calling on ''conservative legislators to lead the way in addressing an issue often considered off-limits to reform: prisons.'' 
Republican governors had already been sounding the same note. As California was careering toward bankruptcy last year, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger lamented that more money was being spent on prisons than on education. Priorities ''have become out of whack over the years,'' he said. ''What does it say about any state that focuses more on prison uniforms than on caps and gowns?'' Another Republican governor, John R. Kasich of Ohio, recently announced support for reducing penalties for nonviolent drug offenders as part of an effort to slash the size of the state's prison population.
A majority of those swept into our nation's prison system are poor people of color, but the sudden shift away from the ''get tough'' rhetoric that has dominated the national discourse on crime has not been inspired by a surge in concern about the devastating human toll of mass incarceration. Instead, as Professor Bell predicted, the changing tide is best explained by perceived white interests. In this economic climate, it is impossible to maintain the vast prison state without raising taxes on the (white) middle class.
Given this political reality, it is hardly a surprise to read a headline that says, ''N.A.A.C.P. Joins With Gingrich in Urging Prison Reform,'' rather than the other way around. If there were ever an illustration of Professor Bell's theory that whites will support racial justice only to the extent that it is in their interests, this would seem to be it.
Of course, in the late 1970s, when Professor Bell, who now teaches at New York University School of Law, first advanced his theories, our prison population was much smaller. The Reagan revolution had not yet taken hold. No one knew that the war on drugs and the ''get tough'' movement would unleash a wave of punitiveness that would trap generations in ghettoes, and brand them criminals and felons. No one foresaw the caste-like system that would emerge, the millions who would be stripped of basic civil and human rights supposedly won in the civil rights movement -- the right to vote, to serve on juries, and to be free of discrimination in employment, housing, education and public benefits.
Today, 2.3 million Americans are behind bars; the United States has the world's highest rate of incarceration. Convictions for non-violent crimes and relatively minor drug offenses -- mostly possession, not sale -- have accounted for the bulk of the increase in the prison population since the mid-1980s.
African-Americans are far more likely to get prison sentences for drug offenses than white offenders, even though studies have consistently shown that they are no more likely to use or sell illegal drugs than whites.
What to do now? Understandably, civil rights advocates and criminal justice reformers are celebrating this moment of what Professor Bell calls ''interest convergence.'' They say we must catch the wave and ride it. Many have given up all hope of persuading the white electorate that they should care about the severe racial disparities in the criminal justice system or the racial politics that birthed the drug war. It's possible now, they say, to win big without talking about race or ''making it an issue.'' Public relations consultants like the FrameWorks Institute -- which dedicates itself to ''changing the public conversation about social problems'' -- advise advocates to speak in a ''practical tone'' and avoid discussions of ''fairness between groups and the historical legacy of racism.''
Surely the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. would have rejected that advice.
In 1963, in his ''Letter From a Birmingham Jail,'' he chastised white ministers for their indifference to black suffering: ''I have almost reached the regrettable conclusion that the Negro's great stumbling block in his stride toward freedom is not the White Citizens Counciler or the Ku Klux Klanner, but the white moderate who is more devoted to 'order' than to justice; who prefers a negative peace which is the absence of tension to a positive peace which is the presence of justice; who constantly says, 'I agree with you in the goal you seek, but I can't agree with your methods of direct action'; who paternalistically believes he can set the timetable for another man's freedom; who lives by a mythical concept of time and who constantly advises the Negro to wait for a 'more convenient season.' ''
He continued: ''We will have to repent in this generation not merely for the hateful words and actions of the bad people but for the appalling silence of the good people.'' Such language would not have tested well in a focus group. Yet it helped to change the course of history.
Those who believe that righteous indignation and protest politics were appropriate in the struggle to end Jim Crow, but that something less will do as we seek to dismantle mass incarceration, fail to appreciate the magnitude of the challenge. If our nation were to return to the rates of incarceration we had in the 1970s, we would have to release 4 out of 5 people behind bars. A million people employed by the criminal justice system could lose their jobs. Private prison companies would see their profits vanish. This system is now so deeply rooted in our social, political and economic structures that it is not going to fade away without a major shift in public consciousness.
Yes, some prison downsizing is likely to occur in the months and years to come. But we ought not fool ourselves: we will not end mass incarceration without a recommitment to the movement-building work that was begun in the 1950s and 1960s and left unfinished. A human rights nightmare is occurring on our watch. If we fail to rise to the challenge, and push past the politics of momentary interest convergence, future generations will judge us harshly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); DRUG POLICY (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); BUDGETS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); POLITICS (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); LITIGATION (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KASICH (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (55%); NEWT GINGRICH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



489 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE MONEY ISSUE; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 3507 words

HEADLINE: JIM CRAMER HITS AN ALL-TIME HIGH

BYLINE: By ZEV CHAFETS

 BODY:
Elks Lodge 1246 is located on the floor above Tony's Clip Joint in Summit, N.J., a small town about 40 minutes from Wall Street. On a chilly Monday evening in February, I climbed the musty stairwell to the clubhouse and walked in on a scene right out of Norman Rockwell -- 30 or so middle-aged men sipping bottled beer, idly watching a hockey game on TV and engaging in good-natured banter as they stood around the pool table. My host, Jim Cramer, was showered with greetings of fraternal bonhomie.
Despite their proximity to Manhattan, the Elks of Summit, N.J., seem pretty much like the Elks of Summit, Anywhere -- a brotherhood of Main Street businessmen and lawyers, independent contractors and insurance agents. Cramer, though, is the star of ''Mad Money,'' a frenetic Wall Street show on CNBC, whose audience of day traders and amateur investors tunes in as much for the host's vaudevillian antics as for his daily stock advice. He is a television personality, and something more; in the words of Mark Hoffman, the president of CNBC, ''Jim Cramer has a fistful of Harvard degrees, eight figures in the bank and an I.Q. north of 150.'' At the Elks club, or just about anywhere, he stands out. 
At the beginning of each episode of ''Mad Money,'' Cramer states his purpose: ''I'm not here to make you friends. I'm here to make you money.'' He portrays himself as an insider willing to reveal the moneymaking tricks of the trade to the little guy. During the bull market of the mid-2000s, Cramer's fans indeed made money in the market (as did most other investors) and had fun doing it.
But when the economy began to collapse three years ago, Cramer became a very visible symbol of what had gone wrong. He famously interviewed Wachovia's C.E.O. on the air, recommending the stock right before the bank's shares plummeted. For a brief moment it looked as though the traditional world of Wall Street was destined for drastic reform, and as if Cramer, and other stock-market gurus, would go down with the old regime. That, of course, didn't happen. Though the rest of the economy is still in a quagmire, the stock market has emerged exultant: Wall Street is its old self, and Cramer has positioned himself again as the people's stockbroker.
Cramer challenged me to a game of table shuffleboard, two on two. His teammate was Mike Williams, the Exalted Ruler of the lodge and also its bartender. Mine was Mike Haley, a former high-school football star with a degree in industrial arts from Trenton State College. He is Cramer's best friend and latest role model.
Table shuffleboard isn't a complicated game, but it is harder than it looks, and it is played with ferocity by the Summit Elks. I wasn't much good at it, but Haley, a superstar, kept us even. Tied at 20, Cramer slid a disk down the slick table and hung it on the lip -- point, game and match. Haley gave Cramer a sportsmanlike pat on the back. It was Haley who brought him into the Elks. Every Thanksgiving Haley holds a backyard touch-football game cum barbecue. A dozen years ago, Cramer, who has lived in Summit since 1995, turned up at his door wearing an Eagles jersey and asked if he could play. Haley had no idea who Cramer was, but he let him in. ''Hey, he seemed like a good guy,'' Haley told me, laughing.
The joke is that Cramer had a different reputation at the time on Wall Street, where he ran a hedge fund with high-rolling investors and moonlighted as a financial journalist. Cramer was notorious for profanely abusing his subordinates, stabbing friends in the back and using his media connections to enhance his many interests and mock his many rivals.
He got away with this sort of behavior because he was extremely good at making money. ''A lot of people who listened to Jim did extraordinarily well,'' says Eliot Spitzer, a close friend from their Harvard Law School days whose family invested in his fund, Cramer Berkowitz. From the day he opened it, in February 1987, until the start of 2001, when he abruptly quit the money-managing business, Cramer achieved a 24 percent return, beating the S&P 500 index by almost 10 points. ''That's a superb record,'' says Jeremy Siegel, a professor of finance at the Wharton School. ''Cramer was one of those guys with a magical touch.''
Cramer could perform, but it cost him. ''In my last year I had to make more than $425,000 a day just to maintain my record,'' he told me. ''A dozen investors called every day right after the market closed. If I had a bad day, they got mad. Sometimes they yelled at me. Once David Geffen called me on vacation in Israel and screamed at me because Intel went down.''
He took the abuse because he thought he had it coming. ''I always felt like I had to deliver, and when I didn't, I took it very personally. I kept a box full of my bad trades in the closet, and I woke up in the middle of the night thinking about them.''
In 2000, Cramer had his best year in the market -- an astonishing 38 percent return -- and his worst one as a human being. ''Everyone was afraid for me,'' he says. ''My father told me I was going to die before he did -- literally die -- at a young age, like my mother. He was right too. I was 46, my blood pressure was off the charts, I was so weak and out of shape that I was afraid to go to the doctor.'' Cramer began experiencing long bouts of anxiety, increasingly severe panic attacks and imaginary coronaries. In November he suffered a complete breakdown and went on medication to help him stay calm and fight off irrationality. To outsiders it looked as if he was walking away at the top of his game. In fact, it was a no mas moment. ''Life was total misery. I had the money. I had won. All I could do now was lose.''
Jim Cramer's fate as a moneyman was sealed at the Coffee Connection in Cambridge, Mass. In college he was the president of The Harvard Crimson and spent a few years between graduation and law school working as a reporter. As a Harvard law student, he continued to write the occasional article. He amused himself by dabbling in the stock market and putting his picks on his answering machine. One day Martin Peretz, the editor of The New Republic, called to assign a book review, and the two eventually got to talking about money. Peretz, who was married at the time to Anne Labouisse Farnsworth, an heiress to one of the great American fortunes, was a connoisseur of young Harvard talent. One day, after a few exploratory conversations, he leaned across a table at the Coffee Connection and asked the 27-year-old Cramer to manage half a million dollars.
''When I took that check, I knew I was going down a whole new path,'' Cramer says. He had been raised in modest circumstances in a suburb of Philadelphia by an artistic mother who wanted him to be a writer. When he went to work in the personal-wealth-management department of Goldman Sachs, with Peretz as his main client, she was disturbed. ''I'd come home and tell her I had a big day in the market, and she'd look at me and say: 'Are you kidding? My Jimmy? That's what you are?' '' On the day Louise Cramer died, in her mid-50s, her son spent time talking business on the phone with Peretz. His reputation was getting around. The makers of ''Wall Street'' consulted him, incorporating tidbits of his experience into the life of Bud Fox, the good-hearted young provincial corrupted by his own greed and ambition.
Cramer's whole life was the market. He married a trader, Karen Backfisch, whom Cramer calls the Trading Goddess. (They divorced in 2009.) When he closed his hedge fund, something had to fill the void. At that point, he asked Mike Haley to get him involved in the community in Summit. Haley appointed him as the head of the children's pet show of the Police Athletic League, and later brought him into the Elks. No novice was ever more convinced of the redemptive power of his new church. ''Guys like Haley and the others are good,'' he told me on the way home from the shuffleboard game. ''Good fathers, good men, good friends. To them it comes naturally. It doesn't to me. I learn from them.''
Cramer also wrote an autobiography, ''Confessions of a Street Addict.'' His newfound virtue did not compromise his shrewdness as a custodian of his own image, and his book -- like most celebrity addict tell-alls -- was a cocktail of self-inflicted woe, contrition, rueful self-knowledge, determination to do better and just a twist of hey, it was a hell of a ride. It was also a very astute look at Wall Street's hedge-fund culture, a subject he had been writing about for SmartMoney magazine for years. When he started writing for SmartMoney, the idea was that hedge funds were so mysterious that only an insider's voice would have real authority. In practice, Cramer found himself in the enviable position of reporting on the same market in which he was trading. He had to disclose his ownership in companies he mentioned, but no rule required him to say what he might buy or sell the next day. Needless to say, this gave Cramer a very sizable advantage over other money managers. He could, in certain situations, influence the market all by himself.
In his post-trading life, Cramer continued writing about the stock market for TheStreet.com, a financial Web site he founded with Peretz, and in New York magazine and various other publications. In 2005 he started ''Mad Money,'' a show whose premise is that individual investors who do their homework and follow Cramer's coaching can make money in the stock market.
The show was an immediate hit, in large part because of Cramer's showmanship. He used props and sound effects to deliver his message, and bounced around the studio wearing sombreros and churning meat grinders, delivering information in a rapid-fire, digression-rich patter of high certainty. Cramer has no apologies for his on-air high jinks. ''Business isn't inherently entertaining,'' he says. ''A show that spends all its time comparing the valuation of the Swiss franc to the yen is a show that is canceled.''
On Valentine's Day, Cramer and I went to a Nets-Spurs game at the Prudential Center in Newark. Cramer is a sports nut, and while his favorite teams are in Philadelphia, he was happy to cheer on the only basketball team in his adopted state. As we entered the arena, the sparse crowd began to stir. Fans, mostly younger guys, hollered out his name or ''booyah!'' one of his signature expressions. As we passed, some asked about specific stocks. ''Good buy under 30,'' he replied without breaking stride, or ''only if you don't have other energy stocks in your portfolio.''
As soon as we were seated, a representative of the Nets came by and invited us to move down to the floor. Nearby fans greeted him with pats on the back and more ''booyahs.'' Several asked for autographs. At halftime, WFAN interviewed him about the future of the franchise, and he accommodatingly taped a TV promo for the Nets.
Cramer picks stocks on the air, but he is not allowed to own any (the exceptions are shares of TheStreet.com, General Electric, CNBC's old parent company and Comcast, its new parent company). He runs a charitable portfolio, Action Alerts Plus, which is governed by a trust and is open to public scrutiny. He can't trade a stock he mentions on the air for at least five business days, and he must hold whatever he buys for at least 30 days. These rules make it impossible for him to engage in the hyperaggressive buying and selling of his hedge-fund days. Still, most years the Action Alerts Plus portfolio has beaten the S.&P. 500.
Cramer's flamboyance and cockiness make him an easy target. Some maintain that it is simply impossible for any human to recommend as many stocks as he does (Barron's, in 2007, put the number at 7,000 a year) and know what he is talking about. Barron's conceded that Cramer's advice was ''generally smart, his knowledge of individual stocks amazingly detailed'' but calculated that his on-air picks trailed the market. This is debatable, since Cramer doesn't give equal weight to all his recommendations and doesn't normally tell people when to sell.
But the more damning criticism of Cramer comes from Wall Street professionals who know how much expertise it takes to make money trading stocks. Amateurs, in their view, don't stand a chance, and Cramer is merely egging them on. ''Cramer induces his viewers to do things that are bad for them,'' says David Swensen, who manages Yale University's endowment. ''He's smart enough to know what he's doing. 'Mad Money' delivers a very dangerous message -- that individual investors can beat the market with momentum-driven, high-octane trading strategies. There are individuals who do beat the market, but their number is vanishingly small. Cramer is a master manipulator. He has absolutely no accountability. This is serious business; people's retirements are at stake.''
YouTube populist types like Don Harrold, who gives advice on his Web site DayTradeShow.com, have their own beefs. Harrold contends that Cramer is the right man in the wrong job. ''He was a brilliant hedge-fund trader, but hedge-fund trader doesn't necessarily make a great coach for a general audience,'' Harrold told me. ''Check out early March 2009. Cramer went negative just at the bottom of the market. That's the exact opposite of good advice.''
If Cramer's fans at the Nets game had ever considered these harsh assessments, they didn't seem to be troubled by them. After the game, as we slowly wended our way to the doors, Cramer signing autographs along the way, I bumped into a guy in his 20s who was walking hand in hand with his Valentine's date. ''You know Cramer?'' he asked me.
I nodded. ''Do you watch his show?'' I asked.
''Every day.''
''Make any money?''
The guy looked at his date and smiled. ''Sometimes yes, sometimes no,'' he said. ''Hey, I'm a player, that's how it goes.''
On ''Mad Money'' today, Cramer is back to his old form; you won't hear him rehashing March 2009 or any of those months of financial collapse. It is, in fact, a time that Cramer would happily forget. Recently I heard him try, and fail. Over breakfast at the Summit Diner, we talked about the Interview, his appearance on ''The Daily Show.'' No bad pick Cramer ever made in the market was as painful as the humiliating grilling he got from Jon Stewart.
The Interview had its origin in a rant by the CNBC commentator Rick Santelli against ''losers'' who couldn't meet their mortgage payments. Santelli's outburst resonated on the right and helped give rise to what became the Tea Party movement. It required a response and, on March 4, Stewart provided it. He skewered Santelli as an unfeeling hypocrite and CNBC for failing to warn the public about the unscrupulous financial practices that had taken the economy crashing down. To illustrate his point, Stewart screened video clips of Maria Bartiromo, Larry Kudlow and other CNBC stars making terrible judgments or conducting insipid interviews with self-interested C.E.O.'s. Cramer was shown predicting with hyperconfidence that Bank of America stock would go to $60 ''in a heartbeat,'' followed by a silent screen noting that the shares were selling for less than $4. There was also a clip of Cramer seemingly endorsing Bear Stearns, which collapsed shortly thereafter.
Cramer, like virtually every market guru, was vulnerable to this sort of ridicule. His colleagues took the hit and stayed quiet, but he chose to fight back. Stewart responded then with a mock apology to Cramer over the Bear Stearns clip that made Cramer look even worse. On the ''Today'' show, Cramer dismissed Stewart as just a comedian. The jousting lasted a week, spurred on by the publicity machine at Comedy Central. When it was announced that Cramer was going on ''The Daily Show'' to debate Stewart, the media ballyhooed the clash as if it were the reincarnation of Ali-Frazier, albeit with two quick-witted, wise-guy Jewish flyweights.
''There was a real sense of excitement in the newsroom here when Cramer left for 'The Daily Show,' '' Mark Hoffman told me. They all thought that if anybody had a chance to go toe to toe against Stewart, it would be Cramer.
They were wrong. For 15 long minutes, Cramer sat abjectly as Stewart pummeled him. Worse, he accused Cramer of being a snake-oil salesman and suggested that he and his colleagues at CNBC were responsible for cheerleading Wall Street shenanigans that wrecked the investments of millions. Cramer greeted this with an abashed grin and repeated apologies for his role in the economic mess. People expecting to hear from the confident Jim Cramer of ''Mad Money'' were stunned.
''It's unbelievable, I know, but I never saw it coming,'' he told me as we sat in a booth in the diner gorging on a breakfast of bacon and eggs. ''The night before Stewart, a bartender in Brooklyn wished me luck, and I didn't get what he was talking about. I expected a cordial discussion. They promised they wouldn't use any clips, and they lied,'' Cramer said. (''The Daily Show'' declined to comment.) ''I should have known this was coming because of how vicious Stewart had been all week, but I really thought it was just going to be a friendly show.''
This misapprehension lasted for about 10 seconds. ''As soon as he started, I realized Stewart was on a mission to make me look like a clown. I didn't defend myself because I wasn't prepared. What was I supposed to do, talk about how often I had been right? Praise myself? Get mad? I was mad, but I didn't want to give the audience any blood. The national media said I got crushed, which I did, and made me into a buffoon.'' He looked at his plate and shook his head. ''You have a whole body of work and then -- '' He signaled the waitress for more coffee. ''Stewart was the prosecutor, and I was Exhibit A. But what was the crime? What did I do wrong? I wasn't running Fannie or Freddie. I wasn't in charge at Countrywide. CNBC was completely good. Better than the Department of Justice. What I did every night was call these bad actors out. I sat there with Stewart and thought: He's never even seen my show. He doesn't even know what I do.'' He paused for a moment. ''Obviously I didn't know what he does, either.''
The Summit Diner is small, just six booths and 17 counter seats, and Cramer is famous. People were listening, and as Cramer's voice rose, they leaned in. Cramer noticed me noticing, and briefly lowered his voice, but he couldn't stay calm for long. ''Did I get Bank of America wrong? Yes, I did. O.K., guilty. I made bad calls, just like everybody. I think the Knicks are going to beat the Celtics in the playoffs, but I could be very wrong.'' (He was.) ''You don't deserve the grand-jury treatment for being wrong. Where were my Sixth Amendment rights?''
Cramer was especially incensed by what he saw as the political unfairness behind Stewart's attack. ''They wanted to make me the Face of the Era, and they succeeded. Rick Santelli's a conservative. Ideological. O.K., I get that. But me? I was very anti-Bush. I'm a Democrat, I've got the canceled checks to prove it, and suddenly I'm the enemy? Me? Me?''
People were stirring at the counter, but Cramer wasn't noticing now. ''The old me would have hit Stewart with a chair. I'm proud I didn't do that. I controlled myself. But maybe I shouldn't have. Maybe I should have taken the gloves off. When Stewart talked about how his 75-year-old mother lost money in the market, I could have said: 'Hey, your brother Larry Leibowitz is one of the heads of the New York Stock Exchange. Why didn't he give your mom advice? Maybe I should have said that.''
A middle-aged couple meekly approached the booth. The woman identified herself as an employee of T. Rowe Price and asked to get her picture taken with Cramer. He beamed for the camera as I dutifully snapped the shot. ''T. Rowe, good company,'' Cramer said as she left.
''You've got a few fans left,'' I said.
Cramer shook his head. ''After the interview, people like that, total strangers, would come up to me and say, 'Jim, I'm sorry.' That made me feel horrible, people feeling sorry for me. For six months it was on my mind all the time. I hurt so bad. But I don't really think about it now.'' His eyes focused with what seemed to be surprise at a new truth. ''Actually I don't,'' he said.
''The market's back up,'' I said.
''Yeah, maybe Jon Stewart's 75-year-old mom has been made whole,'' he said.
''And you feel better.''
Cramer thought it over. ''I feel like I was in a Kesselschlact,'' he said. ''You know?''
I didn't.
''Kesselschlact means 'caldron battle' in German. That's what the Nazis called battles of total annihilation, and that's how I felt. Like a survivor of Kesselschlact.''
The diner was emptying out by now. Cramer was eager to get home and pack -- he had a flight to Europe later that day -- so we settled the check and walked out into the sunshine. We shook hands, and I watched him walk briskly down the street, nodding to neighbors as he passed, an Elk among Elks, star of his own TV show, a guy with a fistful of Harvard degrees, an I.Q. north of 150 and eight figures in the bank.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (MM25)
 Bulls, Bears, Elks: Cramer and his pal Mike Haley work the shuffleboard at their club. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HENRY LEUTWYLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); DRINKING PLACES (76%); MEN (76%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (72%); ATHLETES (71%); INSURANCE (69%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (56%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (56%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (54%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (54%)

PERSON: JIM CRAMER (91%); MICHAEL J WILLIAMS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



490 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Rich and Sort of Rich

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
How did $250,000 become the magic number?
In the debate over how to close the budget deficit, President Obama talks often about raising taxes on ''millionaires and billionaires,'' but his policy prescription is a bit different. He says that federal income taxes should be increased on families making more than $250,000. That seems to be the threshold. Under $250,000, you're middle class; over it and you're wealthy.
Where did this number come from? Is it based on a statistical metric of wealth in America -- a true dividing line?
Empirically, these households are surely not middle income. Only 2 percent of households in the nation make more than $250,000, according to the Internal Revenue Service. But some economists and tax reform advocates are questioning whether those households are rich enough to be worthy of the same tax bracket as millionaires. 
''The very round nature of it suggests that it's arbitrary,'' said Roberton Williams, a senior fellow at the Tax Policy Center and the deputy assistant director for tax analysis at the Congressional Budget Office from 1998 to 2006. ''There's nothing magical about $250,000 per year. It has no economic basis.''
It does have a political basis.
The dividing line appears to have its genesis in 1993, when President Bill Clinton created a new tax bracket at $250,000 and raised the rate to 39.6 percent. Prior to Mr. Clinton's new bracket, the highest earners were those defined by making more than $86,500; they paid 31 percent under the first President George Bush.
Mr. Obama started using the $250,000 household income level to define wealthy Americans during his campaign in 2008. Under his budget proposal, a target of the Republicans in recent weeks as part of a fierce battle over raising the debt ceiling, the tax cuts enacted by his predecessor, President George W. Bush, would be reversed for those households. Mr. Obama's proposed top household income tax bracket -- starting at $250,000 -- would pay 39.6 percent on federal income. (Single filers making $200,00 or more would also be in the highest bracket.) Currently, the highest tax bracket starts at $379,150, and they pay 35 percent.
Aides that worked with Mr. Obama during his campaign said he latched onto $250,000 because it helped invoke President Clinton's era of economic prosperity in the 1990s -- a demonstration, the argument goes, that higher taxes did not hinder growth.
He was also following an analysis by Thomas Piketty, a widely followed economist at the Paris School of Economics, and Emmanuel Saez at the University of California, Berkeley. Their study on economic equality showed that the rich have gotten richer -- income for the top 1 percent rose by $261,930, or 30 percent, from 2002 to 2008 -- while the bottom 90 percent saw their incomes drop by $1,170, or 4 percent, on an inflation adjusted basis.
The economists concluded: ''We need to decide as a society whether this increase in income inequality is efficient and acceptable and, if not, what mix of institutional reforms should be developed to counter it.''
Whatever the policy debates, households at President Obama's dividing line might be wealthy, but that doesn't mean they feel wealthy.
On a Yahoo message board, a poster named Mason, who lives in Manhattan with two young children, said his household income was $262,000. ''I understand the need to raise taxes,'' he wrote, ''but I don't understand why people like us are lumped in with millionaires and billionaires.''
On one level, Mason is feeling the effects of inflation; $250,000 isn't what it used to be. If Mr. Obama were really trying to return to Mr. Clinton's 1993 levels, he would have to adjust the bracket for inflation, moving it up to about $386,075. In fact, in Mr. Clinton's last year in office, the top bracket had risen to $288,350 from $250,000.
Then there is the problem of keeping up with the Joneses. In 1993, earning $250,000 was a more exclusive club, making it easier to feel like one of the wealthy. Back then, households making more than $200,000 represented about .08 percent of the country.
And today, $250,000 households tend to be clustered on the coasts, where there are often better-paying jobs.
The Fiscal Times, a publication financed by Peter G. Peterson, the very public deficit hawk and former commerce secretary under President Richard Nixon, commissioned BDO, an accounting firm, to look at how households that make $250,000 fared in different parts of the country, mostly in middle- to upper-class neighborhoods.
The takeaway, according to the study: ''It's not exactly Easy Street for our $250,000-a-year family, especially when they live in high-tax areas on either coast.''
Even when including in its estimates an additional $3,000 from investment income, the report said, families ''end up in the red -- after taxes, saving for retirement and their children's education, and a middle-of-the-road cost of living -- in seven out of the eight communities in the analysis.''
There is also an issue of fairness, say some economists and advocates of tax reform. The truly rich -- the ''millionaires and billionaires'' -- often pay much less in taxes. The wealthiest 400 Americans in the country paid, on average, a rate of only 16.6 percent, according to the latest report from the I.R.S. that examined returns from 2007. That is because much of the income of the country's wealthiest people comes from investments, which is taxed at the long-term capital gains rate of just 15 percent.
So far, neither Democrats nor Republicans dare talk about raising the long-term capital gains tax out of fear that it would reduce crucial investments that could produce jobs.
Tax brackets could be added for the wealthiest -- for instance, a millionaire's tax. In 2009, the House of Representatives included 5.4 percent surtax on millionaires as part its health bill, but the tax later morphed into the Medicare payroll tax on households making more than $250,000.
Peter R. Orszag, the former director of the Office of Management and Budget under President Obama, said a millionaire's tax ''is an idea that has been discussed in Democratic policy circles,'' but that ultimately it was outweighed by ''economic concerns that marginal tax rates could creep over the 60 percent range'' in certain cities in the country, when factoring in state and local taxes.
There is also a question about whether enough money could be collected from those ''millionaires and billionaires'' to make up for lost revenue from households making mid-six figures.
''The problem is that there's not really enough income even at the top,'' Mr. Williams, of the Tax Policy Center, said. ''To close the deficit to 3 percent of G.D.P., we'd have to raise the top rate to 77 percent, which would change behavior, so you might have to raise the income tax even higher, perhaps to 90 percent.''
Right after World War II, the highest rate was roughly that. Indeed, for most of the 1950s, '60s and '70s the highest rate was about 70 percent. Even under President Ronald Reagan in 1986, the highest rate was 50 percent.
Of course, the Reagan revolution was about those high tax rates. And we are unlikely to see those rates anytime soon.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY ED NACIONAL)(WK1
 WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); DEBT CEILING (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); FAMILY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); TAX REFORM (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



491 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2007 words

HEADLINE: J. Lo: The Sequel

BYLINE: By NICOLE La PORTE

 BODY:
SHE arrived like a modern-day Cleopatra, smiling and waving down at her adoring masses from the top deck of a trolley, her blown-out tresses fluttering in the wind.
''Lauren Bacall said, 'It's all about exits and entrances,' '' clucked Jennifer Lopez's publicist as the star -- Saran-wrapped in a sparkly gold jumpsuit -- descended the trolley stairs and tottered atop perilously high heels toward a makeshift red carpet set up at the Grove, an outdoor mall in Los Angeles, where she was taping a segment for ''Extra.''
Amid shrieks and iPhone flashes, Ms. Lopez climbed up onstage and talked about her new album, ''Love?'' (Island Def Jam); about being a spokeswoman for L'Oreal; and about how to dress in her style for less.
''It doesn't have to be expensive,'' she said brightly, as models sashayed across the stage in Lopez-inspired outfits culled from the racks of Macy's. 
Meet the new, user-friendly J. Lo, who is back to doing it all, only without the imperious attitude that helped propel her to fame. In a few days she would fly to New York to introduce the new fashion lines that she and her husband, Marc Anthony, are designing for Kohl's. Then she would return to L.A. for a flurry of events promoting ''Love?'' and her twice-a-week gig as a judge on the popular TV show ''American Idol.''
Until recently, Ms. Lopez's career trajectory was mirrored by the infamous tumble she took while performing her recession-insensitive ode to $900 shoes, ''Louboutins,'' at the 2009 American Music Awards. She and Sony, her longtime record company, split up after several lackluster albums. Her film ''The Back-Up Plan'' missed the mark.
But with ''Idol,'' which has 25 million viewers, Ms. Lopez, 41 and a former Fly Girl, has not only re-entered the public consciousness, but also modified the goddesslike persona that had become a liability. Whatever her protestations that she was Jenny From the Block, as her fame escalated in the early 2000s, Ms. Lopez became known as a demanding diva, thanks in part to a music video in which she cavorted shamelessly, and half-nude, on a yacht with Ben Affleck, her boyfriend at the time (the couple ended their engagement in 2004).
Today, Ms. Lopez is being praised for being a ''nice,'' constructive judge who, at this point, has shed more tears than any of the contestants. (When she said goodbye to Chris Medina, a young barista whose fiancee suffered a brain-damaging car accident just before he auditioned for ''Idol,'' Ms. Lopez was so distraught that she had to be consoled by fellow judges Randy Jackson and Steven Tyler.)
''Right now, Jennifer is a celebrity of the people, and it's a strategy that is really, really working for her,'' said Peter Castro, deputy managing editor of People, which recently named Ms. Lopez as the world's most beautiful woman. ''Before, there was a huge distance with the American public.''
Ms. Lopez, however, bats away the idea that there has been a makeover.
''The person everyone's getting to know on 'Idol' now is always the person I've been,'' she said one recent evening, after a taping. She'd changed out of the Nina Ricci dress she'd worn on the show and was stretched out on a sofa in her trailer, swaddled in cream-colored cashmere. The only concession to flash: a pair of studded, yes, Louboutins.
''I just think I went away for a while, and I'm being reintroduced to the public,'' she went on. ''And people who knew me from before are like: 'Oh my God! I remember her!' And then people who didn't know me at all are just getting to know me for the first time. So I think it just feels brand new. It feels brand new to me, too, by the way. You know, this feels like my first album felt. It has that type of energy.''
Well, maybe a little less energy. Now the mother of 3-year-old twins (she said that she has no nanny and that family members take turns baby-sitting), Ms. Lopez insisted that she does not go as ''full throttle'' as she used to.
''I know how to say 'no' now,'' she said. ''I say: 'I'm tired. I can't do this. I'm not doing that tomorrow.' I have kids now, so my life is not completely my own. They come first.''
In an ad campaign for Gucci's new children's collection, she is featured playing with her kids on the beach -- a stark contrast from the severe S & M-ish shots she did for Louis Vuitton in 2003.
Still, J. Lo is not exactly Donna Reed.
''This is the woman who lays out three outfits for her kids and her husband every day before she leaves,'' said Ms. Lopez's manager, Benny Medina. ''Every day! She may not be there for breakfast, but by the time she leaves, they all have three different outfits.''
Last spring, when Ms. Lopez was first asked to be a part of ''Idol'' 's post-Simon Cowell reboot, she initially dismissed the idea. Then she realized the schedule would keep her close to her family. ''I love artists, working with them and collaborating with them, and this seemed like the ultimate way to do that,'' she said. ''And it has turned out to be that, even more than I expected.''
Although early chatter this season was focused on Mr. Tyler, the former Aerosmith frontman and another newcomer to the judging panel, these days it's all about J. Lo -- including, most importantly, what is she wearing?
At a recent taping ''Idol'' taping, during one commercial break, a chorus of young girls shouted out from the top of the bleachers: ''J. Lo, we love your shoes!''
(There was less enthusiasm for the Roberto Cavalli drop-crotch pants Ms. Lopez wore when she performed her new single, ''On the Floor,'' a few days later.)
''She's made 'Idol' glamorous,'' said Simon Fuller, ''Idol'' 's creator and executive producer. ''There's something incredible when you have a superstar on the panel, who's peaking in her career. You turn on the radio, you hear her song. You tune into other news channels or entertainment shows, they're talking about her. You pick up any magazine, and there's Jennifer Lopez.''
But what can ''Idol'' do for a star whose talent for fame has always superseded that for singing, dancing and acting?
Her catchy track ''On the Floor,'' featuring the rapper Pitbull, is a hit, selling more than 1.5 million copies, according to Nielsen SoundScan. The response to ''Love?,'' which features the work of the Lady Gaga producer RedOne, has been less spectacular, though. In its first week, the album sold 83,000 copies, according to SoundScan -- an improvement over Ms. Lopez's last English-speaking album, ''Brave,'' in 2007, but well behind the Beastie Boys' ''Hot Sauce Committee Part 2.''
On the film front, Ms. Lopez has been cast as a voice in 20th Century Fox's next animated ''Ice Age'' movie, and is considering a leading role in a drama at Fox, where (per her ''Idol'' contract) her Nuyorican Productions company has a deal. But her box-office heat has cooled considerably since she was critically lauded for ''Out of Sight'' and carried high-grossing, romantic comedies like ''The Wedding Planner.'' (One word: ''Gigli.'')
''I don't know anyone who bats a thousand in the movie business,'' Ms. Lopez said. ''I've made some great movies, and I've made some not-so-great movies.''
She added: ''Would I have wanted more opportunities to work on even greater films, consistently? Sure. Everyone wants to work on the great movie and have the great role and get nominated for an Oscar every time. Life is not like that.''
According to Mr. Medina, the most important thing for Ms. Lopez right now is her ''presentation,'' which he thinks has been helped by a new group of handlers -- chiefly himself.
In recent years, ''I could tell there were people around that weren't sensitive to the nuances of how Jennifer Lopez music should be presented -- her artistry,'' Mr. Medina said. ''It didn't have any special, Jennifer kind of flair. To me, Jennifer defined a glamour and a New York, street-edge, Girl-From-the-Bronx-Gone-to-Hollywood-Done-Well attitude, and that has to come across in how she's presented.''
(Last fall, Ms. Lopez fired her longtime publicists at the public relations powerhouse BWR.)
Mr. Medina, who discovered Will Smith and has worked with Mariah Carey, has been around the block with Jenny before. In the late 1990s he helped turn her into a global brand with albums like ''This is Me ... Then'' and ''J. Lo'' and fragrance and fashion lines.
But in 2003, in the thick of her ''Bennifer'' period, Ms. Lopez's relationship with Mr. Medina fell apart, culminating in a lawsuit she filed alleging that he had misappropriated more than $100,000. (Ms. Lopez's publicist, Mark Young, wrote in an e-mail that the lawsuit was ''never pursued'' and was resolved by a ''financial solution.'')
By 2004, Ms. Lopez had retreated with her husband -- now also one of her key professional advisers, she said -- to Miami. Although she continued to star in films and to record music, her public profile dimmed.
The origins of her ''rebirth'' as her team likes to call it, date back more than three years, when Mr. Medina and Ms. Lopez ran into each other at an event after years of not speaking. Ms. Lopez was seven months' pregnant, and without saying anything, Mr. Medina dropped an envelope in her lap. It was an application to be her twins' godfather -- a role they had always talked about his having.
''It was like passing a note in class to the girl that you love,'' Ms. Lopez recalled. ''Kinda like, 'Throw it to her.' I got it on my lap.''
''I read it,'' she said, ''and it was so sweet.
''And I realized that we really belong together, in each other's lives.''
At the Grove event, Mr. Medina hovered near the stage, looking like a football coach calling out plays to the event producers, who every few seconds would hustle over to him and nod their heads obediently as he gave orders. Ms. Lopez periodically looked his way as she smiled through sunny sound bites. When it was time for Ms. Lopez's all-important exit, and there was confusion about how she would leave the stage, Mr. Medina shouted to one frightened-looking minion: ''I don't care what they say! Just do it!''
Standing a few feet from Mr. Medina, Joe Francis, creator of ''Girls Gone Wild,'' said: ''Normally, he's more hands-on. With Mariah, he'd be up onstage, telling her what to say.
''With J. Lo, he gives her a little more leeway,'' said Mr. Francis, who was texting Kim Kardashian (whom he said he ''idolizes'' and who ''wants to be'' Ms. Lopez).
The star, however, seems to have learned that she can't control everything. In her trailer, when asked what the biggest disappointment in her career had been, she didn't hesitate: her failed fashion lines.
''That was sad for me,'' she said, as she pushed a strand of stray hair back in place. ''I just felt like I never got a fair chance to do it right. And on top of it, I felt like I was trapped in a situation I couldn't get out of, and my name was stamped on things that I didn't believe in.''
As for what went wrong -- the sportswear line, which had its debut in 2001, was criticized for being overpriced and cheaply made -- Ms. Lopez said she ''didn't understand the business well enough'' and didn't have enough creative control. More crucially, she didn't seem to understand how to translate her iconic red carpet style -- the navel-plunging green Versace gown she wore to the Grammy Awards in 2000; the mink eyelashes -- to an off-the-rack business. The Kohl's partnership is an attempt to rectify this with a Jessica Simpson-like ''lifestyle brand'' oriented toward the bargain shopper.
''The difference this time around is that Jennifer is fully engaged with a company that is professionally staffed to really develop anything she wants, from towels to knee-high suede boots,'' said the fashion mogul Tommy Hilfiger, a partner in the deal (his younger brother, Andy, oversaw Ms. Lopez's original line). ''Literally, her wish is their command.''
And he has no doubt she'll succeed.
''She lives fashion,'' Mr. Hilfiger said.'' She sings about and says it's the most fun thing about getting ready for 'Idol.' Her eyes light up when you ask her what kind of shoes she's wearing. Louboutins, naturally.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BACK ON TOP: Jennifer Lopez signing autographs after an appearance at the Grove, an outdoor mall in Los Angeles.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1)
DAY AND NIGHT Jennifer Lopez backstage at ''Ellen,'' above
at left top with ''American Idol'' colleagues, from left, Steven Tyler, Randy Jackson and Ryan Seacrest, and below left, appearing on ''Extra'' with Jamie Krell, center, and Mario Lopez. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
KEVIN WINTER/GETTY IMAGES)
GLOWING: Jennifer Lopez in Gucci at the Costume Institute gala, below, and on the cover of People. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (GALA)) (ST12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (88%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (88%); CELEBRITIES (76%); RECORD RELEASES (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); REALITY TELEVISION (64%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%)

COMPANY: L'OREAL SA (91%)

TICKER: OR (PAR) (91%); OR (BIT) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (91%)

PERSON: JENNIFER LOPEZ (94%); RYAN SEACREST (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); BIHAR, INDIA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%); INDIA (72%)

TITLE: American Idol (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



492 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: After Hinting Otherwise, Huckabee Says He Won't Run for President

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas said Saturday night that he would not seek the Republican nomination for president next year in an announcement that had been hotly anticipated -- in part because of contradicting hints he gave right up to the minute he finally made his intentions known.
''All the factors say go, but my heart says no,'' Mr. Huckabee said on his nighttime program on Fox News Channel. ''And that's the decision that I have made.'' 
As of Saturday afternoon, even some of Mr. Huckabee's closest aides did not know what he would say. He kept them waiting as long as possible, making the announcement at the very end of his hourlong 8 p.m. program after interviewing guests including the ''Extra'' host Mario Lopez and the rock musician Ted Nugent -- with whom he jammed on Mr. Nugent's old hit song ''Cat Scratch Fever.'' (Mr. Huckabee plays the bass guitar).
Even during his statement, Mr. Huckabee hinted that perhaps he would run. ''The past few weeks, the external signs and signals and answers to many of the obstacles point strongly toward running,'' he said after citing his strength in recent polls and what he said were hints of strong financial support for any run he might make.
But, he said, upon reflection he realized that ''under the best of circumstances, being president is a job that takes one to the limit of his or her human capacity. For me to do it apart from an inner confidence that I was undertaking it with God's full blessing is simply unthinkable.''
Mr. Huckabee had been showing strong poll numbers, among some of the strongest of his party's possible contenders.
His decision helps bring the fluid field of prospective Republican presidential candidates a step closer to solidifying, eliminating one possible -- and most likely potent -- contender from the mix, but leaving several other highly anticipated announcements outstanding, starting with those of Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana and former Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska.
Former Gov. Jon M. Huntsman Jr. of Utah, who recently left his post as President Obama's ambassador to China, is said to be seriously considering a run and is making moves that seem to indicate he is leaning toward doing so.
John R. Bolton, a former ambassador to the United Nations, said in a brief interview Saturday night that Mr. Huckabee's announcement made him more likely to enter the race. ''Anyone else considering it has to get serious about it,'' he said.
(An aide to Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota said Friday that she would be more likely to run, as well, if Mr. Huckabee decided against doing so.)
Had Mr. Huckabee entered the race, he would have been filling a perceptible void in the Republican field by becoming the presumed candidate of evangelicals, whose social issues have been largely swept aside as both parties focus most acutely on the economy and government spending.
Mr. Huckabee, an ordained Baptist minister and veteran of religious broadcasting, has carefully maintained ties to his colleagues in the religious sphere.
''He knows our issues backward and forward, and he knows our people backward and forward because he is one of them,'' said the Rev. Richard D. Land, the president of the Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission of the Southern Baptist Convention.
Mr. Huckabee's decision to forgo a run for president presumably leaves that space wide open for Ms. Palin, a self-described ''Bible-believing Christian,'' should she jump into the race.
Still, Dr. Land said there were candidates already running who could and would address the critical evangelical constituency, among them the former House speaker Newt Gingrich -- who has been actively reaching out to Christian groups -- and former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, who has been outspoken against same-sex marriage and about other conservative social causes.
Still, evangelicals have yet to rally to the side of any of the candidates thus far. In that regard, they resemble the party in general. ''It's anyone's game at this point,'' said Matthew Dowd, a former political adviser to President George W. Bush.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); POP & ROCK (68%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (68%); MUSIC (68%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: MICHAEL HUCKABEE (92%); JON HUNTSMAN (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MITCH DANIELS (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (91%); ARKANSAS, USA (91%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



493 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Chief, Arrested at Airport, Accused of Sex Attack at Hotel

BYLINE: By AL BAKER and STEVEN ERLANGER; William K. Rashbaum and Colin Moynihan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The managing director of the International Monetary Fund, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, was taken off an Air France plane at Kennedy International Airport minutes before it was to depart for Paris on Saturday, in connection with the sexual attack of a maid at a Midtown Manhattan hotel, the authorities said.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn, 62, who was widely expected to become the Socialist candidate for the French presidency, was apprehended by detectives of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey in the first-class section of the jetliner, and immediately turned over to detectives from the Midtown South Precinct, officials said.
The New York Police Department arrested Mr. Strauss-Kahn at 2:15 a.m. Sunday ''on charges of criminal sexual act, attempted rape, and an unlawful imprisonment in connection with a sexual assault on a 32-year-old chambermaid in the luxury suite of a Midtown Manhattan hotel yesterday'' about 1 p.m., Deputy Commissioner Paul J. Browne, the department's chief spokesman, said. 
Reached by telephone, Benjamin Brafman, a lawyer, said he would be representing Mr. Strauss-Kahn with William Taylor, a lawyer in Washington.
''We have not yet been able to meet with our client and we may have more to say tomorrow,'' said Mr. Brafman, who said he had been contacted late Saturday night. He said Mr. Strauss-Kahn was being housed at the police department's Special Victims Unit.
Early Sunday morning, Mr. Brafman said that his client ''will plead not guilty.''
Mr. Strauss-Kahn, a former French finance minister, had been expected to declare his candidacy soon, after three and a half years as the leader of the fund, which is based in Washington. He was considered by many to have done a good job in a period of intense global economic strain, when the institution itself had become vital to the smooth running of the world and the European economy.
His apprehension came at about 4:40 p.m., when two detectives of the Port Authority suddenly boarded Air France Flight 23, as the plane idled at the departure gate, said John P. L. Kelly, a spokesman for the agency.
''It was 10 minutes before its scheduled departure,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''They were just about to close the doors.''
Mr. Kelly said that Mr. Strauss-Kahn was traveling alone and that he was not handcuffed during the apprehension.
''He complied with the detectives' directions,'' Mr. Kelly said.
The Port Authority officers were acting on information from the Police Department, whose detectives had been investigating the assault of a female employee of Sofitel New York, at 45 West 44th Street, near Times Square. Working quickly, the city detectives learned he had boarded a flight at Kennedy Airport to leave the country.
Though Mr. Strauss-Kahn received generally high marks for his stewardship of the fund, his reputation was tarnished in 2008 by an affair with a Hungarian economist who was a subordinate there. The fund decided to stand by him despite concluding that he had shown poor judgment in the affair. Mr. Strauss-Kahn issued an apology to I.M.F. employees and to his wife, Anne Sinclair, an American-born French journalist whom he married in 1991.
In his statement then, Mr. Strauss-Kahn said, ''I am grateful that the board has confirmed that there was no abuse of authority on my part, but I accept that this incident represents a serious error of judgment.'' The economist, Piroska Nagy, left the fund as part of a buyout of nearly 600 employees instituted by Mr. Strauss-Kahn to cut costs.
In the New York case, Mr. Browne said that it was about 1 p.m. on Saturday when the maid, a 32-year-old woman, entered Mr. Strauss-Kahn's suite -- Room 2806 -- believing it was unoccupied. Mr. Browne said that the suite, which cost $3,000 a night, had a foyer, a conference room, a living room and a bedroom, and that Mr. Strauss-Khan had checked in on Friday.
As she was in the foyer, ''he came out of the bathroom, fully naked, and attempted to sexually assault her,'' Mr. Browne said, adding, ''He grabs her, according to her account, and pulls her into the bedroom and onto the bed.'' He locked the door to the suite, Mr. Browne said.
''She fights him off, and he then drags her down the hallway to the bathroom, where he sexually assaults her a second time,'' Mr. Browne added.
At some point during the assault, the woman broke free, Mr. Browne said, and ''she fled, reported it to other hotel personnel, who called 911.'' He added, ''When the police arrived, he was not there.'' Mr. Browne said Mr. Strauss-Kahn appeared to have left in a hurry. In the room, investigators found his cellphone, which he had left behind, and one law enforcement official said that the investigation uncovered forensic evidence that would contain DNA.
Mr. Browne added, ''We learned that he was on an Air France plane,'' and the plane was held at the gate, where Mr. Strauss-Kahn was taken into custody. Later Saturday night, Mr. Browne said Mr. Strauss-Kahn was in a police holding cell.
Mr. Browne said the city's Emergency Medical Service took the maid to Roosevelt Hospital for what Mr. Browne described as treatment for ''minor injuries.''
No matter the outcome of Saturday's episode, it will most likely throw the French political world into turmoil and the Socialist Party into an embarrassed confusion.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn, a leading member of the party, has been considered the front-runner for the next presidential election in France in May 2012. Opinion polls have shown him to be the Socialists' most popular candidate and running well ahead of the incumbent, Nicolas Sarkozy, who leads the center-right party.
France has been waiting for Mr. Strauss-Kahn to decide whether to run for his party's nomination in a series of primaries, which would mean giving up his post at the fund.
The view in France was that if Mr. Strauss-Kahn wanted to run, he would have to make his intentions clear early this summer, and most politicians and analysts have been predicting that he would not be able to resist the chance to run the country.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn contested for the nomination five years ago, losing to Segolene Royal, who ultimately lost a second-round runoff to Mr. Sarkozy. Mr. Sarkozy then arranged for Mr. Strauss-Kahn to get the I.M.F. job, partly to remove a popular rival from France's political landscape.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn was the French minister of economy under the Socialist prime minister Lionel Jospin, from 1997 to 1999, and he has also been a professor of economics at the Paris Institute of Political Studies.
In 1995, he was elected mayor of Sarcelles, a poor suburb of Paris.
The couple are known to enjoy the finer things in life, and Mr. Strauss-Kahn has sometimes been attacked for being a ''caviar leftist.''
Recently Mr. Strauss-Kahn and his wife were photographed entering an expensive Porsche in Paris belonging to one of their friends. The image of a Socialist with Porsche tastes was quickly picked up by the news media, especially the newspapers that generally support Mr. Sarkozy.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 17, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article in some editions on Sunday about the apprehension of the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, in connection with a sexual attack of a maid at a Midtown Manhattan hotel misstated the year of his marriage to Anne Sinclair, an American-born French journalist. It was 1991, not 1995.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the managing director of the I.M.F. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEX OFFENSES (92%); AIRPORTS (91%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); AIRLINES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); CRIMINAL FALSE IMPRISONMENT (74%); LAWYERS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

TICKER: AF (PAR) (58%); AF (AMS) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011



494 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2007 words

HEADLINE: J. Lo: The Sequel

BYLINE: By NICOLE La PORTE

 BODY:
SHE arrived like a modern-day Cleopatra, smiling and waving down at her adoring masses from the top deck of a trolley, her blown-out tresses fluttering in the wind.
''Lauren Bacall said, 'It's all about exits and entrances,' '' clucked Jennifer Lopez's publicist as the star -- Saran-wrapped in a sparkly gold jumpsuit -- descended the trolley stairs and tottered atop perilously high heels toward a makeshift red carpet set up at the Grove, an outdoor mall in Los Angeles, where she was taping a segment for ''Extra.''
Amid shrieks and iPhone flashes, Ms. Lopez climbed up onstage and talked about her new album, ''Love?'' (Island Def Jam); about being a spokeswoman for L'Oreal; and about how to dress in her style for less.
''It doesn't have to be expensive,'' she said brightly, as models sashayed across the stage in Lopez-inspired outfits culled from the racks of Macy's. 
Meet the new, user-friendly J. Lo, who is back to doing it all, only without the imperious attitude that helped propel her to fame. In a few days she would fly to New York to introduce the new fashion lines that she and her husband, Marc Anthony, are designing for Kohl's. Then she would return to L.A. for a flurry of events promoting ''Love?'' and her twice-a-week gig as a judge on the popular TV show ''American Idol.''
Until recently, Ms. Lopez's career trajectory was mirrored by the infamous tumble she took while performing her recession-insensitive ode to $900 shoes, ''Louboutins,'' at the 2009 American Music Awards. She and Sony, her longtime record company, split up after several lackluster albums. Her film ''The Back-Up Plan'' missed the mark.
But with ''Idol,'' which has 25 million viewers, Ms. Lopez, 41 and a former Fly Girl, has not only re-entered the public consciousness, but also modified the goddesslike persona that had become a liability. Whatever her protestations that she was Jenny From the Block, as her fame escalated in the early 2000s, Ms. Lopez became known as a demanding diva, thanks in part to a music video in which she cavorted shamelessly, and half-nude, on a yacht with Ben Affleck, her boyfriend at the time (the couple ended their engagement in 2004).
Today, Ms. Lopez is being praised for being a ''nice,'' constructive judge who, at this point, has shed more tears than any of the contestants. (When she said goodbye to Chris Medina, a young barista whose fiancee suffered a brain-damaging car accident just before he auditioned for ''Idol,'' Ms. Lopez was so distraught that she had to be consoled by fellow judges Randy Jackson and Steven Tyler.)
''Right now, Jennifer is a celebrity of the people, and it's a strategy that is really, really working for her,'' said Peter Castro, deputy managing editor of People, which recently named Ms. Lopez as the world's most beautiful woman. ''Before, there was a huge distance with the American public.''
Ms. Lopez, however, bats away the idea that there has been a makeover.
''The person everyone's getting to know on 'Idol' now is always the person I've been,'' she said one recent evening, after a taping. She'd changed out of the Nina Ricci dress she'd worn on the show and was stretched out on a sofa in her trailer, swaddled in cream-colored cashmere. The only concession to flash: a pair of studded, yes, Louboutins.
''I just think I went away for a while, and I'm being reintroduced to the public,'' she went on. ''And people who knew me from before are like: 'Oh my God! I remember her!' And then people who didn't know me at all are just getting to know me for the first time. So I think it just feels brand new. It feels brand new to me, too, by the way. You know, this feels like my first album felt. It has that type of energy.''
Well, maybe a little less energy. Now the mother of 3-year-old twins (she said that she has no nanny and that family members take turns baby-sitting), Ms. Lopez insisted that she does not go as ''full throttle'' as she used to.
''I know how to say 'no' now,'' she said. ''I say: 'I'm tired. I can't do this. I'm not doing that tomorrow.' I have kids now, so my life is not completely my own. They come first.''
In an ad campaign for Gucci's new children's collection, she is featured playing with her kids on the beach -- a stark contrast from the severe S & M-ish shots she did for Louis Vuitton in 2003.
Still, J. Lo is not exactly Donna Reed.
''This is the woman who lays out three outfits for her kids and her husband every day before she leaves,'' said Ms. Lopez's manager, Benny Medina. ''Every day! She may not be there for breakfast, but by the time she leaves, they all have three different outfits.''
Last spring, when Ms. Lopez was first asked to be a part of ''Idol'' 's post-Simon Cowell reboot, she initially dismissed the idea. Then she realized the schedule would keep her close to her family. ''I love artists, working with them and collaborating with them, and this seemed like the ultimate way to do that,'' she said. ''And it has turned out to be that, even more than I expected.''
Although early chatter this season was focused on Mr. Tyler, the former Aerosmith frontman and another newcomer to the judging panel, these days it's all about J. Lo -- including, most importantly, what is she wearing?
At a recent taping ''Idol'' taping, during one commercial break, a chorus of young girls shouted out from the top of the bleachers: ''J. Lo, we love your shoes!''
(There was less enthusiasm for the Roberto Cavalli drop-crotch pants Ms. Lopez wore when she performed her new single, ''On the Floor,'' a few days later.)
''She's made 'Idol' glamorous,'' said Simon Fuller, ''Idol'' 's creator and executive producer. ''There's something incredible when you have a superstar on the panel, who's peaking in her career. You turn on the radio, you hear her song. You tune into other news channels or entertainment shows, they're talking about her. You pick up any magazine, and there's Jennifer Lopez.''
But what can ''Idol'' do for a star whose talent for fame has always superseded that for singing, dancing and acting?
Her catchy track ''On the Floor,'' featuring the rapper Pitbull, is a hit, selling more than 1.5 million copies, according to Nielsen SoundScan. The response to ''Love?,'' which features the work of the Lady Gaga producer RedOne, has been less spectacular, though. In its first week, the album sold 83,000 copies, according to SoundScan -- an improvement over Ms. Lopez's last English-speaking album, ''Brave,'' in 2007, but well behind the Beastie Boys' ''Hot Sauce Committee Part 2.''
On the film front, Ms. Lopez has been cast as a voice in 20th Century Fox's next animated ''Ice Age'' movie, and is considering a leading role in a drama at Fox, where (per her ''Idol'' contract) her Nuyorican Productions company has a deal. But her box-office heat has cooled considerably since she was critically lauded for ''Out of Sight'' and carried high-grossing, romantic comedies like ''The Wedding Planner.'' (One word: ''Gigli.'')
''I don't know anyone who bats a thousand in the movie business,'' Ms. Lopez said. ''I've made some great movies, and I've made some not-so-great movies.''
She added: ''Would I have wanted more opportunities to work on even greater films, consistently? Sure. Everyone wants to work on the great movie and have the great role and get nominated for an Oscar every time. Life is not like that.''
According to Mr. Medina, the most important thing for Ms. Lopez right now is her ''presentation,'' which he thinks has been helped by a new group of handlers -- chiefly himself.
In recent years, ''I could tell there were people around that weren't sensitive to the nuances of how Jennifer Lopez music should be presented -- her artistry,'' Mr. Medina said. ''It didn't have any special, Jennifer kind of flair. To me, Jennifer defined a glamour and a New York, street-edge, Girl-From-the-Bronx-Gone-to-Hollywood-Done-Well attitude, and that has to come across in how she's presented.''
(Last fall, Ms. Lopez fired her longtime publicists at the public relations powerhouse BWR.)
Mr. Medina, who discovered Will Smith and has worked with Mariah Carey, has been around the block with Jenny before. In the late 1990s he helped turn her into a global brand with albums like ''This is Me ... Then'' and ''J. Lo'' and fragrance and fashion lines.
But in 2003, in the thick of her ''Bennifer'' period, Ms. Lopez's relationship with Mr. Medina fell apart, culminating in a lawsuit she filed alleging that he had misappropriated more than $100,000. (Ms. Lopez's publicist, Mark Young, wrote in an e-mail that the lawsuit was ''never pursued'' and was resolved by a ''financial solution.'')
By 2004, Ms. Lopez had retreated with her husband -- now also one of her key professional advisers, she said -- to Miami. Although she continued to star in films and to record music, her public profile dimmed.
The origins of her ''rebirth'' as her team likes to call it, date back more than three years, when Mr. Medina and Ms. Lopez ran into each other at an event after years of not speaking. Ms. Lopez was seven months' pregnant, and without saying anything, Mr. Medina dropped an envelope in her lap. It was an application to be her twins' godfather -- a role they had always talked about his having.
''It was like passing a note in class to the girl that you love,'' Ms. Lopez recalled. ''Kinda like, 'Throw it to her.' I got it on my lap.''
''I read it,'' she said, ''and it was so sweet.
''And I realized that we really belong together, in each other's lives.''
At the Grove event, Mr. Medina hovered near the stage, looking like a football coach calling out plays to the event producers, who every few seconds would hustle over to him and nod their heads obediently as he gave orders. Ms. Lopez periodically looked his way as she smiled through sunny sound bites. When it was time for Ms. Lopez's all-important exit, and there was confusion about how she would leave the stage, Mr. Medina shouted to one frightened-looking minion: ''I don't care what they say! Just do it!''
Standing a few feet from Mr. Medina, Joe Francis, creator of ''Girls Gone Wild,'' said: ''Normally, he's more hands-on. With Mariah, he'd be up onstage, telling her what to say.
''With J. Lo, he gives her a little more leeway,'' said Mr. Francis, who was texting Kim Kardashian (whom he said he ''idolizes'' and who ''wants to be'' Ms. Lopez).
The star, however, seems to have learned that she can't control everything. In her trailer, when asked what the biggest disappointment in her career had been, she didn't hesitate: her failed fashion lines.
''That was sad for me,'' she said, as she pushed a strand of stray hair back in place. ''I just felt like I never got a fair chance to do it right. And on top of it, I felt like I was trapped in a situation I couldn't get out of, and my name was stamped on things that I didn't believe in.''
As for what went wrong -- the sportswear line, which had its debut in 2001, was criticized for being overpriced and cheaply made -- Ms. Lopez said she ''didn't understand the business well enough'' and didn't have enough creative control. More crucially, she didn't seem to understand how to translate her iconic red carpet style -- the navel-plunging green Versace gown she wore to the Grammy Awards in 2000; the mink eyelashes -- to an off-the-rack business. The Kohl's partnership is an attempt to rectify this with a Jessica Simpson-like ''lifestyle brand'' oriented toward the bargain shopper.
''The difference this time around is that Jennifer is fully engaged with a company that is professionally staffed to really develop anything she wants, from towels to knee-high suede boots,'' said the fashion mogul Tommy Hilfiger, a partner in the deal (his younger brother, Andy, oversaw Ms. Lopez's original line). ''Literally, her wish is their command.''
And he has no doubt she'll succeed.
''She lives fashion,'' Mr. Hilfiger said.'' She sings about and says it's the most fun thing about getting ready for 'Idol.' Her eyes light up when you ask her what kind of shoes she's wearing. Louboutins, naturally.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BACK ON TOP: Jennifer Lopez signing autographs after an appearance at the Grove, an outdoor mall in Los Angeles.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1)
DAY AND NIGHT Jennifer Lopez backstage at ''Ellen,'' above
at left top with ''American Idol'' colleagues, from left, Steven Tyler, Randy Jackson and Ryan Seacrest, and below left, appearing on ''Extra'' with Jamie Krell, center, and Mario Lopez. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
KEVIN WINTER/GETTY IMAGES)
GLOWING: Jennifer Lopez in Gucci at the Costume Institute gala, below, and on the cover of People. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (GALA)) (ST12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (88%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (88%); CELEBRITIES (76%); RECORD RELEASES (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); REALITY TELEVISION (64%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%)

COMPANY: L'OREAL SA (91%)

TICKER: OR (PAR) (91%); OR (BIT) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (91%)

PERSON: JENNIFER LOPEZ (94%); RYAN SEACREST (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); BIHAR, INDIA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%); INDIA (72%)

TITLE: American Idol (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011



495 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Frugality Is a Virtue, but Politics Rule the Debt-Limit Fight

BYLINE: JOHN HARWOOD


HIGHLIGHT: Raising the federal debt limit has become a familiar Washington ritual in which both parties jockey for the right to say no.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - The president needed an increase in the federal debt limit. His partisan adversary, a powerful Ohio congressman, wanted something in return: deep spending cuts.
The president was Richard M. Nixon, the congressman was Charles A. Vanik and the year was 1970. Mr. Vanik, a Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee, did not win his $6 billion in spending cuts (equivalent to $34 billion today).
But Congress raised the debt limit anyway - as it has 78 times since 1960 in what has become a familiar Washington ritual. This spring, the debt limit has become a burden that President Obama, Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio and the Senate Democratic leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, must share, even as they joust over the terms.
Leaders in both parties loathe the action as the ultimate thankless obligation. It collides directly with the oft-ignored American instinct that "frugality is an enriching virtue," in the words of Benjamin Franklin.
"No one wants to vote to increase the debt limit," said Donald Marron, a former economic adviser to President George W. Bush who now runs the Tax Policy Center. But neither does any leader in Congress dispute that "the cap has to go up."
That history explains why financial markets have shrugged off the drama now building around the debt limit. When Mr. Boehner warned last week that "there will be no debt-limit increase" without deep spending cuts, his audience at the New York Economic Club responded with polite applause and no apparent alarm.
As politicians with governing responsibility, Mr. Obama, Mr. Boehner and Mr. Reid must amass legislative majorities for an increase by August to preclude government default, according to the Treasury Department. That effort also includes, Mr. Marron noted, "jockeying to see who wins the right to vote 'no.' "
A Tempting Target
Congress assigned itself the debt-ceiling chore when it first limited federal borrowing authority in 1917, after the United States entered World War I under President Woodrow Wilson.
It turned into a reliable instrument of partisan and ideological combat. And because persistent government deficits required it to rise regularly, the debt limit turned, by the late 1960s, into a favored vehicle that lawmakers could use to pursue other goals.
Many have focused on budget restraint, like with the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings law in the 1980s, which its sponsors pushed during a debt-limit fight. Today's negotiations over long-term deficit reduction in tandem with the debt-limit legislation in many ways mirror that effort.
Democrats and Republicans over the years have used debt-limit fights to try to freeze nuclear weapons, ban school busing and allow school prayer, according to a 1993 study by Linda Kowalcky and Lance LeLoup, political scientists at the University of Missouri. In the early 1980s, Senator Howard Baker, a Tennessee Republican who was then the majority leader, attracted 1,400 proposals when he threw a debt-limit bill open to amendments on other issues.
Members of both parties eventually abandoned all of them. But the target the debt limit provides has turned legislative leaders and presidents alike into supplicants on the issue, as Mr. Obama is now.
"Dear Howard," President Ronald Reagan wrote to Mr. Baker on Nov. 16, 1983, warning that failure to raise the debt limit could cause "incalculable damage," including the "denigration of the full faith and credit of the United States."
The limit went up later that month - one of 18 times during Reagan's tenure.
Haunting Obama
Mr. Obama's own 2006 Senate vote against raising the debt limit punctuates how it has become among the most nakedly partisan issues on Capitol Hill. As a Democrat in a Congress controlled by Republicans, serving under a Republican president, Mr. Obama cast what he now acknowledges was a "political vote."
Most lawmakers in both parties have done precisely the same thing - for decades. Debt-limit votes partly reflect a lawmaker's stance on fiscal policy, but more than that, they display their willingness to accept the risk of a "yes" vote out of fealty to presidents and legislative leaders of their own parties.
"I do not see any reason," Representative Barber Conable, Republican of New York, said in a 1979 debate cited in the political scientists' study, "why the minority should be required to let those majority members who are from marginal districts have the benefit of voting against this bill politically, which you would have us deny to ourselves."
Thus in the last debt-limit vote under President Jimmy Carter, a Democrat, all 154 Republicans voted "no." The next year, with Reagan occupying the Oval Office, Republicans voted 150-36 in favor of an increase.
Turning the tables, House Democrats voted unanimously against raising the debt ceiling in 2004, with Mr. Bush in the Oval Office and Republicans controlling the House. In 2006, so did Mr. Obama and all other Senate Democrats.
In effect, responsibility for raising the debt limit represents "a tax on the political majority," Mr. Marron said. "It's the cost of being in charge."
Mr. Boehner began preparing his members to pay that levy soon after the election, when he cautioned that they had to act as "adults" on the debt limit. That is why even prominent liberals like Andrew Stern, the former labor leader who served on the president's deficit reduction commission last year, express confidence that the speaker's spending-cut demands will not block a debt-limit deal with Mr. Reid and Mr. Obama.
"I think it does get done," he said.

        
Amid Din, Serious Talk on Debt
        
McDonnell Says a Governor Should Replace Obama
        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend
        
Obama Speech Defends Liberal Principles
        
Obama Seeks to Reshape Debate Over Debt 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); DEBT CEILING (94%); NATIONAL DEBT (93%); PUBLIC DEBT (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); TAX LAW (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); RELIGION (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); WORLD WAR I (66%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (64%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (64%); SCIENCE NEWS (62%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (62%); RELIGION IN SCHOOLS (60%); CHURCH & STATE (50%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%) Democrats; economy; federal budget; national debt; Republicans; United States Politics and Government; Federal Budget (US); National Debt (US); United States Economy; Democratic Party; Republican Party; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Republican Party

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (78%); RICHARD NIXON (73%); HARRY REID (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



496 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2011

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: The French Reaction to I.M.F. Chief's Arrest

BYLINE: DAN BILEFSKY


HIGHLIGHT: The arrest of the I.M.F. chief, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, inspiring a mix of contempt, sympathy, expressions of national humiliation and more than a few conspiracy theories that the contender for the French presidency had been set up by his rivals.

 BODY:
The arrest of the chief of the International Monetary Fund, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, for an alleged sexual attack of a maid at a New York hotel sent tremors through the French media and blogosphere on Sunday, inspiring a mix of contempt, sympathy, expressions of national humiliation and more than a few conspiracy theories that the contender for the French presidency had been set up by his rivals.
On the news itself, Le Monde noted that the arrest of DSK, as Mr. Strauss-Kahn is known in France, first seeped out at 4:59 p.m. Eastern time - reported not by journalists but in a seemingly offhanded way, like the raid on Osama bin Laden. "The raid against Bin Laden was tweeted as it was taking place. Now we have the arrest of DSK tweeted before it was reported by the rest of the media," tweeted @Marc. He cited a message by Jonathan Pinet (@j_pinet), a student at France's elite university Sciences Po, who had credited a friend with the global scoop:
un pote aux Etats-Unis vient de me rapporter que #DSK aurait ete arrete par la police dans un hotel a NYC il y a une heure.less than a minute ago via web Favorite Retweet ReplyJonathan Pinetj_pinet
"A buddy in the U.S. just told me that DSK was said to have been arrested by the police at a hotel in NYC an hour ago."
He said the friend was French Canadian and heard the news from another friend who had a friend who worked at the Sofitel where Mr. Strauss-Kahn had stayed.
The news of Mr. Strauss-Kahn's arrest in New York dominated special editions of Paris newspapers and prompted blanket coverage on television and radio. With Mr. Strauss-Kahn's penchant for luxury having already earned him a reputation as a "champagne Socialist" in France, some in the French press underlined that Mr. Strauss-Kahn was staying in a $3,000-a-night suite at New York's Sofitel, when the attack allegedly took place.
Read more.
A journalist, Tristane Banon, came forward to say that Mr Strauss-Kahn tried sexually assault her in 2002, and then covered it up, according to reports. She had discussed the incident publicly before, the reports say, but only in a new interview with Agora Vox did she say that Mr. Strauss-Kahn was the attacker, according the the reports.
On Sunday, French politicians and the media characterized the arrest as political earthquake as well as a soap opera. "It's an episode of Dallas and DSK is JR!" said Lionnel Luca, a lawmaker in Mr. Sarkozy's center-right UMP party, according to a roundup of reactions, published by the French newspaper Liberation, under the headline: "Shock. Political Bomb. Thunderclap." "Real or false, this affair concerning the director of the IMF puts him out of the Presidential race even before the Socialist Party's primaries and above all it also discredits France on the international stage," Mr. Luca said.
Le Monde also reported that Mr Strauss-Kahn was visited Saturday by the French consulate general, Philippe Lalliot, in line with his regular duties. "The French embassy and consulate are mobilized," said a French foreign ministry spokesman is quoted as saying.
The political fallout of the arrest in France received wide attention. As my colleagues Katherine Bennhold and Liz Alderman report in The International Herald Tribune, the arrest has set the stage for a reconfiguration of the political landscape in France that could allow the far right National Front, led by its founder's daughter, Marine Le Pen, to become a potent force in upcoming elections.
"He's definitely discredited," Ms. Le Pen said Sunday on French television. "The case and the charges mark the end of his campaign for the presidency, and will likely prompt the I.M.F. to ask him to leave his post."
But even as officials close to the French President Nicolas Sarkozy privately expressed visceral delight at the misfortune of Mr. Strauss-Kahn, who was widely seen before his arrest as a serious threat to Mr. Sarkozy, there were also calls for restraint. Le Monde noted that French government spokesman Francois Baroin's had called for "extraordinary prudence."
Mr. Baroin told the network France 2 that the French government was cleaving to two principles: that a legal process was under way under the authority of the American justice system and that the presumption of innocence must also be respected.
Others cautioned against premature announcements of Mr. Strauss-Kahn's political demise, and noted that France was far less puritanical than the United States when it came to the sexual misdeeds, however egregious, of its politicians. Brice Teinturier, chief pollster of Ipsos in France, told the I.H.T. that the recent images of Mr. Strauss-Kahn getting out of the flashy Porsche of a former adviser had prompted predictions that his approval ratings would tumble during a period of economic depression. "Instead, they rose even further," Mr. Teinturier said.
Gilles Savary, a member of the European Parliament who belongs to Mr. Strauss-Kahn's Socialist Party, wrote on his blog that the arrest of Mr. Strauss-Kahn had hints of American-style hypocrisy. "Everyone knows that Dominique Strauss-Kahn is a libertine, and that he is distinguished from others by the fact that he doesn't try and hide it," he wrote. "In puritanical American, infiltrated by rigorous Protestantism, financial misdeeds are far more tolerated than pleasures of the flesh."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSPIRACY (90%); ARRESTS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); WRITERS (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (67%) Arrest of I.M.F. Chief; Dominique Strauss-Kahn; I.M.F.; Strauss-Kahn, Dominique; Le Monde; France; News

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%) Le Monde

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (96%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (68%) Strauss-Kahn, Dominique

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (93%) France

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



497 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Voices From the Buses on the Road to Civil Rights

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
The filmmaker Stanley Nelson has a stunning accomplishment in ''Freedom Riders,'' a documentary that chronicles a crucial, devastating episode of the civil rights movement, an episode whose gruesome visuals impinged on the perception of American liberty around the world. Commemorating the 50th anniversary of the freedom rides, the film (to be shown Monday on PBS) is a story of ennobled youth and noxious hatred, of decided courage and inexplicable brutality. In May 1961 the Congress of Racial Equality sought to challenge the segregation of interstate travel on public transport and sent forth activists, both black and white, and many of them students, on a bus journey through the South, where they were received with violence that law enforcers refused to tame.
It is hard to imagine a feature film conveying the events with a more vivid sense of drama or suspense. The commentators -- the riders themselves, historians, politicians, civil rights leaders -- have mostly been chosen for an uncanny ability to convey the tension in a present-tense reconstruction. Blowhards and professors of the obvious have been excised, and the archival photographs and news clips have been edited down to those most affecting and lyrical. 
The story told begins like this: On Mother's Day in 1961 two buses departed Atlanta headed for Birmingham, Ala. CORE leaders assumed that the activists would confront hostility, but they had no idea what would follow. The first bus was burned in Anniston, Ala. Occupants of the second forged on with no knowledge of what their compatriots had just encountered. The riders possessed a fearlessness that leads you to imagine that even if cellphone technology had existed and had allowed them to be warned, little about their plans would have changed.
Birmingham, at the time among the most racially divided cities in the country, was not poised to greet the riders neutrally. The city was ruled by the notorious Bull Connor, a police commissioner economically described here by Julian Bond, a founder of the Southern Poverty Law Center, as ''some kind of psychopath, rabid on the subject of race.'' Connor had allotted the hordes of Klansmen intent on disrupting the arrival of the buses 15 minutes to beat, maim and burn the passengers, with the promise that none would be arrested.
One of the most bizarrely compelling figures to emerge in the film is John Patterson, then Alabama's governor, who had to be strong-armed by the federal government into offering protection to the riders. He speaks to the cameras now with an oddly casual air and no obvious sense of contrition. He says that he was afraid of Connor. He was also a political opportunist who had won the Democratic gubernatorial primary in 1958 with the support of the Ku Klux Klan. His opponent, George Wallace, had lost with the support of the N.A.A.C.P. (Wallace's segregationist politics flourished as a result of this defeat.)
''Freedom Riders'' implicitly and ably conveys the powerlessness of positive law in the face of a toxic cultural emotionalism. By the time the freedom riders had begun their efforts, the Supreme Court had twice handed down decisions -- first in 1946, in Morgan v. Virginia, and 14 years later in Boynton v. Virginia -- declaring segregation on buses and trains traveling between states a violation of interstate commerce laws. But Jim Crow traditions meant an ugly disregard for what was already mandated.
By the fall of 1961, 400 Americans had participated in the freedom rides, facing attack and arrest. That September the Interstate Commerce Commission delivered its order to end segregation on buses and in railway stations, and the civil rights movement had an enormous triumph. Now so too does this genre of documentary film. It is easy to imagine ''Freedom Riders,'' attaining the status of ''Eyes on the Prize,'' the multipart film on the history of the civil rights movement that has been an essential component of American history classes for years. ''Freedom Riders'' should have an equally long life.
AMERICAN EXPERIENCE
Freedom Riders
On PBS stations on Monday night (check local listings).
Written and directed by Stanley Nelson; based in part on the book ''Freedom Riders'' by Raymond Arsenault; Mr. Nelson and Laurens Grant, producers; Lewis Erskine and Aljernon Tunsil, editors; Lewanne Jones, archival producer; Stacey Holman, associate producer; Robert Shepard, director of photography; Tom Phillips, composer; Rena Kosersky, music supervisor. For American Experience: Sharon Grimberg, senior producer; Mark Samels, executive producer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Some freedom riders in Anniston, Ala., on May 14, 1961, after their bus was set on fire. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); FILM (90%); HISTORY (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); POLITICS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); GOVERNORS (63%); POLICE FORCES (62%); ARRESTS (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (63%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (92%) ALABAMA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Freedom Riders (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011



498 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Despite City Crackdown, Immigrants Still Are Often Cheated by Job Agencies

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Cristina Rivas, 49, an immigrant from El Salvador, thought her one-year search for steady work had finally come to an end. A Queens employment agency that she had paid $120 said it had found her a job as a waitress at an upscale restaurant. She needed only to show up.
But when Ms. Rivas arrived at the ''restaurant'' last year, she encountered an atmosphere far different from what had been promised. Men whistled at female employees. Tips were offered for private dances. Distraught, she asked for a refund from the agency, but it refused. 
''They exploited me,'' Ms. Rivas said in Spanish. ''They didn't act like human beings. They treated me like a slave.''
In some of the poorest neighborhoods across the city, immigrants hoping to land jobs through employment agencies have routinely been cheated out of money. They are often charged hundreds of dollars in fees, promised jobs that do not exist, and sent to abusive working environments.
Three years ago, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, responding to an influx of complaints about employment agencies, pledged to root out wrongdoing through undercover inspections and mandatory training for the agencies. ''The city is putting a stop to the widespread abuse and fraudulent behavior that for too long has cheated New Yorkers in need,'' he said at the time.
But achieving that goal has proved vexing, complicated by what is often a fly-by-night business culture and by the reluctance of many immigrants to speak up. The city is up against an industry that has multiplied rapidly during the economic downturn -- there are officially 350 agencies, but some advocates say the number exceeds 1,000. In the past six years, 36 have been shut down, but about 200 complaints a year come in, only a fraction of the probable violations.
''This is the tip of the iceberg,'' said Jonathan B. Mintz, commissioner of the city's Department of Consumer Affairs, which is leading the effort to crack down on abusive agencies. ''Achieving compliance in this industry is quite difficult.''
Owners of employment agencies acknowledge that there is abuse in the industry, but they say the city's campaign has harmed the reputation of honest enterprises and hurt business.
''We are not here to exploit people,'' said Antonio Ruiz, owner of Exito Agencia de Empleo in Queens. ''We are here to help them find work.''
For immigrants looking for a foothold in the economy, employment agencies are often the first stop. Many of these agencies are concentrated in Chinatown and Jackson Heights, Queens, both home to large immigrant communities.
Customers usually pay a fee of at least $100 to be placed in a job. The help in writing resumes and translating paperwork is especially enticing for illegal immigrants, who do not qualify for unemployment benefits.
Under city law, employment agencies are prohibited from guaranteeing applicants that they will find them jobs, and they are not permitted to place people in jobs that pay below minimum wage. Agencies are also required to provide a written contract, a detailed job description, and information on refunds and labor laws.
Consumers frequently complain that agencies require non-English speakers to sign contracts in English, or demand upfront payments, which in most cases are illegal. City officials say they have encountered agencies that plotted with businesses to dupe consumers and steal their money, and cases of women being sent for work to strip clubs, rather than to restaurants as they thought.
Adela Valdez, a community activist in Queens, said she had been cheated several times by employment agencies, including once when she was asked to work at a laundry for a one-week trial and was never compensated. She said elected officials should have done more to regulate the industry.
''Who are the laws for?'' she said. ''Those that have more money? We are the ones who have to work.''
Julissa Bisono, an organizer for Make the Road, a nonprofit immigrant advocacy group, said she often heard complaints from families about agencies that collected money one day and disappeared the next.
''It's like you gave money to a ghost,'' Ms. Bisono said. ''Sometimes those are the last $100 that they have.''
Her group has begun an effort to educate immigrants about consumer rights and the perils of employment agencies.
Some state lawmakers are proposing legislation to increase fines against employment agencies to $500, from $100, for each day a violation continues, and to make it a misdemeanor to accumulate three or more violations in a five-year span.
State Senator Adriano Espaillat, a Democrat who has sponsored a bill requiring employment agencies to prominently post information about the rights of applicants, said many immigrants did not know where to turn for help. In Washington Heights, Mr. Espaillat said, he has noticed a new scheme: agencies that arrange work and transportation for immigrants but withhold their paychecks. ''They're taking advantage of folks that don't know their rights,'' said Mr. Espaillat, who represents parts of Manhattan and the Bronx. ''It's very dehumanizing.''
For Ms. Rivas, the immigrant from El Salvador, the job search continued. After calling the city's 311 help line, she was able to get her money refunded. In all, the city has recovered more than $300,00 for customers cheated by employment agencies since 2005. She eventually found work as a nanny through another agency, working seven days a week to support her two children.
''We don't have another way of finding work,'' she said. ''If you don't speak English, you have to put your trust in them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cristina Rivas, outside her home in Flushing, Queens, says that many people who do not speak English must rely on employment agencies to have any hope of finding a job. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Adela Valdez, a community activist in Queens, says job agencies have cheated her several times. ''Who are the laws for?'' she said. ''Those that have more money?'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (95%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (77%); INSPECTIONS (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); WOMEN (70%); CONSUMER LAW (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (63%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011



499 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Options for Bringing Down the Cost of Health Care

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''The Missing Fifth'' (column, May 10), David Brooks says there are two basic ways to control health care costs: top-down government regulation (President Obama) and shifting costs to beneficiaries (Representative Paul D. Ryan). Neither approach alone or when combined is likely to work because neither improves health care or deals with the real drivers of medical inflation. 
Fee-for-service payment, a fragmented and disorganized medical care system focused on providers' income, and an investor-owned private insurance industry all contribute to rising costs. Fraudulent billing, duplicated and unnecessary services, and a large but unknown amount of defensive medicine compound the problem. These factors could be controlled in a public single-payer system that paid private not-for-profit organized groups of salaried physicians on a capitated basis to deliver quality care.
Difficult as such reform might be to achieve, there is hope in the fact that we are already spending enough to pay all the costs of a greatly improved system. Our problem is primarily political, and it should not take many more years for the general realization that major reform is not just the best, but the only, way to control costs.
ARNOLD S. RELMAN Cambridge, Mass., May 10, 2011
The writer is professor emeritus of medicine and social medicine at Harvard Medical School and former editor in chief of The New England Journal of Medicine.
To the Editor:
David Brooks cites the Dutch health care system and Representative Paul D. Ryan's Medicare privatization scheme as examples of shifting the cost of care to beneficiaries with premium supports.
As an American who has lived in the Netherlands for nine years, I can assure Mr. Brooks that if Mr. Ryan or anyone else offered a premium support system similar to that offered here, it would be warmly embraced by most Democrats.
Although insurance is offered through private companies, the highly regulated market requires insurers to offer comprehensive benefits to all customers at a reasonable premium, regardless of age or prior conditions. A risk equalization system prevents insurers from ''cherry picking'' healthier customers.
Employers are required to support workers' health care, and workers are required to obtain insurance. Co-payments are extremely low; mine are capped at 170 euros for 2011. Long-term care is covered by a public mandatory insurance program. Oh, and I can cover my infant son under my policy until age 18 -- at no charge.
This public-private hybrid consumes approximately half the percentage of gross domestic product as American health care while providing excellent quality.
AARON ISAACS Breda, the Netherlands, May 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); MEDICARE (77%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (72%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (69%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (54%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011



500 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Data Networks Pose A Threat to Wireless

BYLINE: By JENNA WORTHAM

 BODY:
Today, long-winded talkers need to worry about running out of minutes on their cellphone plans. But someday there will be no minutes to run out of -- just megabytes.
Wireless carriers now funnel voice and data traffic over two separate networks and charge customers accordingly. In the not-so-distant future, analysts and industry executives say, all mobile services, including text messages and voice and video calls, will travel over data networks.
Microsoft's recent $8.5 billion deal to buy Skype, the Internet calling service, could accelerate this change -- one that is forcing wireless carriers to adapt. Services like Skype can cut into the carriers' revenues because they offer easy ways to make phone calls, videoconference and send messages free over the Internet, encroaching on the ways that phone companies have traditionally made money. 
The telecommunications industry is already in a state of flux as more people disconnect their home telephone lines in favor of cellphones. Now the wireless carriers are looking for new ways to make money based on mobile broadband and applications, rather than voice minutes.
''Eventually, everything migrates to a data channel,'' said Brian Higgins, an executive at Verizon Wireless who is developing products and services for the company's high-speed 4G network. ''We're moving away from silos of communication to one where everything is combined together.''
Analysts tend to agree that Microsoft is not looking to steal business from the wireless carriers. Instead it hopes to revitalize itself by creating innovative software for smartphones and tablets, with Skype's services built in. Microsoft will need companies like AT&T and Verizon Wireless to put their confidence and marketing budgets behind those devices to appeal to consumers.
But the Skype deal also signifies a larger interest in next-generation communications services. It is not just Skype that the wireless companies need to worry about. A bevy of mobile messaging applications, including WhatsApp, Kik, GroupMe and textPlus, allow people to send messages over data networks, sidestepping the cost of sending and receiving standard text messages.
Carriers already must deal with many new competitors in the communications game. Name companies like Apple, Facebook and Google are making services available that traditionally only carriers could offer. Google, like Skype, offers ways to make free phone and video calls over the Internet. Apple lets iPhone owners make video calls.
The ultimate risk for the carriers, analysts say, is becoming ''dumb pipes,'' providing only the data connection and not selling any more sophisticated communications services themselves.
''Much of the value in communication now sits above basic connectivity,'' said Charles S. Golvin, a telecom analyst with Forrester Research. ''Things like IM, video calling like FaceTime, and Web conferencing. These are delivered to consumers by companies like Google, Apple and Cisco -- not the carriers.''
Chetan Sharma, an independent telecommunications analyst, points to one instance in which the growing popularity of using mobile applications to communicate has hurt a wireless company.
Last month, KPN, a wireless carrier in the Netherlands, cut its profit forecast and reported a 10 percent decline in quarterly revenue from text messaging, which the company attributed to applications that give people free access to voice and text services if they have a data plan.
''It's an early indicator that it could happen elsewhere,'' Mr. Sharma said.
In the United States, no signs indicate that the volume of text messages sent or voice minutes used is in decline, he said. But revenue from voice services has dropped steadily as carriers have move toward unlimited calling plans to stay competitive with one another, lowering the average revenue that can be generated per minute of talk time.
In the United States, Mr. Sharma said, voice revenue has declined 7 percent over the last four years, while data revenue has soared 132 percent. Over all, data revenue now makes up 35 percent of the total revenue for the wireless industry.
Carriers have responded to the shift toward digital communication differently. Some seek to leverage the new wave of services to differentiate themselves and gain an edge over competitors. Sprint, for example, recently united with Google to let its customers link their Sprint phone numbers to Google Voice, a service that rings all of a person's phones and even Gmail when someone calls that person's number.
Others, like Verizon Wireless, say there is plenty of money to be made from their mobile data networks. They say demand for data services will drive sales and adoption of smartphones, which are more lucrative to wireless carriers because they require expensive data plans.
''There will be an increased appetite for devices that can access higher bandwidth, which I find very encouraging,'' Mr. Higgins of Verizon said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chantelle Welp using Skype to talk with a friend in Boulder, Colo., from her dorm room at Suffolk University in Boston. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRETCHEN ERTL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (93%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TEXT MESSAGING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (89%); SMARTPHONES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); 4G WIRELESS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); BROADBAND (77%); TELECONFERENCING (77%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (76%); BUDGETS (75%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (72%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TABLET COMPUTERS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (68%)

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (93%); SKYPE SARL (92%); APPLE INC (85%); GOOGLE INC (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); FACEBOOK INC (52%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (50%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (85%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%); FORR (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (93%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS517919 ALL OTHER TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (85%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (85%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (85%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

PERSON: BRIAN HIGGINS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011



501 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: Ahead of Schedule, Indians Rock Again

BYLINE: By TYLER KEPNER

 BODY:
CLEVELAND -- Two flags hang from each lamppost on Ontario Street here, outside the home of the best team in baseball. On one side is a head shot of a smiling Cleveland Indians player. On the other is a photograph of that player shaking hands with a fan.
The Indians did not know they would be this good -- at 24-13, they lead the American League Central by three and a half games. The safe play, from a marketing standpoint, was to emphasize the ballpark experience, the special kind of intimacy that baseball offers. A team with 190 losses the last two seasons could promise little else to a jaded and wary fan base.
Privately, though, the Indians thought this was possible if their veterans got healthy and their young players developed. Chris Antonetti, the general manager, recruited bargain free agents with that sales pitch.
''The consensus outside the organization was maybe they were a year or two away,'' reliever Chad Durbin said. ''But Chris was adamant: 'Absolutely not. You can make your decision here, there or wherever, but this team's going to be better than everybody thinks.' '' 
Durbin pitched the last three seasons for the Philadelphia Phillies, who have essentially become what the Indians were in the second half of the 1990s, and not just because they have a former Indians manager (Charlie Manuel) and ace starter (Cliff Lee). The Phillies sell out every home game, as the Indians did for 455 consecutive dates from June 1995 to April 2001.
That does not happen in Cleveland anymore. The Indians blitzed to a 14-2 start at home for the first time in the 111 years of the franchise. Yet the team ranks last in the majors in attendance this season, averaging 15,648 a game. The dreary weather is partly to blame -- two of three games this weekend against Seattle were rained out -- but the Indians also ranked last in attendance in 2010.
''The fans here, they're either all in or they're sitting home,'' said outfielder Shelley Duncan, a former Yankee. ''They don't want to dive in completely and get their hearts broken. That's happened enough with people here. You see what happened with LeBron, with the Browns' history, this team's history. It's understandable. I don't blame them at all.''
Antonetti's office overlooks the Cavaliers' arena, which LeBron James fled last summer after failing to win a title in Cleveland. The Indians' president, Mark Shapiro, is the brother-in-law of Eric Mangini, the latest Browns coach to be fired well shy of the Super Bowl.
The Indians have not won the World Series since 1948, and in their last appearance, in 1997, closer Jose Mesa blew the lead in the ninth inning of Game 7 against the Florida Marlins. Even without a coronation for their glory days, the Indians' success -- six division titles and two pennants from 1995 through 2001 -- casts a long shadow.
''We need to pull back and do a better job of strategically assessing what we were and not look at ourselves through the lens of the mid-'90s,'' Shapiro said. ''It's just not the same operating circumstances and not the same city. We need to celebrate it, but celebrate it as our heritage and not as something attainable now.''
Several Fortune 500 companies that were based around Cleveland in 1997 have since left town, including BP, OfficeMax, TRW and National City Bank. According to Census figures, the city's population dropped 17 percent from 2000 to 2010. Only Detroit, at 25 percent, lost more residents.
Ten years ago, the Indians ranked fifth in the majors in payroll, at nearly $92 million. Two years later, they ranked 26th, after trading starter Bartolo Colon to Montreal for three future All-Stars: Grady Sizemore, Brandon Phillips and Lee. (The Indians' payroll again ranks 26th, around $49 million, this season.)
The success of the Colon deal and extensive internal research on the patterns of other teams emboldened the Indians to move aggressively in reshaping the team.
''Nobody ever says, 'Do you want to trade C. C. Sabathia, Cliff Lee and Victor Martinez?' '' Shapiro said. ''The answer is clearly no. The question is, what's the best way to get back to contention as quickly as possible?''
By trading players who often have more than one year left on their contracts, the Indians have maximized the return in talent while, of course, saving more money. The moves have alienated some fans but spared the team from prolonged down cycles that have plagued Pittsburgh, Kansas City and Baltimore.
The Indians won 93 games in 2005 and 96 two years later, when they nearly returned to the World Series. But for a franchise that relies on attendance to generate much of its revenue, that season offered a sobering lesson.
The team drew fewer than 2.3 million fans in 2007, a drop of more than a million from the heady days of the sellout streak. Without a drastic change in their market, they cannot expect to draw more.
''Our economy's starting to get better, but how much and how quickly and how will that translate to attendance? We're not quite sure,'' Antonetti said. ''We'll always have to have an efficient payroll. For us to be successful, we will have to get more out of less.''
So far, they have done that, with just three players making more than $4 million this season: starter Fausto Carmona ($6.1 million), Sizemore ($7.5 million) and designated hitter Travis Hafner ($13 million). Those three, along with shortstop Asdrubal Cabrera and reliever Rafael Perez, are the only players from the 2007 playoff roster who remain on the team. Shin-Soo Choo, the skilled right fielder, played just six games in the majors that season.
''It's tough, because you're used to that group of guys from '03 to '08 pretty much, and a good majority of those guys are gone,'' Hafner said. ''It's a whole new wave, so you didn't really know what to expect. But you could start to see it in the second half last year. A lot of the young guys were starting to figure it out.''
With the youngest roster in the majors at the end of last season, the Indians went 35-39 in the second half, when their 3.89 earned run average ranked fourth in the league. Starter Justin Masterson and closer Chris Perez pitched especially well and have carried over their success.
But for the Indians to contend, Antonetti knew that Sizemore and Hafner would have to be healthy. Sizemore had left elbow surgery in 2009 and microfracture surgery on his left knee last year. Hafner spent parts of the last three seasons on the disabled list with right shoulder trouble.
Sizemore is the Indians' catalyst again, with a .282 average and 6 home runs in 18 games. But the threat of another knee injury looms over his every step. Manager Manny Acta cringed when Sizemore bruised his right knee on a slide last week.
''I have to, because that would be the only thing that is going to stop us from being competitive the rest of the way,'' Acta said. ''I don't think we can absorb those types of injuries, especially if it is more than one guy, because that's what happened last year. In order for us to stay the course, we need every one of these guys healthy and just about every one of them to play to their capabilities.''
That may be asking too much. But with the division-rival Minnesota Twins and Chicago White Sox already in deep holes, the Indians seem to be slowly convincing their fans. Local television ratings are up sharply, Shapiro said, and on Friday -- with fireworks and $1 hot dogs as a lure -- 33,774 fans showed up for a game against Seattle. Hafner won it with a home run in the bottom of the ninth.
Acta has told his team that the rebuilding is over and the time to win is now. Lots of managers talk that way, but the Indians have responded, largely because the best-case situations are playing out all over the roster.
That almost never happens to Cleveland teams, but the Indians are challenging the beliefs of fans conditioned to expect the worst. The team would love more support but is coping just fine without it.
''What we say is we have a good crowd in our dugout,'' Acta said, ''and we have a great, happy crowd in our clubhouse after we win.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Despite the Indians' 24-13 record, attendance at Progressive Field ranks last in the majors. Cleveland lost 190 games in the past two years but thought it had a chance to improve with a core of veterans like Grady Sizemore, far left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, TOP LEFT, AMY SANCETTA/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JARED WICKERHAM/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); ATHLETES (73%); RANKINGS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND INDIANS (94%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (82%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (55%) OHIO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011



502 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: Going Back on the Deal: Republicans are again willing to put the unemployed last

 BODY:
Last year, Republicans refused to renew unemployment benefits unless the high-end Bush-era tax cuts were preserved. After the White House agreed to keep the tax cuts through 2012, they agreed to extend federal jobless benefits through 2011. Now, they want to renege.
The House Ways and Means Committee, on a strict Republican vote, recently passed a bill to let states use federal jobless money for other purposes, including tax cuts for business. This is a very bad idea at a time when the national jobless rate is 9 percent, and higher than that in 22 states. The $31 billion in yet to be paid federal benefits is desperately needed. 
State unemployment benefits end after six months. Federal benefits, which average $293 a week, then kick in. In better times six months may be a reasonable period to expect a laid-off worker to find another job. But not these days. Right now, more than four million families depend on extended federal benefits to get by.
The bill would let states use the federal jobless money to pay debt that would otherwise have to be paid by raising business taxes. In particular, the bill could get businesses off the hook for increases that will be needed to repay $41 billion in federal loans that states took to cover shortfalls in their unemployment funds.
The tax increases would be largely automatic, because if a state does not pay back its loans within two years -- which states are hard pressed to do -- the federal government is required to recoup the money by raising federal unemployment taxes on employers in the state.
That leads to two important points. No one thinks it is a good idea to hit businesses with big tax increases when the economy is fragile. Nor is it necessary to stiff jobless workers to give businesses tax relief. Instead, Congress could delay and reduce the taxes until the economy is stronger, by forgiving loans for states that rebuild their funds -- a fix detailed in a Senate bill by Richard Durbin, Democrat of Illinois.
Republicans, however, aren't looking to restore the funds to long-term solvency; they want to cut taxes no matter what the cost. And their business constituents -- who have resisted paying unemployment taxes in good times as well as bad -- don't want to pay more taxes into the system, even after the economy has recovered.
That's where the House bill comes in. Its main proponent, Representative Dave Camp, the Ways and Means chairman, says that under the bill, states can keep paying full federal benefits. But he also says they need the ''flexibility'' to prevent ''job-killing tax hikes.''
Arkansas, Florida, Michigan and Missouri have passed their own laws this year that will cut business taxes by reducing the standard 26 weeks of state benefits, starting in 2012. Other states are also weighing cutbacks.
The Ways and Means bill has little chance of passing the Senate with the Democrats in charge. But it provides dangerous fuel to antitax efforts in the states. And it presages more fights to come in Washington.
Joblessness is not expected to fall much this year, so come 2012, federal benefits will need to be renewed. Republicans are sure to resist, even though the arguments for renewal are sound: the benefits bolster the economy by supporting consumption and they are a humane response to economic calamity. There are better ways to help the states and bolster business during tough times. Reducing unemployment benefits is the wrong choice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); FAMILY (68%)

PERSON: DAVE CAMP (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011



503 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include housing starts for April and industrial production and capacity utilization for April (Tuesday); and weekly jobless claims, existing home sales for April, the Philadelphia Fed manufacturing index for May, and leading economic indicators for April (Thursday). 
EARNINGS Companies reporting results will include Lowe's and J. C. Penney (Monday); Home Depot, Saks, TJX, Wal-Mart and Dell (Tuesday); B. J.'s Wholesale Club, Deere, Target, Hewlett-Packard and Limited Brands (Wednesday); and Sears and Gap (Thursday).
IN THE UNITED STATES Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, will speak at a conference in Washington about the government's role in innovation, research and development (Monday); Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner will speak about the economy, at the Harvard Club in New York (Tuesday); and the Senate Banking Committee will conduct a hearing about the state of the securitization markets and the Federal Reserve will issue minutes from its April interest-rate meeting (Wednesday).
IN EUROPE Finance ministers will meet in Brussels to discuss aid to Portugal and Greece (Monday and Tuesday); and a Russian court will begin considering the appeal of Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky's conviction on theft and money-laundering charges (Tuesday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); EXISTING HOME SALES (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (67%); SECURITIZATION (67%); MONEY LAUNDERING (64%); INTEREST RATES (52%)

COMPANY: BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (83%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (83%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (51%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); GREECE (74%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (66%); PORTUGAL (66%); BELGIUM (51%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011



504 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: The Wrong Reasons For Same-Sex Marriage

BYLINE: By JAYE CEE WHITEHEAD. 
Jaye Cee Whitehead, an assistant professor of sociology at Pacific University, is the author of the forthcoming book ''The Nuptial Deal: Same-Sex Marriage and Neo-Liberal Governance.''

 BODY:
Forest Grove, Ore.
IN a letter to the New York State Legislature last month, top business executives endorsed same-sex marriage on the ground that ''attracting talent is key to our state's economic future.'' The signers -- among them the banker Lloyd C. Blankfein, the financier Ronald O. Perelman, the real estate developer Jerry I. Speyer and the publisher Mortimer B. Zuckerman -- declared that legalizing gay unions would ''help maintain our competitive advantage in attracting the best and brightest people the world has to offer.''
The letter was only the latest example of a trend toward promoting marriage equality as a boon to businesses and state and local budgets. While these arguments are appealing at first glance, and may be politically effective in the short run, they ultimately hurt the broader struggle for gay and lesbian equality. 
On the surface, it's hard to disagree with the economic case for same-sex marriage. States and cities are, as the New York executives pointed out, competing to attract talent in a globally competitive labor market. The wedding industry benefits, of course, when more couples are allowed to marry. And marriage equality is associated with revenue gains from sales taxes and license fees. Backers of gay marriage speak openly of the gains from ''marriage tourism'' in states that have legalized same-sex marriage.
The amount of money involved is not pocket change: the Williams Institute on Sexual Orientation Law at the University of California, Los Angeles, puts the economic gain in Massachusetts alone at $111 million in the five years since same-sex marriage was legalized there. The bipartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that the legalization of same-sex marriage in all 50 states would yield $1 billion in annual revenue over a 10-year period.
Those making these economic arguments probably have the best of intentions. After all, why can't gays and lesbians have full equality, while also saving the state money and bolstering local economies? Aren't civil rights narratives consistent with the economic case for same-sex marriage? Shouldn't supporters use all possible arguments in the hopes that at least one will finally stick?
And yet supporting marriage on economic grounds dehumanizes same-sex couples by conflating civil rights with economic perks. Americans should be offended when the value of gays and lesbians is reduced to their buying power as consumers or their human and creative capital as workers.
Why can't same-sex couples have access to the same rights and protections as their straight neighbors simply because they are citizens? How would we respond if the right to interracial marriage were based on the prospects that these relationships made good business sense or added to the state budget? While economic arguments were certainly advanced during the struggle for African-American civil rights -- in the late 1950s, Atlanta's business-oriented mayor, William B. Hartsfield, promoted his city as being ''too busy to hate'' -- those rationales are not what we think about when we remember that struggle's highest ideals.
Worse yet, this narrative neglects the most economically vulnerable gay and lesbian couples and plays into the inaccurate stereotype of same-sex couples (particularly male couples) as being mostly well-educated and affluent.
For strategic purposes, proponents of same-sex marriage often point out -- if not in public rallies then in press releases, reports and legal briefs -- that legalizing same-sex marriage is likely to lead to a reduction in state spending on welfare programs.
Means-tested public assistance programs -- notably food stamps and Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, which supports low-income parents with dependent children -- take a spouse's income and assets into account in determining eligibility.
As the Williams Institute has noted in papers about the economic benefits of same-sex marriage, expanding marriage rights would send a substantial number of economically struggling couples over the eligibility thresholds, shifting the financial responsibility from the state to the couple without any actual improvement in the couple's economic well-being. One thing legal marriage does is obligate a couple to provide and care for each other, to ensure that they do not become the responsibility of the state. That isn't a bad thing if you can afford to do it, but many gay men and lesbians cannot.
Supporters of same-sex marriage ought to acknowledge that marriage is not just a natural expression of human intimacy or a declaration of personal commitment; it is a form of governance. The vast expansion of the government over the past century has embedded marriage into all areas where the state and the individual intersect, from tax obligations to disability benefits to health care decisions to family law. As with any other structure of governance in a democratic society, we ought to think about its participants as citizens rather than consumers.
So if you support same-sex marriage, do so not because it brings in tax revenue and tourism dollars and prevents people from becoming a burden on the state, but because you value gay men and lesbians as citizens who deserve equal access to the rights and responsibilities of marriage.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JORDAN AWAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (95%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (95%); MARRIAGE (95%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COHABITATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MARRIAGE LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); BUDGET FORECASTS (69%); SALES TAX (66%); RACE & RACISM (60%)

PERSON: RONALD PERELMAN (56%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011



505 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; DANCE REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: An Accomplished Premiere, Served Along With Other Flourishes

BYLINE: By ALASTAIR MACAULAY

 BODY:
The generous breadth of taste shown by New York Theater Ballet with its Signatures series is good for New York's whole dance scene. This weekend at the Florence Gould Hall it showed pieces by Frederick Ashton, Merce Cunningham and Antony Tudor -- three of the 20th century's supreme choreographers -- as well as a world premiere by the British choreographer Richard Alston. Larger than the excellence of any one work here, which is saying much, was the stylistic diversity of the program. I've been grateful for this company before; I've never admired it more than on this occasion.
The company has performed the four older works before -- Ashton's ''Capriol Suite'' (1930), Cunningham's ''Septet'' (1953), and Tudor's ''Jardin aux Lilas'' (1936) and Soiree Musicale'' (1938) -- but the great highlights of Friday's rich performance were nonetheless ''Septet'' and ''Jardin aux Lilas,'' both strikingly improved from their last showings by this company. The Alston premiere was accomplished, full of interesting detail and vastly superior to the new works at New York City Ballet this year. 
I don't get the point of its title, ''A Rugged Flourish,'' or its choice of music, Aaron Copland's Piano Variations. Still, I hope the company keeps it in repertory. Whereas I sat out City Ballet's new ''Seven Deadly Sins'' twice on Saturday, this will repay further viewing.
Mr. Alston is one of the most musically astute choreographers alive. In the 1990s I preferred what he made to Rameau music to Mark Morris's dances to the same composer, and what he made to Astor Piazzolla tangos to Paul Taylor's. When I don't appreciate his response to a piece of music, I've always found it rewarding to re-examine his choices.
His program note here says: ''Copland's 'Piano Variations' have a brave stony rigor, repeatedly ringing out in grand gesture. 'A Rugged Flourish' portrays a young hero's courage and determination -- strong enough to be alone, yet all the stronger for eventually accepting company.'' Mr. Alston shapes his charmingly quasi-narrative sequence with seeming effortlessness from this score's structure.
A faunlike boy (the softly riveting, adolescent-looking Steven Melendez), after dancing alone, meets six nymphs and has an extended dance duet with one (Rie Ogura), before allowing the six to dance together and then becoming one of their number in the finale. The costumes are by Sylvia Taalsohn Nolan; Mr. Melendez's look recalls the more heroic protagonist of Tudor's jungle-story ''Shadowplay'' (1967, to be revived next week by American Ballet Theater). But there are abrasive tensions in Copland's modernist harmonies that the choreography avoids.
In fact, the audience would probably enjoy ''A Rugged Flourish'' more if the recurrent harshness of Copland's writing -- played here by Mariko Miyazaki -- didn't seem to get in the way. But it also makes Mr. Alston look relatively polite, especially in the dances for the women, and more conventional than he actually is. (The women are on point. Mr. Alston, a modern-dance choreographer, has choreographed point work only a few times in the last 30 years. He does so here tactfully rather than tellingly.)
The finest dances are for Mr. Melendez, alone and with Ms. Ogura. The opening solo has really marvelous self-contradictions and explorations: Mr. Melendez faces one way and jumps the other or advances in a new direction while looking behind, and the mixture of impulsiveness and reflectiveness is compelling. The duet has a tension that is half competitive, half getting-to-know-you: warily, they present each other with dance material that keeps extending them as personalities.
The Theater Ballet program notes about Tudor encourage the audience to regard him as a psychological choreographer, which is the wrong way to prepare for ''Soiree Musicale'' and a relatively trite way to follow ''Jardin aux Lilas.'' The pure-dance ''Soiree,'' set to Rossini, is a bright study in different 19th-century dance styles. It seems to want to look more predictable and dated than it is; you have to home in on its dance details to find it rewarding, but its three male-female duets, its female trios and the changing structures of its larger ensembles all have memorable ingenuities.
There are novels, poems, plays, operas and modern-dance works that all penetrate further into the human psyche than does ''Jardin,'' whose psychological subtleties are unusual only by ballet standards. Even so, ''Jardin'' really is a masterpiece by the standards of any art. Its dramatic skill lies in its rapid and economical garden-party alternation of social decorousness and private revelation, and in the amazing, modernist restraint with which it sets those changes to the various colors of its score, Chausson's ''Poeme'' for violin and orchestra.
The structure is such that very often the dance shows how the characters are unable to open up, while the music shows what they are feeling. (And though the eyes stay true, the face says least of all.) This works because the body language, from Caroline's first conflicted, closed-arm gesture, is acute: a hundred deft strokes show us how divided these characters are.
Friday's ''Jardin'' -- better than the already good ones we saw from this company in 2008 -- was especially fine. Elena Zahlmann as Caroline and Ms. Ogura as An Episode in the Past of the Man Caroline Must Marry (I wish someone had persuaded Tudor to give them all names) were especially attuned to character, music and atmosphere. And the ballet has a doubled intensity on the Gould Hall's small stage (still larger than that of the Mercury Theater, where it had its premiere).
Friday's ''Septet,'' excellently led by Joshua Andino Nieto, was immeasurably improved from the company's performance three months before. There was far less acting overlay, a far fuller trust in Cunningham's choreography, and a rare sense of the musicality of these dances.
Both in the movement it sets to silence and in the motionless standstills and tableaus it sets to music, ''Septet'' often makes the independence of music and choreography obvious. But it is a far richer and stranger work when it shows you how attuned to Erik Satie's harmonies and rhythms it sometimes is. Way beyond occasional step-for-note fidelity, its gestures and groupings sometimes release movement into the air to match or underscore Satie's chords. There is a restraint here akin to Tudor's.
Modernist economy is also apparent in Ashton's earliest extant ballet, ''Capriol Suite.'' Beneath its mock-Elizabethan idioms, its cool charm and its bubbling inventiveness, the choreography places its faith in pure form. I know of no British company that has performed this work since Ashton's death in 1988. Here, as throughout this program, New York Theater Ballet does us great service.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: New York Theater Ballet: Steven Melendez and other members of the troupe performed the world premiere of Richard Alston's ''Rugged Flourish'' at Florence Gould Hall on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); BALLET (90%); DANCE (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); MUSIC (89%); THEATER (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (87%); ADOLESCENTS (69%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011



506 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Patience, Not Punishment, for Pakistan

BYLINE: By TALAT MASOOD. 
Talat Masood is a military analyst and a retired lieutenant general in the Pakistani Army.

 BODY:
Islamabad, Pakistan
THE revelation that Osama bin Laden was living less than a mile from Pakistan's national military academy has raised serious questions about the efficacy of Pakistan's military and intelligence services and brought into sharp focus the weakness of the Pakistani state.
There is now huge pressure from civil society and opposition parties to appoint a commission to investigate the raid on Bin Laden's compound in Abbottabad, and to take action against those responsible for the lapses that allowed American forces to enter Pakistani territory undetected. The ability of the armed forces to guard the border with Afghanistan and the civilian government's control over security matters have also been put into doubt. 
The volatile situation in Pakistan is matched by the understandable outrage of Americans that the world's most notorious terrorist lived unmolested for five years in a city teeming with Pakistani military officers. But any overreaction by Washington could endanger Pakistani democracy and further empower the military -- or even lead to an outright military takeover. For the United States, support for Pakistan's civilian, democratic government is the only way to assure regional peace, stability and prosperity.
Washington cannot separate its military relationship with Pakistan from its political relationship: America needs Pakistan's cooperation to permit the smooth withdrawal of the majority of American troops from Afghanistan before 2012, while the Obama administration must disentangle itself from the Afghan war to help ensure the president's re-election. And there can be no peace in Afghanistan without a modicum of Pakistani assistance.
For Pakistan, America's military and economic assistance is vital. Moreover, when Pakistan is facing enormous domestic difficulties, it can ill afford to antagonize America. Leaders in both countries must therefore step back from confrontation and find ways to repair the damage. Pushing Pakistan's political leadership to the brink is not an option.
Washington should avoid the temptation to pursue aggressive diplomacy, cut off economic assistance or intensify its Predator drone attacks. The most dangerous and counterproductive step would be for the United States Congress to drastically cut financing for Pakistan's military. Such a punitive measure might satisfy the American need to express displeasure, but it would have several unhappy consequences.
First, it would reinforce the already strong perception in Pakistan that the United States is an unreliable ally that acts unilaterally. Second, it would confirm the view that the United States favors India and reinforce the Pakistani security establishment's obsession with India as the enemy.
This, in turn, would renew Pakistan's determination to maintain a strong voice and presence in Afghanistan -- especially in Pashtun areas -- through the Afghan Taliban and other groups unfriendly to the United States, a strategy that many in the security establishment believe will help Pakistan avoid encirclement by India.
This would be a very dangerous route for Pakistan to pursue, as it would invite reprisals and increase Western and Indian distrust of Pakistan. It might also embolden India to go after the Pakistan-based terrorist group Lashkar-e-Taiba, which India and the United States say carried out the 2008 attacks in Mumbai, and lead the United States to strike at the Taliban-allied Haqqani network in Pakistan. Such moves would create a vicious cycle of recrimination that would result in Pakistan and the region becoming even more unstable and chaotic.
To be sure, Pakistan's India-centric policy is harmful and counterproductive. The present crisis provides an opportunity for the Pakistani military to give up this strategically misguided obsession. India should also use this window of opportunity to step forward and normalize relations with its neighbor, instead of gloating over Pakistan's misfortunes.
The killing of Bin Laden proves once and for all that the Pakistani military cannot look the other way as Afghan Taliban gather in Pakistan. Failing to act with full force against Islamist extremists at home is no longer an option. However, the United States needs to show greater understanding and patience while Pakistan undertakes this necessary strategic shift.
If America tries to punish rather than support Pakistan in this difficult hour, the Pakistani military, in a dangerous test of wills, might pursue a course of action based on emotion and hyped-up nationalism that will only weaken the joint effort to fight terrorism.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (78%); TALIBAN (78%); TERRORISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); POLITICS (76%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (56%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011



507 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Idea Rebounds: Automatic Cuts To Curb Deficits

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Among the highest-profile laws of recent decades was a failed one: the 1985 deficit-reduction statute called Gramm-Rudman-Hollings for its Senate sponsors. Intended to force a balanced budget, it spawned budget gimmicks and did little to cut deficits, provoking one of its authors, Senator Ernest F. Hollings, to say, ''I'm filing for divorce on grounds of infidelity and irreconcilable differences.''
Yet Democrats and Republicans are taking a second look at the idea behind the law: the threat of automatic steps to address the problem if elected officials cannot rein in deficits.
The goal of the continuing bipartisan negotiations is to combine some action-forcing budget process with specific, deep spending cuts, allowing a deal to raise the government's $14.3 trillion debt limit and avert a potential financial crisis. But the parties are far apart on the details. 
Nearly all Congressional Republicans want caps only on government spending, backed by the threat of across-the-board cuts if agreed-upon targets are exceeded. Mr. Obama, most Democrats and several bipartisan budget groups want annual caps on deficits, with both spending cuts and tax increases triggered if the caps are breached.
The history of previous efforts suggests that targets and triggers can be a mechanism for bipartisan compromise, but are no substitute for sustained political will.
The most prominent example, Gramm-Rudman-Hollings, was an act of desperation at a time of mounting deficits, partisan paralysis over solutions and a desire for political cover to raise the debt limit -- a time much like today, except debt projections are much larger and political divisions arguably wider. The act set declining annual deficit targets to reach a balanced budget in five years; if these targets were missed, across-the-board cuts loomed.
''With no disrespect to those three senators, it was a strange idea,'' Steve Bell, the Senate Republicans' top budget adviser when the act was passed, recalled for a 2006 history of the Senate Budget Committee.
''Fortunately,'' he said, ''Gramm-Rudman-Hollings was so contrary to the culture and the Constitution and whole flow of legislative history, the first thing we did was to ignore it.''
Actually, the politicians evaded it. Deficits exceeded targets every year, yet Congress and the administrations of President Ronald Reagan and the first President George Bush avoided meat-ax cuts by fudging the numbers and moving the deficit goal posts. By 1990, faced with an economic downturn and a deficit too big to finesse, Mr. Bush and Congressional leaders replaced the law with less radical but ultimately more effective budget limitations -- and nearly $500 billion in spending cuts and tax increases.
It raises the question: Why should that 1985 law be a guide now?
The answer, say advocates of the approach in both parties, is that for all its flaws, the act created a fiscal climate that forced compromises like the 1990 agreement. Its new budget limits -- caps on annual discretionary spending and pay-as-you-go rules requiring offsetting savings for new tax cuts or spending on entitlement programs like Medicare -- contributed, along with a surging economy, to balancing the budget by the late 1990s.
Members of both parties also say there is no realistic chance that President Obama and Republicans can agree by August -- when the Treasury says it will run out of ways to avoid defaulting on the government's debt obligations -- on specific cuts of trillions of dollars, as Republicans are demanding. So the fallback is to combine what cuts they can agree to with budget procedures to enforce additional future savings.
''You can't just do budget process reforms because that's just kicking the can to the next Congress and saying, 'Well, we promise to fix this later,' '' said Representative Paul D. Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican and House Budget Committee chairman. ''That's why we say you have to have real, material spending changes, which then are backed up by substantive process reforms.''
Even former opponents of Gramm-Rudman-Hollings are now open to an updated version. One is Mr. Obama's budget director, Jacob J. Lew. ''I'll be candid,'' Mr. Lew said. ''My own thinking on this area has evolved over the last 25 years.''
In 1985, as a senior adviser to Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill, Mr. Lew helped negotiate changes to make Gramm-Rudman-Hollings acceptable to Democrats -- for example, by exempting antipoverty programs from automatic cuts. In the 1990s, he was deputy director and then director of President Bill Clinton's White House budget office.
In hindsight, Mr. Lew said, ''I don't know that we ever would have been able to accomplish the deficit reduction that we did in 1990, 1993, 1997, without an environment that had been shaped by having that collection of enforcement mechanisms in place.''
Mr. Obama has called for a ''debt fail-safe'' trigger that would automatically cut spending and so-called tax expenditures -- the roughly $1 trillion a year in popular tax breaks for individuals and corporations -- if by 2014 the debt's growth has not been stabilized and if annual deficits are projected to be greater than 2.8 percent of the economy for the rest of the decade. (The deficit last year was 8.9 percent of gross domestic product.) Social Security, Medicare benefits and antipoverty programs would be exempt.
The president's bipartisan fiscal commission also proposed annual deficit targets backed by potential triggers of both spending cuts and tax increases. A bipartisan ''Gang of Six'' in the Senate is negotiating to write those recommendations into legislation. And several bipartisan nongovernment groups have recommended debt and deficit targets enforced by the threat of automatic spending cuts and tax increases.
Mr. Lew said that whether such proposals would work was beside the point. ''The real truth is nobody ever wants to find out,'' he said. ''The purpose of these mechanisms is to discipline those in the policy process to make decisions.''
But, he added, both spending cuts and tax increases have to be threatened -- so that both parties have an incentive to compromise and forestall automatic action.
Republicans disagree. ''Spending across the board is covered -- our spending, their spending,'' Mr. Ryan said.
The House Republicans' budget would cap annual discretionary spending. Also, like a separate proposal from Senators Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, and Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, it would limit federal spending to roughly 21 percent of the gross domestic product, the historical average of the past four decades. Mr. Obama told Senate Democrats last week that he would not accept such a cap.
The administration and most budget groups say a spending cap based on recent years ignores a demographic reality: the oldest of the roughly 77 million baby boomers turn 65 this year, starting a wave that will drive up costs for Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, while the ranks of taxpaying workers are shrinking. Because those programs are a large and growing part of the budget, they would face huge cuts to keep overall spending within the proposed cap.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary James A. Baker III and Rep. Thomas S. Foley in budget talks in 1987, two years into a deficit-cutting law. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN DURICKA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEBT CEILING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); POLITICS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011



508 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: America Held Hostage

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Six months ago President Obama faced a hostage situation. Republicans threatened to block an extension of middle-class tax cuts unless Mr. Obama gave in and extended tax cuts for the rich too. And the president essentially folded, giving the G.O.P. everything it wanted.
Now, predictably, the hostage-takers are back: blackmail worked well last December, so why not try it again? This time House Republicans say they will refuse to raise the debt ceiling -- a step that could inflict major economic damage -- unless Mr. Obama agrees to large spending cuts, even as they rule out any tax increase whatsoever. And the question becomes what, if anything, will get the president to say no. 
The debt ceiling itself is a strange feature of U.S. law: since Congress must vote to authorize spending and choose tax rates, why have a second vote on whether to allow the borrowing that these spending and taxation policies imply? In practice, however, legislators have historically been willing to raise the debt ceiling as necessary, so this quirk in our system hasn't mattered very much -- until now.
What has changed? The answer is the radicalization of the Republican Party. Normally, a party controlling neither the White House nor the Senate would acknowledge that it isn't in a position to impose its agenda on the nation. But the modern G.O.P. doesn't believe in following normal rules.
So what will happen if the ceiling isn't raised? It has become fashionable on the right to assert that it would be no big deal. On Saturday the editorial page of The Wall Street Journal ridiculed those worried about the consequences of hitting the ceiling as the ''Armageddon lobby.''
It's hard to know whether the ''what, us worry?'' types believe what they're saying, or whether they're just staking out a bargaining position. But in any case, they're almost surely wrong: seriously bad consequences will follow if the debt ceiling isn't raised.
For if we hit the debt ceiling, the government will be forced to stop paying roughly a third of its bills, because that's the share of spending currently financed by borrowing. So will it stop sending out Social Security checks? Will it stop paying doctors and hospitals that treat Medicare patients? Will it stop paying the contractors supplying fuel and munitions to our military? Or will it stop paying interest on the debt?
Don't say ''none of the above.'' As I've written before, the federal government is basically an insurance company with an army, so I've just described all the major components of federal spending. At least one, and probably several, of these components will face payment stoppages if federal borrowing is cut off.
And what would such payment stops do to the economy? Nothing good. Consumer spending would probably crash, as nervous seniors started wondering how to pay for rent and food. Businesses that depend on government purchases would slash payrolls and cancel investments.
Furthermore, markets might well panic, especially if interest payments are missed. And the consequences of undermining faith in U.S. debt might be especially severe because that debt plays a crucial role in many financial transactions.
So hitting the debt ceiling would be a very bad thing. Unfortunately, it may be unavoidable.
Why? Because this is a hostage situation. If the president and his allies operate on the principle that failure to raise the debt ceiling is an unthinkable outcome, to be avoided at all cost, then they have ceded all power to those willing to bring that outcome about. In effect, they will have ripped up the Constitution and given control over America's government to a party that only controls one house of Congress, but claims to be willing to bring down the economy unless it gets what it wants.
Now, there are good reasons to believe that the G.O.P. isn't nearly as willing to burn the house down as it claims. Business interests have made it clear that they're horrified at the prospect of hitting the debt ceiling. Even the virulently anti-Obama U.S. Chamber of Commerce has urged Congress to raise the ceiling ''as expeditiously as possible.'' And a confrontation over spending would only highlight the fact that Republicans won big last year largely by promising to protect Medicare, then promptly voted to dismantle the program.
But the president can't call the extortionists' bluff unless he's willing to confront them, and accept the associated risks.
According to Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, Mr. Obama has told Democrats not to draw any ''line in the sand'' in debt negotiations. Well, count me among those who find this strategy completely baffling. At some point -- and sooner rather than later -- the president has to draw a line. Otherwise, he might as well move out of the White House, and hand the keys over to the Tea Party.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSTAGE TAKING (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCREASES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); EXTORTION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); ARMIES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); MEDICARE (60%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011



509 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: A Requiem for Huckabee

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
Most candidates for the highest office in the land spend months, if not years, currying favor with the rich and powerful: glad-handing at fund-raising dinners, schmoozing in mansions, pressing the flesh in Aspen and Manhattan and Nob Hill.
Not so Mike Huckabee. He ran for president in 2008 with no money, no campaign infrastructure, no professional handlers or ad gurus or wardrobe consultants. (When I interviewed him in New Hampshire, he had just ironed his own suit.) His entire campaign -- which won him more delegates than Mitt Romney's lavishly financed operation -- consisted of showing up for any television program that would have him, and turning on the charm. 
It's no surprise, then, that Huckabee prefers his new life as a Fox News host to the dubious pleasures of another presidential run. But he'll be missed in the 2012 race, and not just because his absence promises to dramatically reduce the entertainment value of the Republican debates.
He'll be missed because he embodied a political persuasion that's common in American life but rare in America's political class. This worldview mixes cultural conservatism with economic populism: it's tax-sensitive without being stridently antigovernment, skeptical of Wall Street as well as Washington, and as concerned about immigration, family breakdown and public morals as it is about the debt ceiling.
This combination of views represents one of the plausible middle grounds in American politics. You can find it in the Republican Party, among the evangelicals and Catholics whose votes made the presidencies of Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush possible. You can find it among independent voters, particularly in what a recent Pew report calls the ''disaffected'' demographic, whose hostility to big government coexists with anxieties about corporate power and support for redistribution of wealth. And you find it in the Democratic Party as well -- from the dwindling ranks of pro-life Catholic liberals to the ''Bill Cosby conservatives'' in the African-American middle class.
But few of these people are members of the American elite. Call someone a ''centrist'' or a ''moderate'' in the salons of Washington or New York, and everyone will assume that you're talking about a deficit hawk who supports open borders, or a Republican C.E.O. who writes checks to Planned Parenthood. Among our leadership class, centrism invariably means some combination of big-business conservatism and social progressivism -- the politics of pro-choice Republicans, hedge fund Democrats and Michael Bloomberg independents.
This is why Huckabee's 2008 campaign seemed to come out of nowhere. The press was baffled, and often delighted: here was a right-wing politician who talked easily about health care and admitted that the Bush economy had been lousy for working families. (There would have been less delight, of course, if he had actually won the Republican nomination: then all the talk would have turned to his supposedly ''scary'' views on issues like abortion.)
Republican elites, meanwhile, were appalled. They called him a class warrior and a pro-life liberal, and regularly insinuated that he had jumped above his station. (Lisa Schiffren, a former speechwriter for Dan Quayle, memorably suggested that Huckabee go back to ''that bait shop on the lake. ... You'll be surrounded by nice neighbors, real Christians, and you can be the smartest guy in the room.'')
Never mind that Huckabee's record as governor of Arkansas was at least as conservative as Mitt Romney's in Massachusetts. Somehow, the Romney of 2008 just seemed like a more plausible Republican nominee. Like many American political entrepreneurs, from George W. Bush to John Edwards to Rush Limbaugh, he was a well-connected rich guy posing as a populist. Whereas Huckabee really was a populist -- a graduate of Ouachita Baptist University rather than Harvard Business School, and a man with no interest in the rhetorical correctness and interest-group ring-kissing that both parties expect of their nominees.
Of course, his 2008 campaign also reflected populism's inevitable flaw: a desperate lack of policy substance. Huckabee won votes by talking about issues that the other Republican candidates wouldn't touch, but his actual agenda was a grab bag of gimmicks and crank ideas. And nothing in his subsequent television career has indicated a strong interest in putting policy meat on the bones of his worldview.
Still, his candidacy illuminated a path that more politicians should take. We live in an age of economic stagnation and social crisis, and the two are intimately connected. The collapse of the two-parent family and unfettered low-skilled immigration have made America more stratified. The Wall Street-Washington axis really did drive the country into a ditch.
For all his faults, Mike Huckabee knew how to talk about these problems. Now we need leaders with ideas for what do about them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); FUNDRAISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); RELIGION (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (66%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (66%); IMMIGRATION (65%); DEBT CEILING (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (64%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (62%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: MICHAEL HUCKABEE (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011



510 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: With Europe in Crisis, Fragile Time for I.M.F.

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.; Graham Bowley and Dan Bilefsky contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
LONDON -- It's hard to imagine a worse time for the International Monetary Fund to be without a forceful European leader.
Sinking under a mountain of debt, Greece is on the verge of requesting more help from the European Union and the international fund. Ireland's economic recovery from its banking crisis remains a distant prospect at best. And once an international aid deal is concluded for Portugal, the question shifts to whether Spain's much larger and increasingly stagnant economy may need a financial lifeline.
Indeed, the most bitter twist for Dominique Strauss-Kahn is that his personal crisis comes at a time that the I.M.F.'s influence globally is at a many-decades peak, especially within Europe, his own stomping ground.
During his tenure as managing director of the fund, Mr. Strauss-Kahn is widely credited with expanding the fund's resources after the financial crisis, improving its governance and essentially restoring its relevance by replacing orthodoxy with pragmatism. 
Before being taken into custody in New York on Saturday afternoon on charges related to sexual assault, Mr. Strauss-Kahn had boarded a flight to Europe to meet the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, to discuss in detail how Europe and the I.M.F. would respond to the deteriorating economic situation in Greece.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn was known to be a powerful voice arguing that continuing austerity measures in Greece would only make the situation worse. The Greek economy has shrunk by as much as 4 percent this year from a year ago, after the international community laid out guidelines for reducing its debt, raising taxes and reining in spending.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn's view contrasts with a harder line in northern Europe, where voters are opposed to another bailout package for Greece. Northern politicians, as a result, have pushed to exact a higher price from Greece if more money were extended.
''The Greek government is concerned that a headless I.M.F. translates into a diminished bargaining power for the Greek side,'' said Yanis Varoufakis, an economics professor and blogger at the University of Athens. ''Despite the official unity between the I.M.F. and the E.U. on the Greek crisis, Dominique Strauss-Kahn has consistently showed greater sympathy for the plight of George Papandreou and a better grasp than the E.U. of the importance of not putting more pressure on Greece than the country can bear.''
Trailing after Hungary, Latvia and Iceland, Greece was one of the first euro zone countries to seek outside financial aid after the worldwide financial crisis. It proved to be a grand stage on which Mr. Strauss-Kahn would prove that the fund, after more than a decade of not doing much, could reinvent itself as a powerful global actor.
Former I.M.F. employees described Mr. Strauss-Kahn as a micromanager on European matters, especially on the three European bailouts that he oversaw -- Ireland, Greece and Portugal.
Greek newspapers have reported recently that for many months before the Greek bailout last May, Prime Minister George Papandreou sought the counsel of Mr. Strauss-Kahn.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn, a French economist who was often cited for his deft political touch, also worked closely with Europe's top leaders on the rescue plans, leveraging his relationships with leaders like Jean-Claude Trichet at the European Central Bank and France's president, Nicolas Sarkozy -- despite their political differences.
In restoring stature to the I.M.F., Mr. Strauss-Kahn managed to push his personal missteps into the background, including a 2008 affair with a co-worker at the fund, after which he acknowledged he had shown bad judgment. His success also allowed people to look past some inherent contradictions: a French socialist dedicated to solving global economic problems even as he favored the high life of elegant homes in Paris and Washington, fancy cars and lavish hotel rooms.
Simon Johnson, the former chief economist of the I.M.F., who is now a professor at M.I.T., said Mr. Strauss-Kahn had been revived by the global financial crisis. ''The Europeans had been late in waking up to the economic problems,'' he said. ''But he coaxed rather than bullied them into action. In so doing, he used the crisis as an opportunity to rehabilitate the I.M.F.'s reputation, and put it front and center in a way that it had not been before.''
Indeed, finding someone with the kind of boardroom muscle in Europe that Mr. Strauss-Kahn displayed will be challenging.
Traditionally, the top I.M.F. spot has gone to a European, with the second position to an American. Now, in light of the increasing wealth and influence of emerging nations, pressure is building for the next leader to come from a country like China, Turkey or Brazil.
Potential candidates who have drawn some early attention include Kemal Dervis, a senior official at the Brookings Institute and a former Turkish finance minister, and Mohamed A. El-Erian, the chief executive office of Pimco, the bond fund giant.
As of early Sunday, officials at the I.M.F. were still digesting recent events. One board member who spoke on the condition of anonymity said that it was too early to consider who might succeed Mr. Strauss-Kahn, if he resigned.
For the time being, the fund's business will be run as it always is when the managing director is out of town -- by its No. 2 executive, John Lipsky, a former American Treasury executive and former banker at JPMorgan who has been overseeing the logistics of the Greek program. From his position as a first deputy managing director, Mr. Lipsky was named acting head of the fund on Sunday. He had said that he would be leaving the fund this summer, meaning two top spots might need to be filled.
Officials at the fund, European leaders and the Greek government all said on Sunday that Mr. Strauss-Kahn's arrest would have little effect on the continuing talks regarding Greece and Portugal. On the face of it, that may well be true.
For the last week, the I.M.F.'s senior executive in charge of Greece, Poul M. Thomsen, has been meeting with government officials in Greece, along with executives from the European Union and the European Central Bank. The fund has also had two technical experts within the Greek finance ministry for the last year, so there will be no shortage of expertise to decide how much to lend Greece, what conditions to impose and whether some changes should be made in the country's debt as well.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn's sway as a European power-broker of consequence -- a power that was backed by longstanding personal relationships -- would be hard to replicate. While emerging countries like China, Indonesia and Brazil are economically healthy, the real need for the fund is for someone with an ability to navigate the minefield of egos and politics in Europe at the moment.
''This is unprecedented,'' said Mr. Johnson, the former I.M.F. economist. ''We have very little to guide us. For the short term, the staff can handle it, but beyond a week and with regard to the fund's broader strategy, everything becomes more murky.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Lipsky, top, is leading the fund. Kemal Dervis is considered a candidate to take over. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NELSON CHING/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 ADRIANO MACHADO/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); EURO (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); BANK FAILURES (71%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (66%); SEX OFFENSES (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (90%); GEORGE PAPANDREOU (79%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (96%); GREECE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); ICELAND (79%); SPAIN (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); PORTUGAL (73%); LATVIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011



511 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
BEFORE THEY CAN REBUILD,
TOWNS MUST SURVIVE
Two months after a huge earthquake and tsunami, devastated coastal communities like Otsuchi, Japan remain far from recovery and, with many working-age people moving away, they face the prospect that they could simply wither away and, ultimately, disappear. PAGE A4
CHANGING U.S.-AFGHAN TIES
Osama bin Laden's death will allow ''a new phase'' in the United States' relationship with Afghanistan, one that could include reductions in troops and spending, Senator John Kerry said while visiting Kabul. PAGE A4 
PROTESTING ONLINE RULES
Thousands of people in more than 30 cities around Turkey took to the streets protested new regulations on internet activities by a government agency. Protesters in Taksim Square in Istanbul called the action, which regulators say is intended to protect minors, an assault on personal freedom and liberty. PAGE A5
FALLOUT FROM SYRIAN VIOLENCE
Border violence on the Golan Heights on the border between Israel and Syria -- Israeli soldiers killed four people as hundreds stormed the border -- could augur a new phase of the uprising against President Bashar al-Assad of Syria and the web of international relations he is navigating. PAGE A8
U.A.E. HIRES DEFENSE GROUP
The United Arab Emirates confirmed that it had hired a company run by Erik Prince, the billionaire founder of Blackwater Worldwide, to provide ''operational, planning and training support'' to its military. PAGE A4
National
GINGRICH FAULTS G.O.P. PLAN
TO OVERHAUL MEDICAID
Days after formally announcing his candidacy for the 2012 Republican presidential nomination, Newt Gingrich sharply criticized a plan by House Republicans that would drastically overhaul Medicare, the federal health care program for retirees. PAGE A11
RHODE ISLAND'S EXAMPLE
With Republicans pushing to rein in Medicaid costs, an experiment in Rhode Island is drawing the attention of some conservatives who say it has led to substantial savings without reducing care for the state's poorest patients. But an examination of Rhode Island's experience shows it has not yielded the kinds of savings its supporters claim. PAGE A10
PARTISAN FIGHT OVER DEBT
Congress has raised the federal debt limit 78 times since 1960 in what has become a familiar Washington ritual. This spring, the debt limit has become a burden that President Obama, Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio and the Senate Democratic leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, must share, even as they joust over the terms. John Harwood, The Caucus. PAGE A11
New York
IMMIGRANTS OFTEN CHEATED
BY JOB AGENCIES
In some of the poorest neighborhoods across the city, immigrants hoping to land jobs through employment agencies have routinely been cheated out of money. They are often charged hundreds of dollars in fees, promised jobs that do not exist, and sent to abusive working environments. PAGE A16
Obituaries
MURRAY HANDWERKER, 89
He transformed his father's Brooklyn hot dog business, Nathan's Famous, into a celebrated national fast-food chain. PAGE B11
WALLACE MCCAIN, 81
He helped create the world's largest frozen French fry maker, and lost one of Canada's most public family feuds before building another major food company specializing in cold cuts and sliced bread. PAGE B11
Business
DATA NETWORKS THREATEN
PROFIT FOR WIRELESS PROVIDERS
In the not-so-distant future, analysts and industry executives say, all mobile services, including text messages and voice and video calls, will travel over data networks -- forcing wireless carriers to adapt. Services like Skype can cut into the carriers' revenues because they offer easy ways to make phone calls, videoconference and send messages free over the Internet, encroaching on the ways that phone companies have made money. PAGE B1
MICROBLOGS THRIVE IN CHINA
As microblogs have a powerful effect on public discourse and advertisers start to create campaigns aimed at microblog users, other Chinese Internet companies are scrambling to develop and promote their own microblog services. What is striking is that microblog services are booming despite a recent Chinese government crackdown on social networking sites in the wake of democracy demonstrations in North Africa and the Middle East. PAGE B3
GOOGLE'S EUROPEAN PITCH
Google is investing in a campaign to expand across Europe as it confronts legal, regulatory and political challenges on issues including privacy, copyright disputes, antitrust actions and taxation. The company is spending hundreds of millions of euros to try to demonstrate that it is a responsible corporate citizen and a valuable contributor to the local economy, not the willful opportunist it is often portrayed as in France. PAGE B3
OPTIMISM ON TV ADS
Broadcasters have a widespread belief that they will, for the second year in a row, be able to charge a good deal more for commercial time during their shows for the coming season than they were the year before. PAGE B1
ANCHOR SEES RISK IN BOOK
Few national television news anchors or hosts have publicly acknowledged being gay. CNN's Don Lemon has not made a secret of his sexual orientation in his work life, but he acknowledged that going public in his new book about his career carried certain risks. PAGE B8
HOW DRUDGE STAYED ON TOP
Using data from the Nielsen Company to examine the top 21 news sites on the Web, the report suggests that the Drudge Report, once thought of as a hothouse flower of the Lewinsky scandal, is now more powerful in driving news than the half-billion folks on Facebook. PAGE B1
Arts
RENOVATIONS THAT SEEK
TO PUT FILM OUT FRONT
The Film Society of Lincoln Center is set to open its new $41 million film center to the public on June 17. The new film center aims to catch the eye with 90 feet of glass frontage imprinted with the names of more than 1,000 films that have been shown at the society, an LED ticker displaying movies and movie times and a box office that extends onto the sidewalk like a prow. PAGE C1
LITTLE CONSENSUS AT CANNES
There has been little consensus by Day 4 of the Cannes Film Festival -- no movie has yet been universally loved, loathed or violently debated -- but the critics have staked out their positions and fired up their thumbs. Manohla Dargis, Critic's Notebook. PAGE C1
Sports
DECADES AFTER RACE,
A HARSH REALITY FOR TRACK
The announcement that the Millrose Games are leaving Madison Square Garden after 97 years to relocate uptown to the 168th Street armory came almost exactly 40 years after an event that placed track and field, however briefly, front and center in the consciousness of the American public. PAGE D5
SECRECY AROUND ESPN BOOK
''Those Guys Have All the Fun: Inside the World of ESPN,'' a 770-page oral history of ESPN, is being treated by its publisher as potential sports-world dynamite, which is being cautious about who gets to see its contents before its release. PAGE D5
METS' UNLIKELY HERO
Justin Turner, a recent call-up who has played only 36 major league games over parts of three seasons, assumed the role of superstar after he hit a two-run double and a three-run homer, the first homer of his career, leading the Mets to a 7-4 victory over the Houston Astros at Minute Maid Park. PAGE D2
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A21
ROSS DOUTHAT PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TSUNAMIS (90%); DEBT CEILING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (87%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); IMMIGRATION (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MEDICAID (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (75%); CAUCUSES (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (75%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (75%); MEDICARE (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICS (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); NATIONAL DEBT (65%); HEALTH CARE (63%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: ACADEMI LLC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561612 SECURITY GUARDS & PATROL SERVICES (83%); NAICS561611 INVESTIGATION SERVICES (83%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (74%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (56%); HARRY REID (55%); NEWT GINGRICH (55%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (71%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SYRIA (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); TURKEY (92%); ISRAEL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011



512 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Frugality Is a Virtue, But Politics Rule The Debt-Limit Fight

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - The president needed an increase in the federal debt limit. His partisan adversary, a powerful Ohio congressman, wanted something in return: deep spending cuts.
The president was Richard M. Nixon, the congressman was Charles A. Vanik and the year was 1970. Mr. Vanik, a Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee, did not win his $6 billion in spending cuts (equivalent to $34 billion today).
But Congress raised the debt limit anyway - as it has 78 times since 1960 in what has become a familiar Washington ritual. This spring, the debt limit has become a burden that President Obama, Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio and the Senate Democratic leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, must share, even as they joust over the terms. 
Leaders in both parties loathe the action as the ultimate thankless obligation. It collides directly with the oft-ignored American instinct that ''frugality is an enriching virtue,'' in the words of Benjamin Franklin.
''No one wants to vote to increase the debt limit,'' said Donald Marron, a former economic adviser to President George W. Bush who now runs the Tax Policy Center. But neither does any leader in Congress dispute that ''the cap has to go up.''
That history explains why financial markets have shrugged off the drama now building around the debt limit. When Mr. Boehner warned last week that ''there will be no debt-limit increase'' without deep spending cuts, his audience at the New York Economic Club responded with polite applause and no apparent alarm.
As politicians with governing responsibility, Mr. Obama, Mr. Boehner and Mr. Reid must amass legislative majorities for an increase by August to preclude government default, according to the Treasury Department. That effort also includes, Mr. Marron noted, ''jockeying to see who wins the right to vote 'no.' ''
A Tempting Target
Congress assigned itself the debt-ceiling chore when it first limited federal borrowing authority in 1917, after the United States entered World War I under President Woodrow Wilson.
It turned into a reliable instrument of partisan and ideological combat. And because persistent government deficits required it to rise regularly, the debt limit turned, by the late 1960s, into a favored vehicle that lawmakers could use to pursue other goals.
Many have focused on budget restraint, like with the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings law in the 1980s, which its sponsors pushed during a debt-limit fight. Today's negotiations over long-term deficit reduction in tandem with the debt-limit legislation in many ways mirror that effort.
Democrats and Republicans over the years have used debt-limit fights to try to freeze nuclear weapons, ban school busing and allow school prayer, according to a 1993 study by Linda Kowalcky and Lance LeLoup, political scientists at the University of Missouri. In the early 1980s, Senator Howard Baker, a Tennessee Republican who was then the majority leader, attracted 1,400 proposals when he threw a debt-limit bill open to amendments on other issues.
Members of both parties eventually abandoned all of them. But the target the debt limit provides has turned legislative leaders and presidents alike into supplicants on the issue, as Mr. Obama is now.
''Dear Howard,'' President Ronald Reagan wrote to Mr. Baker on Nov. 16, 1983, warning that failure to raise the debt limit could cause ''incalculable damage,'' including the ''denigration of the full faith and credit of the United States.''
The limit went up later that month - one of 18 times during Reagan's tenure.
Haunting Obama
Mr. Obama's own 2006 Senate vote against raising the debt limit punctuates how it has become among the most nakedly partisan issues on Capitol Hill. As a Democrat in a Congress controlled by Republicans, serving under a Republican president, Mr. Obama cast what he now acknowledges was a ''political vote.''
Most lawmakers in both parties have done precisely the same thing - for decades. Debt-limit votes partly reflect a lawmaker's stance on fiscal policy, but more than that, they display their willingness to accept the risk of a ''yes'' vote out of fealty to presidents and legislative leaders of their own parties.
''I do not see any reason,'' Representative Barber Conable, Republican of New York, said in a 1979 debate cited in the political scientists' study, ''why the minority should be required to let those majority members who are from marginal districts have the benefit of voting against this bill politically, which you would have us deny to ourselves.''
Thus in the last debt-limit vote under President Jimmy Carter, a Democrat, all 154 Republicans voted ''no.'' The next year, with Reagan occupying the Oval Office, Republicans voted 150-36 in favor of an increase.
Turning the tables, House Democrats voted unanimously against raising the debt ceiling in 2004, with Mr. Bush in the Oval Office and Republicans controlling the House. In 2006, so did Mr. Obama and all other Senate Democrats.
In effect, responsibility for raising the debt limit represents ''a tax on the political majority,'' Mr. Marron said. ''It's the cost of being in charge.''
Mr. Boehner began preparing his members to pay that levy soon after the election, when he cautioned that they had to act as ''adults'' on the debt limit. That is why even prominent liberals like Andrew Stern, the former labor leader who served on the president's deficit reduction commission last year, express confidence that the speaker's spending-cut demands will not block a debt-limit deal with Mr. Reid and Mr. Obama.
''I think it does get done,'' he said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In 1970, President Richard M. Nixon negotiated with an Ohio congressman about the debt limit. Today, President Obama is in talks with another House leader from Ohio. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS
 BOB PEARSON/E.P.A.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); TAX LAW (71%); RELIGION (70%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); WORLD WAR I (66%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (64%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (64%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (61%); SCIENCE NEWS (61%); RELIGION IN SCHOOLS (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); CHURCH & STATE (50%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (88%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011



513 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Obama and Immigration Reform

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''In Border City Talk, Obama Urges G.O.P. to Help Overhaul Immigration Law'' (news article, May 11):
Many of the reports of President Obama's recent speech on immigration in El Paso have suggested that the president's focus on immigration is an attempt to pacify Hispanic voters.
No doubt, the issue of immigration is of utmost importance for many Hispanics, but as the president said, it is also a crucial issue for all Americans because economic growth depends upon a rational immigration system. 
Indeed, a recent Pew Research Center report found that fully 72 percent of the American public, including a majority of Republicans, support the principles of comprehensive immigration reform as advocated by President Obama in his speech on Tuesday and by President George W. Bush before him. Most Americans, of all political ideologies, ethnicities and religious traditions, realize that neither mass deportation nor amnesty is a good solution to our present predicament and that comprehensive immigration reform is the only reasonable solution.
MATTHEW SOERENS Glen Ellyn, Ill., May 11, 2011
The writer is co-author of ''Welcoming the Stranger: Justice, Compassion and Truth in the Immigration Debate.''
To the Editor:
President Obama's statements about how his administration is carrying out immigration enforcement may well undermine the urgency he is hoping to generate to reform the system.
The president said that ''we are focusing our limited resources on violent offenders and people convicted of crimes.'' The reality on the ground, however, is that the majority of people being deported are people with no criminal record at all.
Later in his speech, the president said: ''I don't believe the United States of America should be in the business of separating families. That's not right. That's not who we are.'' I agree, but the president should therefore acknowledge clearly that this is exactly what his administration is doing.
If more people understood that our government is very much in the business of separating families, they would feel greater urgency to reform the system.
JORGE L. BARON Seattle, May 11, 2011
The writer is executive director of the Northwest Immigrant Rights Project.
To the Editor:
Re ''President Obama at the Border'' (editorial, May 11):
You were right to praise President Obama's call for immigration reform, but your criticism of the administration's expansion of the Secure Communities program is a wrongheaded attack on a valuable law enforcement program.
Secure Communities represents an important way for the federal government to focus its immigration enforcement resources on people whose illegal presence most represents a risk to public safety. This is a common-sense approach to take when the government has limited resources and is still obligated to carry out the laws passed by Congress.
The program has helped lead to important and unambiguous successes in public safety. In the last fiscal year, more than half of those removed from the country -- around 195,000 -- were convicted criminals. Despite the hesitancy in the few quarters that you mention, Secure Communities continues to be embraced by our nation's police, who have rapidly expanded the number of jurisdictions that have adopted the program.
JON ADLER National President, Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association Washington, May 11, 2011
To the Editor:
It's not surprising that Secure Communities, a deeply flawed federal deportation program from the start, is finally facing growing criticism from states and immigrant rights advocates: it simply doesn't work (''States Resisting Program Central to Obama's Immigration Strategy,'' news article, May 6).
As Cardozo School of Law found, the vast majority of people deported because of Secure Communities -- 79 percent -- were either noncriminals or picked up for low-level offenses, like traffic offenses. Rather than focusing on dangerous criminals, gang members or smugglers, Secure Communities is mostly deporting hard-working people.
By targeting the wrong immigrants and pushing them into the shadows, and distracting police from their real job, Secure Communities is a misuse of taxpayer dollars. Furthermore, rather than making us safer, Secure Communities undermines the trust-based police-community relationship our neighborhoods need.
This is just another example of the failed Bush-era enforcement-only measures that do nothing to secure our borders while worsening conditions across the country.
Rounding up the people who clean offices, take care of the sick, baby-sit and do a host of important jobs does not make us any more secure or help our struggling economy, and it runs counter to everything we aspire to as a community.
HECTOR FIGUEROA New York, May 11, 2011
The writer is secretary-treasurer, Local 32BJ S.E.I.U., representing building service workers.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY FELIPE LUBLINER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); VIOLENT CRIME (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); RELIGION (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011



514 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Chief's Arrest Upends Political Scene in a Shocked France

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and KATRIN BENNHOLD; Reporting was contributed by Elaine Sciolino, Liz Alderman, Maia de la Baume and Scott Sayare.

 BODY:
PARIS -- The arrest in New York of one of France's leading global figures and a possible next president, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, on charges of attempted rape produced an earthquake of shock, outrage, disbelief and embarrassment throughout France on Sunday.
The country woke up to the tawdry allegations that Mr. Strauss-Kahn, 62, a leading Socialist and the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, had waylaid and tried to rape a maid in a $3,000-a-night suite at a New York hotel, and the reverberations were immediate.
The government of President Nicolas Sarkozy responded cautiously, saying the presumption of innocence must be maintained and the courts must be allowed to do their work, while the leader of the Socialist Party, Martine Aubry, admitted that she was ''totally stupefied'' by the charges against the man who had been considered most likely to bring her party back to power in next year's presidential elections by defeating Mr. Sarkozy.
Some, including Mr. Strauss-Kahn's wife, the American-born French television journalist Anne Sinclair, expressed disbelief in the charges and faith in her husband's innocence. His lawyer has said he would plead not guilty. Others talked darkly of a possible ''setup'' of Mr. Sarkozy's most prominent rival. 
But there was a general recognition that whatever the outcome -- unless the police have made a horrible error -- the arrest had exploded Mr. Strauss-Kahn's political hopes, upended France's political landscape and abruptly ended his career at the I.M.F., which is in the middle of crucial negotiations about loans for distressed nations of the European Union. The I.M.F. quickly appointed an acting managing director on Sunday to replace Mr. Strauss-Kahn, who spent hours in a Manhattan holding cell awaiting arraignment, which was postponed until Monday after additional evidence was sought including DNA samples from his fingernails and skin.
As the impact of Mr. Strauss-Kahn's predicament hit home, others, including some in the news media, began to reveal accounts, long suppressed or anonymous, of what they called Mr. Strauss-Kahn's previously predatory behavior toward women and his aggressive sexual pursuit of them, from students and journalists to subordinates.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn's extramarital affairs have long been considered an open secret. But the legal charges against him -- which include attempted rape, an illegal sexual act and an effort to sequester another person against her will -- are of an entirely different magnitude, even in France and elsewhere in continental Europe, where voters have generally shown more lenience than Americans toward the sexual behavior of prominent politicians, most notably the sexual escapades of Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy.
''If the accusations turn out to be true -- and even if they are proved false -- this is a degrading thing,'' said Francois Bayrou, a centrist who ran for the presidency in 2007.
The left-leaning newspaper Liberation ran the headline ''Shock. Political Bomb. Thunderclap.''
The deputy editor, Vincent Giret, wrote sadly on Sunday that Mr. Strauss-Kahn seemed ''best-armed to respond to the disarray of the French, exhausted by the crisis and disoriented by the crazy reign of Sarkozy.'' But Mr. Strauss-Kahn apparently believed he could win the presidency ''without fighting,'' Mr. Giret said, and so did not follow a path of ''renunciation and abnegation.''
The entire French political world used superlatives to comment on Mr. Strauss-Kahn's arrest. Dominique Paille, the former spokesman of Mr. Sarkozy's party, called it a ''historical moment, in negative terms, in French politics.'' Other Sarkozy supporters were predictably harsh.
The government spokesman, Francois Baroin, said that Mr. Strauss-Kahn should be afforded ''the presumption of innocence.'' The government, he told France 2 television, would ''not go further in commentary about this matter'' and called for ''extraordinary prudence'' in discussing the case.
Ms. Aubry, the Socialist leader, asked people to withhold judgment and called for an emergency meeting of the party leadership on Monday. ''I call upon everyone to wait for the reality of the facts, to respect the presumption of innocence, and then, upon everyone, to keep the necessary decency,'' she said. Segolene Royal, the last Socialist presidential candidate, who lost to Mr. Sarkozy, talked about ''deeply distressing news'' but said that anyone is innocent until proven otherwise.
Some of Mr. Strauss-Kahn's allies said that he must have been the victim of a setup. Christine Boutin, head of the small Christian Democratic Party, told French television: ''That he could be taken in like that seems astounding, so he must have been trapped.''
Gerard Grunberg, a respected political scientist who studies the left, said that Mr. Strauss-Kahn's political future and career at the I.M.F. were over. ''It's a political earthquake and a catastrophe for France,'' he said in an interview. The charges have disrupted ''the future presidential election in France, and the entire political spectrum,'' making it more likely that a centrist candidate would run.
The absence of Mr. Strauss-Kahn would help the candidacy of Francois Hollande, a former party leader, as Socialist nominee, and it might encourage Ms. Aubry herself to run; Ms. Royal had already announced her intention to seek the nomination.
If Mr. Strauss-Kahn does not run, that will not necessarily help the far-right National Front and its leader, Marine Le Pen, but it is likely to make Mr. Sarkozy more plausible as an incumbent. ''It's going to help him to hope a little more,'' Mr. Grunberg said.
As for suggestions that Mr. Strauss-Kahn might have fallen into an elaborate sting, Mr. Grunberg was dismissive. ''If all this was a trap, he wouldn't have fled in a panic,'' he said.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn was criticized by the I.M.F after an affair with a subordinate, an economist, Piroska Nagy, in 2008. But an investigation found that he had not abused his position, the affair was consensual, and he publicly expressed regret. Ms. Sinclair, his third wife, was supportive. ''These things happen in the life of any couple,'' she wrote.
On Sunday, Ms. Sinclair issued a statement saying: ''I don't believe for a second the accusations leveled against my husband.''
Despite the rumors, one of the few journalists to point to them when Mr. Strauss-Kahn was appointed to the fund was Jean Quatremer, the Brussels correspondent for Liberation. He wrote on his blog that Mr. Strauss-Kahn's ''only real problem'' was his ''rapport'' with women. ''Too insistent, he often comes close to harassment,'' he wrote. ''A weakness known by the media, but which nobody mentions. (We are in France.) The I.M.F., however, is an international institution with Anglo-Saxon morals. A misplaced gesture, a too specific allusion, and it will be a media scramble.''
Mr. Strauss-Kahn behaved aggressively toward a young female journalist and novelist, Tristane Banon, in 2002, according to the newspaper Le Parisien and other Web sites, and corroborated by Ms. Banon herself in a 2007 television interview on Paris Premiere, a cable channel. At the time, she said that a French politician -- whom she later said was Mr. Strauss-Kahn -- had tried to rape her in an empty apartment in Paris after she had contacted him for a book she was writing.
''He wanted to grab my hand while answering my questions, and then my arm. We ended up fighting, since I said clearly, 'No, no.' We fought on the floor, I kicked him, he undid my bra, he tried to remove my jeans,'' she said.
Afterward, she said that she had contacted a well-known lawyer who already had ''a pile of files on Mr. Strauss-Kahn,'' but that she never filed a complaint. ''I didn't dare; I didn't wish to be the girl who had a problem with a politician for the rest of my life,'' she said.
Her mother, Anne Mansouret, a Socialist, later confronted Mr. Strauss-Kahn and asked why he had attacked her daughter, she told Rue 89, an online newspaper. According to her, he responded: ''I don't know what happened, I went crazy.''
At the Institut d'Etudes Politiques de Paris, known as Sciences Po, where he was an economics professor, ''he had a real power of attraction,'' said a former student in an interview. ''There were always hordes of female students waiting to talk to him at the end of his classes,'' she said, speaking on the condition of anonymity.
Well before Mr. Strauss-Kahn's arrest there had been reports that Mr. Sarkozy was gathering information to discredit Mr. Strauss-Kahn should he run for president. In a famous incident, reported by the news magazine Le Point, Mr. Strauss-Kahn confronted Mr. Sarkozy in the men's room at the Group of 20 summit meeting in Pittsburgh in September 2009, saying: ''I've had more than enough of this continued gossip about my private life and about supposed dossiers and photos that could come out against me. I know that this is coming from the Elysee. Tell your guys to stop or I'll go to the courts.''
Online Correction: May 15, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misspelled the given name of Stephane Rozes as Stephae.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dominique Strauss-Kahn was led from a police station Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG RUTTLE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1)
The lawyers Benjamin Brafman, left, and William Taylor made a statement on Sunday on behalf of Dominique Strauss-Kahn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KIRBY SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mr. Strauss-Kahn and his wife, Anne Sinclair, in August 2006. Ms. Sinclair expressed disbelief in the rape charges. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HORACIO VILLALOBOS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
Mr. Strauss-Kahn's absence would help the candidacy of Francois Hollande, top, and might encourage Martine Aubry, middle, to run. Segolene Royal, above, will also run. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JACQUES DEMARTHON/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES
YIORGOS KARAHALIS/REUTERS
 STEPHANE MAHE/REUTERS) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); POLITICS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); LAWYERS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); DNA (62%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (94%); FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (79%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (78%); SEGOLENE ROYAL (58%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); VICTORIA, SEYCHELLES (56%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011



515 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2369 words

HEADLINE: Sex, the Koch Brothers and Academic Freedom

BYLINE: STANLEY FISH


HIGHLIGHT: When academic freedom is an issue, and when it isn't.

 BODY:
More than a few of the respondents to my column about CUNY's on-again-off-again-on-again awarding of an honorary degree to Tony Kushner say that while I may be correct about the "technical" definition of academic freedom, I miss the larger point. That's because there isn't one. A board of trustees with every right to make a decision made it in a way that (a) ran counter to its previous practice (b) permitted a single member (Jeffrey Wiesenfeld) to derail a process that had seemed to be on a familiar track and (c) put CUNY right in the middle of the briar patch called the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Maladroit, unfortunate and (as I said) dumb. But that's it. It was just the board screwing up with the predictable public-relations disaster as the result. No one's freedom was curtailed, no one's speech was censored, no harm, except to the board's reputation and by extension to CUNY's, was done. Because Wiesenfeld's objections were to Kushner's views on Israel, the uproar that followed the board's decision to table his nomination quickly escalated into a shouting match between those who said that Israel was engaged in ethnic cleansing and those who replied that people who said that were anti-Semites and/or self-hating Jews. The responses to my column followed the same pattern. No one wanted to hear the topic of academic freedom "parsed" (a word used in derision by one reader, as if parsing something, trying to get it right, were a crime). MSP Shiloh complained that "Dr. Fish misdirects our attention to the arcane and off topic of the academic honorary degree process," when "[t]his was, and is, about Israel's persecution" of Palestinians. Other respondents were just as sure that "this was, and is, about" a university honoring a "self-righteous hack" (mcghostoflectricity) who spews "current day Palestinian propaganda" (neilrobert). Both sides are wrong, not about Israel - I did not and will not come down on that issue - but about what "this" is about. It's about institutional ineptness, a relatively small matter that nevertheless can teach us some lessons. The back-and-forth trading of ritual insults is hardly edifying, but a proper understanding of what academic freedom is might be. 
My general point is that academic freedom is a useful notion only if it is narrowly defined. More things escape its ambit than fall within it. Lawyerjonathan declares that "the overriding purpose of the university is supposed to be free inquiry and the pursuit of truth." Not quite. The pursuit of truth is what is done in classrooms and laboratories and that is why those activities should be protected from outside interference. Truth cannot be pursued if constraints in the form of political or ideological preferences block the search for it. Other activities not in the pursuit-of-truth business merit no such protection because there is no specifically academic value to their being allowed to occur without constraint. Mike Munk recalls that when he was a student in the '50s, the president of his college vetoed a speaker his group had wanted to invite. He was (and remains) "outraged that our 'academic freedom' to hear and debate ideas on campus was violated." It's good that he puts academic freedom in quotes because there is no freedom to hear outside speakers; it's a nice extra, it's good entertainment, and I'm all for it, but its curtailment violates nothing. 
Sasha cooke thinks that the John Jay faculty's "right to free expression" was violated because its choice of Kushner was originally disallowed. In the same vein, Joe Gould wonders "what effect the Board's decision on the academic freedom of the faculty who chose Mr. Kushner for the award." None at all. The faculty expressed itself freely and its free expression was then trumped by the free expression of a body authorized to do so, and in the future the faculty is free to express itself again. Warren insists that "academic freedom surely extends to the process of receiving academic honors," but that is to hang too much on a word. True, the honor Kushner was at first denied and now may receive was awarded in a setting presided over by the academy, but it was not an academic honor in the sense of being awarded for academic reasons or according to academic criteria that could be the basis of an academic freedom claim; the reasons for giving honorary degrees are varied and the criteria (such as they are) are all over the place.
Jstafura asks, "If the awarding of honorary degrees isn't academic then what is it?" As I indicated in the previous column, it's a tool for fund raising, recruiting, payback for political help, publicity and, occasionally, for rewarding academic or artistic achievement. A corollary question is, if the awarding of honorary degrees is not implicated in academic freedom issues, then what is? 
Two examples recently in the news provide an answer. In early March, Professor John Michael Bailey of Northwestern University invited a couple to perform a live sex-act in front of the students in his course on Human Sexuality. (Attendance at the presentation was optional.) The man brought the (naked) woman to orgasm with the help of a device with a name this newspaper will not print. 
Bailey defended himself by saying that such "events" provide "useful examples and extensions of concepts students learn about in traditional academic ways." This statement amounts to acknowledging that the live-sex demonstration was outside the boundaries of academic practice (Bailey might respond that he was stretching the envelope) and it's an easy step to conclude that it is not protected by academic freedom, by an instructor's freedom to bring into a class whatever materials he thinks appropriate so long as they serve a legitimate pedagogical end. Bailey claims the live-sex demo did serve such an end because it was an extension of one of his course's main themes, the diversity of sexual experience. 
But Northwestern president Morton Schapiro, after a brief period when the dean and a university spokesman waffled and murmured "academic freedom," declared, "I simply do not believe this was appropriate or in keeping with Northwestern University's academic mission." That, of course, is the question: was the sexual exhibition staged for a valid educational purpose or was it, as researcher Robin Mathy believes, a case of confusing "voyeuristic excitement" with education. If it was the first, academic freedom kicks in; if it was the second, it doesn't, and that's because academic freedom is for academic activities and not for everything that happens to go on in a university building.
The controversy continues. The Northwestern administration has assigned Bailey other courses and said that this course will not be offered in the coming academic year while the curriculum is being reviewed. Now academic freedom complaints are coming from those who say that Bailey's rights were violated by his not having been allowed to teach a particular course and that the course's rights were violated by its not being given in a particular year. The administration's action, said Simon LeVay, author of the course's text book, amounted to "disrespecting the subject" of human sexuality. Emory Professor Kim Wallen, co-author with LeVay of a letter to President Schapiro, announced, "There's great concern about academic freedom." 
It's hard to see why. No one owns a course; no course has a right to be given; and no subject has a claim on university time and money. LeVay and Wallen are behaving as so many in the Kushner controversy did; they are crying academic freedom whenever a university does something they don't like, and by doing so, they cheapen the concept.
In contrast, the invocation of academic freedom is certainly to the point in my second example, the controversy at Florida State University over a gift given to the economics department in 2008 by a foundation funded by the ultra-conservative Koch brothers. The gift was given to support the creation of two new appointments. There's nothing untoward about that; it is routine for corporations and foundations to underwrite or augment the funding of faculty appointments. (At Johns Hopkins I held a Kenan chair the support for which came from an oil fortune.) Sometimes the funds are provided without specifying a subject or a discipline; sometimes the gift is more targeted. This gift was very targeted; it was to support the teaching of free-market, anti-regulatory economics. 
That's where the trouble begins. Is the foundation funding the study of free-market economics - a perfectly respectable academic subject - or is it mandating that free-market economics be promoted in the classroom? Is it a gift intended to stimulate research the conclusions of which can not be known in advance, or is it a gift intended to amplify a conclusion - free-market economics is good; regulation is bad - the philanthropists have already reached and want to broadcast using Florida State University as a megaphone? If it is the second, Florida State University courts the danger the doctrine of academic freedom was designed to avoid (see the 1915 statement of the then fledgling AAUP), the danger of allowing an outside constituency to take control of academic proceedings and dictate academic decisions.
Evidence that a line may have been crossed is provided by the contract between the foundation and the university. Foundation representatives serve on the search committee and have the power to veto candidates. If the selected professors fail to perform in a manner the foundations approves, it will withdraw its support. This of course means that the foundation in effect monitors and assesses academic performance. On the other side, the faculty has the decisive voice in making appointments; it need not accept the candidates the foundation favors, and in fact the two who were finally hired were not on the foundation's preferred list, although we can presume the foundation did not find them objectionable.
In a telephone conversation with me, FSU President Eric J. Barron (who was not in office when this all went down) explained that while the foundation's representatives could have exercised a veto, it never came to that. He added that if the new faculty members ever failed to meet the foundation's expectations and its gift was withdrawn, the university would step in and provide the necessary support. He acknowledged that these arrangements might make people nervous - some administration members expressed reservations in 2008 and changes were made to the contract - but he insisted that, despite press characterizations of the situation, FSU had not sold its soul. (I am not a stranger to such situations. My first assignment as a dean at the University of Illinois at Chicago was to finalize the details of a gift given to the university for the funding of a Catholic Studies program. Many of the issues that arose at FSU arose at UIC and were negotiated.)
Barron makes a reasonable case but it is undercut by the words of David Rasmussen, dean of the College of Social Science, a signator to the contract, at FSU. Rasmussen is either tone deaf or disingenuous. His account of the affair is anodyne: "The Economics department says here are the two people we really like, goes to the advisory board and says, will you approve these two people, and they say yes." 
In short, what's the problem? The problem is that the sequence unfolds under the threat of an adverse action by a non-academic entity. Rasmussen says he is "sure some faculty will say this is not exactly consistent with their view of academic freedom." The implication is that "their view" is a minority view or an over-fastidious view, but the view that university hiring and firing procedures shouldn't dance to the tune of an external constituency is absolutely mainstream and is the core of what academic freedom stands for. 
Rasmussen's most egregious comments concern another matter. BB&T, the bank holding company, funds an ethics course on the condition that Ayn Rand's "Atlas Shrugged" be required reading. (That might constitute cruel and unusual punishment.) The reasoning, offered by BB&T representative John Allison, is that "most universities are dominated by liberal professors." (I have argued elsewhere that a scholar's political views and his or her disciplinary views are independent variables.) Rasmussen thinks this is just fine. "If somebody says, 'We're willing to help support your students and faculty by giving you money, but we'd like you to read this book,' that doesn't strike me as a big sin." What would be a big sin, he continues, "is saying that certain ideas cannot be discussed." No, the sin is to insist that a certain idea be discussed whether or not it has made its academic way because a few disappointed outsiders are willing to spend big bucks to get it inside. If, in the judgment of an instructor, "Atlas Shrugged" will contribute to a student's understanding of a course's subject, there is every reason to assign it. But if assigning "Atlas Shrugged" is the price for the receiving of monies and the university pays that price, it has indeed sold its soul. 
The Northwestern and FSU examples help us to understand when academic freedom issues legitimately arise. They arise when the university either allows its professors to appropriate the classroom for non-academic purposes, as some think John Michael Bailey did, or allows itself to become the wholly owned subsidiary of another enterprise, as FSU may have done. 
There are of course other contexts in which academic freedom is at stake, but the awarding of an honoray degree to Tony Kushner or anyone else isn't one of them. You needn't take my word for it. Give yourself the pleasure of reading two learned but entirely accessible books - Matthew Finkin's and Robert Post's "For the Common Good: Principles of American Academic Freedom" (2009) and Rodney Smolla's "The Constitution Goes to College" (2011).

        
A Matter of Degrees
        
The Kushner Flap: Much Ado About Nothing
        
Ideas and Theory: The Political Difference
        
When Math Makes Sense (To Everyone)
        
College Costs, the Sequel

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC FREEDOM (94%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (75%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); JEWS & JUDAISM (69%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (69%); CENSORSHIP (67%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (53%) Academic Freedom; Ayn Rand; CUNY; florida state university; northwestern university; Reader Comments; the koch brothers; Tony Kushner; Kushner, Tony; Colleges and Universities; Stanley Fish

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: Kushner, Tony

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (69%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



516 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The 6th Floor)

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Nate Silver, Guest Ethicist

BYLINE: ARIEL KAMINER


HIGHLIGHT: Not long ago, the magazine published an article about how to avoid paying full price for air travel. Several readers wrote in to say the proposed method amounted to lying, and asked what I thought about the ethics of such an approach.

 BODY:
Not long ago, the magazine published an article about how to avoid paying full price for air travel. Several readers wrote in to say the proposed method amounted to lying, and asked what I thought about the ethics of such an approach.
I write the magazine's Ethicist column, but Nate Silver wrote the article that ruffled so many readers' feathers, so I put the question directly to him. 
Is it unethical to deceive an airline? Do passengers have an obligation to use their tickets in the way it they were intended to? Or is all fair when it comes to price wars? 
Here is his response: 
Let me start by saying that I've never actually taken advantage of this "trick" myself. It's rarely worth the headache when you're flying out of New York, which is served by all the major carriers as well as by JetBlue, Virgin America and Southwest. If a passenger can't find a decent airfare in New York -- without bending the airlines' rules -- he's usually not looking hard enough. 
Other cities, however, offer the passenger much less choice. And this, I think, is where the ethical debate turns.
There is unambiguous evidence -- both from my my own studies on this topic and from those conducted by academics and industry experts -- that airlines charge passengers a significant premium when they dominate a route or an airport. When another airline like Southwest begins to fly a route that they hadn't flown before, fares on all carriers drop significnatly. Of course, this is all perfectly in line with economic theory.
These "hidden-city" ticketing opportunties arise, with few exceptions, because the airline is charging the passenger a premium to fly a route over which they exercise monopoly power. By booking a ticket into a more competitive market instead -- but one which happens to have a layover in the hub city -- the passenger can substitute a competitive fare for a non-competitive one. 
When a consumer is disadvantaged by monopoly pricing, I think there ought to be a strong presumption -- legally and morally -- that he or she is entitled to recourse. In theory, a citizen might have some alternative means of recourse in that he could choose to vote for elected officials who would pledge to ensure that the free market is functioning properly. There's no doubt that much progress has been made in this area since the airline deregulation efforts of the 1970s and 1980s; the rise in airfares has been slow relative to the rate of inflation. At the same time, the major carriers have a lot of lobbying power, and they receive taxpayer subsidies of various kinds. And questions about which airlines fly which routes often turn on decisions made by local airport authorities, who are rarely elected to their positions. 
Some people are nevertheless of the view that breaking the airlines' ticketing rules -- more technically, violating their Contract of Carriage -- is intrinsically unethical. Even at websites like FlyerTalk.com, where savvy travelers trade tips on how to maximize their frequent flier mileage (sometimes by flying ridiculous routes), this is a controversial practice.
Sidestepping the larger argument about when and whether it is ever ethical to breach a contract, the Contract of Carriage is not typical. Unlike most contracts, it is not subject to any negotiation; the passenger clicks a button and -- particularly when the carrier is the only one flying a route -- has more or less no choice but to accept the rules as the airline dictates them. These are what are known as "adhesion contracts" and they have less legal force -- and arguably, also, less ethical force.
When the passenger elects to book a hidden-city fare, it is tantamount to negotiating or renegotiating that contract, something he did not have the opportunity to do originally. The passenger is proposing that he'll abide by all the terms of the Contract of Carriage but one -- he won't promise not to disembark at the layover airport. The airline still has the final say: it can choose whether to accept the new deal or to refuse his business.
One can argue that the passenger has a duty to expressly inform the airlines of his intentions. (Perhaps, when booking the ticket online, he could notate in the "special requests" field that he does not agree to abide by the relevant provision of the Contract of Carriage.) Given the circumstances under which these opportunities arise, however -- the airline is exploiting both its monopoly pricing power and its asymmetrical power to negotiate the contract -- I would argue that the passenger is on solid ethical footing provided that he does not mislead the airline if and when confronted about his strategy.
Readers: What do you think?

        
Meet the New Ethicist

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ETHICS (92%); AIRLINES (91%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); AIR FARES (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); LOBBYING (76%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); AIR SERVICE (74%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (73%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); INFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (73%); AIRPORT OPERATION (69%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (67%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (65%) Nate Silver; The Ethicist

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



517 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; culture

LENGTH: 2806 words

HEADLINE: Beyond the Melting Pot

BYLINE: PANKAJ MISHRA


HIGHLIGHT: Part Chinatown, part Bollywood, cosmopolitan Kuala Lumpur is a blueprint for a new Asia.

 BODY:
One evening last fall I was walking through Chinatown in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, when, suddenly, in the midst of Cantonese restaurants, shops selling knockoff designer bags and food stalls hawking exotic-looking meats, I came across the wholly unexpected sight of a Hindu temple with a voluptuous gate tower: a riot of gilded idols and precious stones and wafts of thick incense.
I walked on, under a freeway, past a pretty North Indian-style mosque, and, abruptly, the narrow vertical signs and single-column ideograms of Chinese shops gave way to something intensely familiar: I was in a South Indian market town, all gaudy silk and glittering jewelry shops.
Bollywood music blared out of speakers at Saravanaa Bhavan, the restaurant where I sat, savoring bisibelabath, a deliciously spicy South Indian concoction of lentils and rice. The pavement was hectic with flower and garland sellers - the kind of sweet-smelling chaos that lines the approaches to Hindu temples in India. But the waiters were glued to the TV screen, which showed a horse race in Hong Kong.
The contrasts made me think of the word "Indochine," which the French used to refer to the tracts of land separating Asia's two major countries. But the term began to mean something different to me in Kuala Lumpur - KL, as it is commonly known - a city that lies between two of the world's oldest civilizations. It spoke of Asia's own attempt at cosmopolitanism, at finding ways of living with cultural diversity in a profoundly interconnected world. People in almost every country now face that challenge. But sitting that evening in Brickfields, KL's Little India, I began to think that this very young city in a very old part of the world might be uniquely positioned to meet it.
Malaysia attracted Asian merchants and Arab adventurers long before the Europeans arrived to trade in the 16th century and before workers from China and India came in the 19th century to plant rubber and mine tin. A few hours south of Kuala Lumpur, the famous city of Malacca still speaks of its Dutch, Portuguese and British past. To the east of the Malay peninsula lies the island of Run, which the British officially ceded to the Dutch in 1667 in exchange for an island in the New World that was then called New Amsterdam. But the sense of being embedded in history, which never leaves you in India or China, vanishes in Kuala Lumpur.
Built pell-mell, the city lies thinly on the ground, radiating out from a small historical downtown and business district into hilly suburbs. There is something Los Angeles-like about its snaky freeways and bad public transportation. The promiscuity of its architectural styles is very L.A., too. It's not what one expects in a major Asian city, which either wears a patina of its premodern past (Delhi, Beijing) or carries the clear impress of its founders (Mumbai, Hong Kong).
One afternoon I stood in the middle of KL's old colonial quarter, now renamed Merdeka (Independence) Square, where the country's first prime minister declared liberation from British rule in 1957. To the west was the Royal Selangor Club, whose mock Tudor facade would have been at home in the English county of Suffolk. St. Mary's Cathedral, on another side, reminded me of the Anglican churches that cast a melancholy shade over English cemeteries in the hill stations of India. But the strangest structure of all faced me across the square: the Sultan Abdul Samad Building, whose profusion of onion domes, cupolas, colonnades and arches made it seem like a Moorish fantasy gone crazy.
The capital of an oil-rich Muslim country, KL is full of the solemn emblems of modernity: skyscrapers, five-star hotels with vast atria, and imposing shopping malls. (At some point, I stopped marveling at the patient queues outside a new Uniqlo store.) Indeed, you could suspect that this is a tropical Dubai, another glamorous mirage in the middle of nowhere.
Certainly, Penang, to the north, has classier architecture; Singapore, the British-built city-state south of the Malay peninsula, can boast of a more orderly cosmopolitanism; and Hong Kong has always made more money. But while those places have lost their Johnny-come-lately airs, Kuala Lumpur retains its charming frontier-town raffishness. The countryside, the landscape of thick river and dense forest that is commemorated in the fiction of Joseph Conrad and Somerset Maugham, still feels close. Just a few minutes from downtown, you can drive through stretches of fine parklands with massive rain trees.
And it remains a city of immigrants: the population is more than one third Chinese, contains a sizable group of Indians and has an underclass of laborers from Java, Sumatra, Bangladesh and Nepal. Unlike their counterparts in Hong Kong or Singapore, immigrants here don't cower out of sight while the rich splurge at Hermes. In fact, they give the city its particular vitality.
I found it moving to walk among the temples and tiny shop houses of Chinatown, a reminder of the melancholy lives of its Cantonese, Swatow, Hakka and Hokkien settlers. Here were their earliest attempts at a sense of community and spiritual solace.
KL was also notorious for its Chinese triads, and at Old China Cafe, amid the pulley lights, feng shui mirrors, marble tabletops and bentwood chairs from the 1930s, you can imagine the top-hatted gangsters suavely plotting a shipment or even an assassination. In today's Chinatown, meanwhile, the hawking of fake Rolexes and Burberry bags is perhaps the most brazen illegality. Still, in the narrow buildings with dungeonlike rooms above open storefronts, you can sense the vulnerability and desperate diversions - the gambling and prostitution - of lonely immigrants far from their homes in Southern China.
The Indians, who remain relatively impoverished, live even closer to their past. One evening I went to a celebration for Deepavali, the Hindu festival of lights. Here in this vast hall packed with Indians impassively watching a young couple on stage belt out popular Tamil songs, there was an overpowering fragrance of perfumed oils and sandalwood incense. The men were dressed in white dhotis, or unstitched cloth wrapped at the waist, and the women, often with kohled eyes, wore jasmine garlands interwoven into oiled hair and diamond and gold studs in their noses and ears. Their saris were magenta, pink and green.
On another evening, I had dinner with the Malaysian writer Amir Muhammad in Little India, whose canteens serve some of the spiciest food east of Venice. As we sat drinking the milky sweet tea called teh tarik (pulled tea), a large, traditionally dressed Tamil family arrived. Their mood was festively gluttonous, and the staff duly responded. One group of waiters unfurled large banana leaves on the tables, sprinkling them with water; others arrived with serving bowls and then proceeded to set down steaming curries, daubing bright patterns on the leaves with as much assured fluency as an artist engaged in action painting. The scene could have been from Madras circa 1950.
But the identity that Kuala Lumpur tries to project most forcefully is Malay and modern.
Government policy of affirmative action favors bumiputra - literally, "sons of the soil" - in education, business, state employment and even the arts. Parties are divided along racial and ethnic lines. "Malaysia," Muhammad told me, "is one of the most racially conscious societies in the world." (This can have a certain dark humor. A line from "Atomic Jaya," a satirical play from 1998 by Huzir Sulaiman, one of KL's highly respected writers, goes: "The Chinese do the work, the Malays take the credit, and the Indians get the blame.")
Unlike the Chinese and the Indians, ethnic Malays were traditionally a people of the countryside, and a semirural settlement stands right next to Kuala Lumpur's Golden Triangle business district, immune to the boom in property prices around it. The squat houses, some on stilts, are of weathered timber and tin. The straight lanes between the houses are lined with frangipani, bougainvillea, coconut and date palms, and banana trees thick with fruit.
Food stalls here sell some of the best street food in Kuala Lumpur: curries and grilled fish, fried pancakes, satay and, most important, the national dish, nasi lemak: rice, peanuts, cucumber, anchovies and sambal in coconut cream. In the nearby bazaar you can find Malay shops specializing in batik, songkok (headgear for men), prayer mats and robes. You can also come across Malay medicine men selling herbal concoctions that can apparently cure all ailments. If this sounds faintly heretical, there is a big mosque nearby to assert the faith.
The impressively maintained National Museum most vividly embodies the Malay quest for a usable and dignified past. More than the exhibits themselves, I found intriguing the groups of formally dressed Malays in high-collared shirts, silver-threaded sarongs worn like kilts over their trousers; they looked eager to be instructed in their nation's history.
Nothing, however, is more eloquent with aspiration than the Petronas Towers, until 2004 the tallest buildings in the world. Their minaret-like shape is a defiant Islamic claim upon the modern world and an assertion of Malaysia's place in the comity of nations.
I wasn't surprised to learn that KL's paternity is now disputed. Historically attested wisdom had the founder as the Chinese Yap Ah Loy, the largest landowner in the mid-19th century. But the nationalist Malays like to think it was the Malay aristocrat Raja Abdullah, and so Yap Ah Loy's name has been virtually excised from textbooks.
But such sectarianism does a disservice to Kuala Lumpur, which contains the cultures of Asia and the West in startling new juxtapositions. Consider, for instance, its old railway station, another Moorish extravaganza, partly obscured by a freeway and painted a dazzling white. The curves and planes of its pavilions and archways are still blindingly clear. It is as though Gaudi had been let loose in Kuala Lumpur.
And whatever the intentions of the Malay nationalists, the shiny new buildings speak less of Malay identity than of a city where people know how to be rich, and learn how to spend money. Visiting the city in the 1930s, the French writer Jean Cocteau complained of "an atmosphere of over-rapid luxury, a glut of gold." It still exists, nowhere more garishly than in the malls near the Petronas Towers, each vying to be more elegant than the rest, where white-robed Arabs, reluctant to travel to Western countries, stand checking their BlackBerrys while their wives, covered head to toe in black, shop for lingerie.
Freeways lead out of the rotting city core to the suburbs in the hills, where big S.U.V.'s hide behind foliage rich with jasmines and jacaranda. Here live the millionaire businessmen and the diplomats in burglar-alarmed homes with sprinklers swishing away and Filipino maids in the kitchen. Here are the smart cafes and restaurants where you can find practically every major cuisine respectably represented.
At dinner one evening in the elegant suburb of Damansara Heights, the city's lights ablaze below us, guests argued passionately about Malaysia's frustratingly racial politics and small-minded politicians, who, they say, keep the country from realizing its full potential. Our host, Karim Raslan, one of the shrewdest pundits on Southeast Asia, cited it as one of the reasons why he spends half of his time working and living in Indonesia.
It was left to me, an outsider, to point out that Malaysia was a country still relatively untouched by the many violent conflicts of class, caste, ethnicity and region that make the rise of India and China less self-evident than it looks. Malaysia is a middle-income country with a small population (28 million). There are no cruel disparities between rich and poor here; KL has none of the utter destitution that blights the downtowns of Indian cities. Though flawed and rowdy, Malaysia's democracy is preferable to the nanny authoritarian state of neighboring Singapore, and it has lately thrown up some promising young politicians.
The most famous of them - the American-educated Nurul Izzah Anwar, known as the "Reformist Princess" - represents the posh KL suburb of Bangsar in the Malaysian Parliament. She told me that a young generation of globalized politicians and activists long to move beyond the petty concerns of their elders to a post-racial future. This political enlightenment will obviously take time. For now, KL's thinkers and writers forge their own, somewhat lonely paths in a materialist city that is not hospitable to activities other than making - and spending - money.
The visual arts are more connected to a rapidly growing economy, and they're experiencing a mini-boom here. The clean white spaces of Bangsar's Valentine Willie Fine Art Gallery express a confidence that I first came across in Hong Kong's galleries, just before Chinese art rose to international prominence. Its director of programs, Eva McGovern, who left a job at the Serpentine Gallery in London to work in KL, told me that the region around Malaysia - Indonesia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand - was being knit together very fast, helped by low-cost airlines that flew to small cities and towns not only in China but across the vast Indonesian archipelago (much of which shares the Malay language with Malaysia). Artists can be discovered and exhibit their work in a way that was nearly impossible before, she said.
It's true that KL won't become famous overnight for its culture - even if, like Abu Dhabi and Qatar, it frantically buys up a lot of it. For now, this remains a city of modest pleasures, of malls and night markets. Indeed, its most resonant message to the world is to eat well and variously.
Then again, KL is still something of an experiment in urban living. Looking out of my hotel window on my last evening in Malaysia, when rain and mist veiled the tall, silvery buildings and the thickly forested hills behind them, I could imagine the land to be as empty and untenanted as its first explorers may have found it. The illusion disappeared as I walked through the old entertainment hub at Bukit Bintang. Now colorfully seedy with backpacker hostels, massage parlors and malls, it crackled with all the languages I can recognize, and more: Bahasa Indonesia, Filipino, Urdu, Bengali, Arabic and Persian, as well as English spoken with a variety of accents, from the broad Australian to the singsong Sri Lankan and the lovely Malay lilt. I left Kuala Lampur convinced that here in the heart of the new Asia, the city is working out a way of being reflexively cosmopolitan, truly Indochine.
ESSENTIALS | KUALA LUMPUR
HOTELSMandarin Oriental Kuala Lumpur City Centre; 011-60-3-2179-8818; doubles from about $185. Ritz-Carlton 168, Jalan Imbi; 011-60-3-2142-8000; doubles from $185. The Westin 199, Jalan Bukit Bintang; 011-60-3-2731-8333, doubles from $120.
RESTAURANTS AND BARSCilantro Upscale French-Japanese fusion. MiCasa All Suite Hotel, 368-B, Jalan Tun Razak; 011-60-3-2179-8082. Delicious Casual organic cafe. Bangsar Village II ; 011-60-3-2287-1554. Kampachi Sushi and other rarefied Japanese dishes. Equatorial Hotel, Jalan Sultan Ismail; 011-60-3-2161-7777. Li Yen Fancy Chinese. 168 Jalan Imbi; 011-60-3-2141-8000. Saravana Bhavan Vegetarian southern Indian. 52 Jalan Maarof, Bangsar; 011-60-3- 2287-1228. No Black Tie A great club for live music. 17 Jalan Mesui; 011-60-3-2142-3737.
SHOPSFor local shopping, don't miss Petaling Street in Chinatown, the covered Central Market (with charming handicrafts), Little India for street vendors selling fresh flowers, and Kinokuniya at the KLCC Mall (with perhaps the best bookstore in Asia. Valentine Willie Fine in Bangsar is a stylish little gallery indicative of KL's growing art scene (1st Floor, 17 Jalan Telawi 3, Bangsar Baru, 011-60-3-2284-2348).SIGHTS AND ARCHITECTUREBukit Bintang is the Times Square - though not quite - of Kuala Lampur, with small eateries, foot-massage parlors and big malls. The signage alone is worth a trip. To experience Kuala Lampur's amazingly wide range of architecture, head to KLCC Park (a stellar view of the Petronas Towers); Merdeka Square (a surreal view of enclosing tall buildings, with practically every style from high colonial to Islamic modernist represented); the Jamek Mosque (a Moghul-style mosque built by a British architect); the Moorish-style Old Railway Station; Maybank Building (a fascinating instance of modern Islamic architecture); the Maha Mariamman Temple in Chinatown (one of KL's oldest Hindu temples); and Chan See Shu Yuen, a Chinese clan temple in Chinatown. The best view of KL as a whole can be had in the posh hilly suburb of Damansara Heights.

        
Southern Swell
        
Desert Prose
        
The Wellfleet Ten
        
Styled to a T | Lapo Elkann
        
This Old Hotel

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RIOTS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); JEWELRY STORES (78%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (72%) Kuala Lumpur; t summer travel 2011; Culture; Food; Travel

GEOGRAPHIC: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (97%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) MALAYSIA (97%); INDIA (94%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (68%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



518 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: Monday Reading: How To Cut Gas Costs This Summer

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Cutting gas costs during summer travel, financing foreclosed homes, kid-proofing your iPhone or iPad and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times.

 BODY:
A variety of consumer-focused articles appears daily in The New York Times and online in our blogs. Each weekday morning, we gather them together here so you can quickly scan the news that could hit your wallet. Are "functional foods" really healthier? (Business) A new book chronicles Wal-Mart's green revolution. (Business) Tips for cutting gas costs during summer travel. (Travel) Is your religion your financial destiny? (Magazine) Fast-tracking kids to kindergarten with Kumon (Style) Divorce lawyers troll social networks for information. (Weddings/Celebrations) Financing foreclosed homes. (Real Estate). Health insurers post record profits as consumers postpone care. (National) Advertisers shift sites to older Americans. (Business) Consumers spending more on credit cards. (Business) Higher food and gas prices boost inflation. (Business) Tips for diagnosing A.D.H.D. (Health) Medicare funds to be depleted earlier than expected. (Economix) Oakland airport installs electric vehicle chargers. (Wheels) How to kid-proof your iPad or iPhone. (Gadgetwise) New stamps raise funds for endangered species. (Green) Patients want access to life-span calculator. (The New Old Age) Public questions if college is worth the money. (The Choice). Appalachian Mountain Club offers hiking discounts for children. (In Transit) Sony begins restoring PlayStation network in phases. (Bits)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); REAL ESTATE (87%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); CHILDREN (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (74%); AGING (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); FUNDRAISING (72%); FUNCTIONAL FOODS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); MEDICARE (71%); MOUNTAINS (70%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (70%); INSURANCE (69%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (52%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (52%) Best of Times

COMPANY: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAIN CLUB (67%); WAL-MART STORES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAIN CLUB (54%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721199 ALL OTHER TRAVELER ACCOMMODATION (67%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



519 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Geography, Income and Religion

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Regions, like religions, are rich (or poor) in large part because of how educated and skilled they are.

 BODY:
In response to my column on religion and income, several readers have asked whether geography plays a big role. As one reader wrote, "Jews (and Asians) live primarily on the coasts, where above average incomes are earned (and needed)." The implication here is that Jews and Hindus aren't the most affluent religions largely because they're the most educated; according to this view, much of their affluence instead stems from the fact that they tend to live in expensive, high-income metropolitan areas, like New York, San Francisco, Washington and Boston.
I think this argument mixes up cause and effect. New York and San Francisco are not expensive cities because of something in the local water or some random factor. They are expensive cities because a lot of people making high incomes live there. And the No. 1 reason those cities have so many high-income people is that they have so many highly skilled, highly educated and thus highly productive workers.
Yes, it's true that not all of the cost-of-living difference stems from difference in productivity. If you took typical workers from an inexpensive city and told them to find new work in San Francisco, they probably would receive a raise -- even though their qualifications would obviously have been the same in the two places. But even this difference stems in part from the higher productivity of urban workers.Here is Edward L. Glaeser -- Harvard professor, economic-growth expert and former contributor to this blog -- writing in his recent book, "Triumph of the City":
Workers in big cities earn about 30 percent more than their nonurban equivalents, but people who come to urban areas don't experience higher wage gains overnight. 
Year-by-year, workers in cities have higher wage growth, as they accumulate the skills that make them successful. 
Wage growth is particularly faster in cities with more skilled workers. Two decades of extra job-market experience is associated with 10 percent more wage growth in skilled metropolitan areas than in nonmetropolitan America, but only 3 percent more wage growth in less skilled metropolitan areas. 
New Yorkers and San Franciscans aren't richer because they happen to have chosen to live in expensive cities. New York and San Francisco are expensive largely because they have attracted so many highly productive jobs. As Mr. Glaeser and other economists have pointed out, nothing breeds productivity quite like education.

        
Education Last Century, and Economic Growth Today
        
Faith, Education and Income
        
The Value of Urban Clustering
        
Can Detroit Find the Road Forward? 
        
Assessing the Daley Legacy in Chicago

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); FACTORY WORKERS (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%) Education; Edward L. Glaeser; Income; religion; Glaeser, Edward L; Religion and Belief; Urban Areas

PERSON: Glaeser, Edward L

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



520 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: Philips Brightens Its LED Lineup

BYLINE: ERIC A. TAUB


HIGHLIGHT: Philips will unveil what it says is the world's first LED standard-type light bulb capable of producing light equivalent to that of a 75-watt bulb.

 BODY:
LED lamps are expected to revolutionize the lighting industry because of their sharply reduced power consumption and their long life compared with standard incandescents. But to date, market acceptance has been slow given the high initial cost ($50 and up in many cases) and limited brightness. LED lamps have only been able to emit light equivalent to a 60-watt standard bulb.
On Friday, Philips will look to change that game by announcing that it will market an LED lamp later this year whose light output equals that of a 75-watt incandescent.
The bulb, the EnduraLED A21, will retail for about $40, last 25,000 hours and produce 1100 lumens of light by consuming just 17 watts of electricity. (A standard 75-watt lamp from GE produces 1170 lumens.) Over the life of the lamp, consumers will save $160, the company says.
While 75-watt equivalent LED lamps have been available in PAR sizes (the types of reflector lamps typically placed in recessed ceiling fixtures), Philips says its EnduraLED is the first 75-watt equivalent in a standard "A" lamp shape. The company expects it to earn the government's Energy Star rating prior to release."The trick with an A lamp is how to project 1100 lumens in 360 degrees," said Ed Crawford, general manager of lamps for Philips Lighting, North America. "It's absolutely more difficult to do 1100 lumens in an omni-directional lamp."
To accomplish that, the new lamp, available around September or October, contains 18 LED modules fixed in multiple directions. Various metal fins surrounding the lamp are used to dissipate heat.
Unlike low-wattage compact fluorescents, which often produce light of a very harsh color, the new lamp will create light that will be indistinguishable from a standard incandescent, Mr. Crawford says.
According to Philips, some 90 million 75-watt incandescent light bulbs are sold annually in the United States, making it the second most popular wattage bulb after the 60 watt (425 million per year).
While it's definitely wishful thinking on the company's part, it says that the nation's energy use would be cut by 5,220 megawatts if if everyone switched to one of Philips' new lamps.

        
If Flying Isn't Green, Can the Airport Wait Be?
        
Pushing the Energy Envelope With China
        
Do Digital Billboards Waste Energy?
        
An Efficient Way to Play Madden Football
        
Delusions Abound on Energy Savings, Study Says

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (93%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (88%); ELECTRONIC DIODES (79%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%) EnduraLED A21; energy consumption; Energy Efficiency; L.E.D.s; Lighting; Philips; Electric Light and Power; Electric Light Bulbs; Lamps and Lampshades; Light-Emitting Diodes; Koninklijke Philips Electronics NV; North America; Koninklijke Philips Electronics NV|PHG|NYSE; Energy Economics; Living

ORGANIZATION: Koninklijke Philips Electronics NV

TICKER: Koninklijke Philips Electronics NV; PHG; NYSE

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%) North America

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



521 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1589 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: Get Your Party Hats On!

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Yes, it's National Small Business Week!

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
PARTY HATS ON! This week is National Small Business Week. Florida plans a bunch of activities. Citibank celebrates by having smart, sexy guys speak at some events. John Jantsch of Duct Tape Marketing is giving away an iPad a day in honor of the occasion. A collection agency recognizes the week with tips on managing late-payers. Chase offers a thousand incentives. (Someone should invite these kids to the party.)
LET'S KEEP IT ANECDOTAL, SHALL WE? Elizabeth Duke, Federal Reserve governor, said last week that recent anecdotal evidence suggests conditions are improving for small businesses: "Although no definitive data source exists, the combination of a variety of recent survey results paints a picture of increasing optimism about future sales and business conditions and a corresponding easing of credit availability for small businesses." On the same day, The National Federation of Independent Business reported that its small-business confidence index fell to a seven-month low. A new survey of consumers showed that 76 percent are reducing their spending at restaurants. Intuit tells Forbes' Eric Savitz that there's a slow recovery in the small-business sector, but an Associated Press poll says Americans are more upbeat about the economy. Jason Fell says there are too many mixed messages on small-business optimism.
YES, IT'S ALL INSANE A bunch of economic bloggers see potential for employment growth despite ongoing economic uncertainty. Steven Meister says true national debt is nowhere near $14.3 trillion. The trade deficit widens. The top White House economist says that tying deficits to the debt ceiling is "insane." A bunch of business groups agree. Some Southwest Airlines employees make some insane trick shots. Ezra Klein lists eight facts (and three thoughts) about Social Security. Paul Krugman explains that inflation is not rising. Wholesale inventories are down, portending future sales. 
CHINA COOLS China reports a cooling economy and wants the United States to lift its controls on technology exports. Timothy Geithner, Treasury secretary, wants China to reign in its growth.
THE DOCTOR'S ADVICE A small-business lender gets $6 million in venture capital funding. Some banks are now allowing us to get overdrafts with a text. An angel tax credit is proposed in Pennsylvania. The Loan Doctor tells small businesses to avoid big banks.
GETTING STARTED Twitter's first engineer is hard at work on a secret start-up. Robert Scoble shares what he learned interviewing 23 start-ups. For example: "The iPad is encouraging some interesting new businesses to form." Steve Strauss writes about the benefits of incubators: "The incubator is more than just a place that offers cheap rent; it is a multi-purpose entity intended to do nothing less than birth new businesses." A university offers tuition for a stake in your business. And I like this cool infographic on how start-ups form, grow and behave.
YOUR TAX DOLLARS AT WORK A small-business bill fails after eight weeks of debate and 150 amendments. Small biotechnology companies oppose the Small Business Innovation Research bill currently in the House. Seattle may become the fourth city in the nation to require all private employers to provide paid sick leave to workers. Town Hall's Lurita Doan asserts that Democrats are announcing new assaults on small business. Shannon O'Neil of the Council of Foreign Relations says that businesses can change the immigration debate: "Of any constituency, business has a cross-cutting power to pressure for the necessary reach across the aisle." According to a Chamber of Commerce survey, both the economy and Washington are hindering small-business growth. Keith Girard says that while Washington dithers, the recovery struggles. Every day, the Tax Foundation calculates, we work until 11:13 a.m. to pay taxes and to lunchtime to pay off the deficit. Companies doing business overseas may get a corporate tax holiday.
THE IMPORTANCE OF HYGIENE Scott Berkun explains why we get ideas in the shower: "It's only when we have quiet time, going for a walk, getting some exercise, or taking a shower, that our conscious minds quiet down enough for our sub-conscious to be heard. And that's why you get ideas in the shower."
SALT CARAMELS AND MORE CUSTOMERS Matt Heinz lists eight things our moms taught us about marketing. For example: "Eat your vegetables. As we grow in our careers, the glamorous, strategic work is always more fun. But the hard work, the tedious work, the grinding, that's what ultimately translates most consistently into success." A blogger named Megan gets more than a thousand comments when she offers three free months of salt caramels. Jill Morton, color psychologist and branding expert, explains how to find colors that sell: "The right color can be worth $80 million - at least that's what's been said about search engine Bing's blue link." McDonald's billion-dollar makeover is designed to bring in more customers.
NO, OUR SANDWICH IS MORE DEADLY BizBuySell.com offers to determine the value of your business for free. A gold recycler makes a mint. Daniel Frank gives us five ideas for charity-based businesses that work. Princess Beatrice sells that ridiculous wedding hat on eBay. Volkswagen unveils its 261 miles-per-gallon car. Score introduces a new Web site. Communications provider 8x8 introduces a virtual office system. A New York City deli claims ownership of the Heart Attack.
STOP THE SCOWLING Melba Duncan reveals the secret weapon of great leaders. Helen Antholis shares 10 things our employees wish we would stop doing, for example: "Stop scowling if employees try to have some fun on the job." A new Jennifer Aniston movie turns her into a horrible boss. John Warrilow offers the one interview question he asks to weed out rotten apples. A survey suggests that nearly eight in 10 of America's office managers are doing more with fewer resources. The bottom line: get off your butt as soon as possible!
JOBS, JANITORS AND A $25 P.C. This year will be the biggest year ever for smartphone revenues, and Credit Sesame's Colin Dobrin shows us, in pictures, why smartphones are replacing checkbooks. Visa's digital wallet proves the point. AccessPR's Michael Young loves Flipboard: "If you haven't tried it, Flipboard is a news aggregation app for the iPad, but to say Flipboard is an app, would be to say the iPad is a computer." An interesting piece by Fortune's Adam Lashinsky tells the story of Apple from Steve Jobs down to the janitor. David Braben creates a USB stick P.C. for $25. Businesses and schools are loving the new Google Chromebook. A guy flies over the Grand Canyon in a jet pack. Soon, Google will predict where he should go next.
SKYPE COSTS MORE THAN YOU THINK TechCrunch's Steve O'Hear says Microsoft overpaid by about $4.5 billion. Others see a bubble. Hey, at least Osama bin Laden make a shrewd investment.
WE'RE NO. 47! Bloomberg BusinessWeek lists the best business schools by specialty. New Jersey is ranked the 47th best place to do business in the United States. These guys must be ranked last in the ability to load trucks. The most hipster state is ... Minnesota?
THE WEEK AHEAD The Fed takes center stage - look for what Ben Bernanke has to say about the economy when he speaks to a business group Tuesday. And watch for the Philadelphia Fed's manufacturing index on Thursday. Housing numbers are due this week: new building permits, new housing starts and existing homes sales.
THIS WEEK'S AWARDS
BEST CONFESSION FROM A SMART MAN After more than a quarter of a century as a professional economist, Harvard professor Gregory Mankiw has a confession to make: There is a lot he doesn't know about the economy. For example: "A striking feature of today's labor market is the rise of long-term joblessness. The average duration of unemployment is now almost 40 weeks, about twice what it reached in previous recessions. The long-term unemployed may well lose job skills and find their future prospects permanently impaired. But because we are in uncharted waters, it is hard for anyone to be sure."
BEST EXAMPLE OF LEADERSHIP A Japanese village survived the tsunami thanks to a huge wall that once was deemed a mayor's expensive folly and now has been vindicated as the community's salvation. At his retirement, Mayor Wamura stood before village employees to bid farewell: "Even if you encounter opposition, have conviction and finish what you start. In the end, people will understand."
BEST START-UP ADVICE Joel Nilson, a "chronic" entrepreneur, shares five (sarcastic) truths about entrepreneurship. My favorite: "You will be thought an idiot until you start making money. I only have one book that is mandatory reading for my staff: The Little Red Hen. Business ownership is exactly like the story. No one wants to plant the wheat or harvest the wheat or grind the wheat. But when the bread comes out of the oven, people will appear out of thin air."
THIS WEEK'S QUESTION Did you have a Little Red Hen experience with your start-up?
Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter.

        
This Week in Small Business: The Shutdown and the Showdown
        
This Week in Small Business: We're Watching Japan, Libya and Hugo Chavez
        
This Week in Small Business: Radiation, Inflation and Regulation
        
This Week in Small Business: Start-Ups Surge
        
This Week in Small Business: Peace, Love and Misunderstanding

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); MARKETING SURVEYS (77%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (76%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (74%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); DEBT CEILING (71%); SOCIAL SECURITY (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); INVENTORIES (66%); TUITION FEES (65%); VENTURE CAPITAL (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); NATIONAL DEBT (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); EXPORT TRADE (64%); TAX LAW (60%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (50%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (50%) economy; Small Business; small business economy; dashboard

COMPANY: INTUIT INC (55%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (56%)

TICKER: INTU (NASDAQ) (55%); LUV (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (50%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



522 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Economics for Sale

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Are universities and their faculty yielding their right to shape education to wealthy donors, an economist asks.

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts Amherst.
If you don't like what economics professors like me are saying, go hire your own. Of course, if they're on your payroll, no one will be surprised if they agree with you, so it's best to hire them indirectly, through a tied donation to a university.
Frustrated that so few students are reading your favorite book about the virtues of free enterprise? Offer highly respected universities money to make it required reading.
As Catherine Rampell pointed out in Economix last week, conservative foundations founded by Charles Koch and John Allison have actively pursued such strategies.
Deft investigative reporting by James Lardner at Remapping Debate shows how another foundation established by one of the country's wealthiest men, Peter G. Peterson, hired professors at Columbia University to develop a "fiscal responsibility" curriculum for high schools in the United States that closely reflects his own "deficit hawk" views.Jennifer Washburn, author of "University Inc.," has argued for years that public higher education is being increasingly privatized by reliance on corporate and alumni donations.
Concerns about this trend are often framed in terms of academic freedom, putting the onus primarily on universities. After all, if they don't like the strings attached to donations, they can turn them down.
An editorial in the St. Petersburg Times, which recently broke the story about the Koch Foundation's support for two professorships at Florida State for which it has the power to screen appointments, musters some admirably old-fashioned outrage.
But, as that editorial points out, the issue reaches well beyond principles of academic freedom.
In the marketplace of ideas, people with a lot of money can buy whatever they want, and that's fine. Unfortunately, they also have the power to influence other people's ideas in ways that violate principles of justice, undermine democracy and distort the truth.
It's difficult to agree on a bright line dividing what we should allow from what we should prohibit. But we can describe a spectrum of efforts to influence ideas that range from the innocent to the corrupt.
Political advertising that honestly states a point of view clearly represents a form of free speech. At the opposite extreme lie criminal activities such as bribing jurors or buying inside information to profiteer in stocks.
The messy stuff lies in between. Efforts to negotiate new legal and moral boundaries are sometimes described as normative meddling rather than objective science. Edward Glaeser seemed to take this position in his post last week on Economix.
But surely efforts to decide what money should be allowed to buy could be usefully informed by social science research. What happens when wealth and income, concentrated in a few hands, can purchase influence without restraint?
Many studies paint an ugly picture. In "Rich Media, Poor Democracy," Robert W. McChesney argues that corporate control of media shapes the information available to most of the public, constraining democratic debate.
In "Merchants of Doubt," Naomi Oreskes and Erik Conway document extensive corporate efforts to debunk scientific evidence of a variety of problems as diverse as cigarette smoking and global warming.
In "Winner-Take-All Politics," the political scientists Jacob S. Hacker and Paul Pierson explain how the increasing influence of campaign contributions on electoral outcomes has effectively disenfranchised low-income voters.
I haven't been able to find any comprehensive research on the consequences of efforts to tilt economic education in a more conservative direction.
Maybe it's hard to find wealthy donors eager to finance that kind of research with no strings attached.

        
Why Does College Cost So Much?
        
The Plight of Generation Un 
        
Is College Tuition Too Low?
        
Ethics for Economists
        
College Students, the New Cash Cows

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); ACADEMIC FREEDOM (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (76%); WRITERS (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); SCIENCE FUNDING (75%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); TRENDS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); ALUMNI (66%); CORRUPTION (65%); BRIBERY (65%); JURY TRIALS (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (55%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (50%) Academic Freedom; academic integrity; Economics; higher education; Nancy Folbre; universities; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: PETE PETERSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011



523 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Mapping Happiness: Analyzing an Interactive About a Nation's Well-Being

BYLINE: ANNISSA HAMBOUZ and KATHERINE SCHULTEN


HIGHLIGHT: We're experimenting with multimedia again this week by presenting questions and inquiry activities around an interactive map showing Americans' responses to questions about quality of life by Congressional district.

 BODY:
This month we've been experimenting with a new "Multimedia of the Week" feature, and today we have a second installment.
This one features a New York Times interactive map that converts Americans' responses to questions about 20 different quality of life indicators, from job satisfaction to exercise, and sorts the responses by Congressional district. Below, we provide questions and activities for analyzing the map and using it for classroom inquiry.
Let us know what you think of this new format!
Before Viewing
Before students open the interactive map and read the questions the Gallup interviewers actually asked, have them make a list of questions might ask in phone interviews with random Americans if they were interested in finding out about the quality of life across the United States. What general factors do you think are responsible for creating a sense of well-being in most people? After students have made their lists, open the map to see how many are similar to the questions Gallup researchers actually asked.
Questions |

        
How does this map work? What do the percentages and corresponding shades on the map key represent? How would you explain how to read it to someone just opening it up?

        
Which of the well-being indicators do you think are most important for measuring a person's quality of life? Which indicators, if any, surprised you?

        
Click on the composite index map. What conclusions can you draw about well-being in the United States just on first glance?

        
After clicking on some of the different quality-of-life indicators (for example, Depression, Stress, Smoking, Obesity, Fruits/Vegetables, etc.) and viewing the maps for each, do you see any relationships between them or between the states or regions represented? How would you explain any patterns you see? Present three to five surprising correlations, along with your best hypotheses, to the class.

        
Do the Gallup results mapped here match your own understanding of and thoughts on the quality of life in the United States? Why or why not? Which state's or region's results are the most unexpected?

        
Why do you think Gallup goes to the trouble of doing this survey? How might this information be used?
Activity Ideas |

Have students design and conduct their own happiness or well-being polls based on some of the indicators used by the Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index, or by developing their own criteria. You might consult our lesson plan "A Measure of Happiness," in which students develop and conduct an e-mail survey to determine how people in their communities measure happiness. Using their results, students might write their own "Happiest Person in Our Community" profiles in the style of "Discovered: Happiest Man in America," a Week in Review article related to the interactive map.

Use the interactive map as a starting point to have students explore happiness and well-being on a global scale. Which countries are considered the happiest, and why? How much do you think a country's overall happiness is related to factors like its G.D.P. or literacy rate? To start, you might consult the New York Times graphic, "A Plateau of Happiness, Forbes.com's photo slideshow"In Pictures: The World's Happiest Countries," and international Gallup polling results.

Have students work individually or in groups to brainstorm topics that interest them or that fit your curriculum and for which they can either interview or research to find data. Invite them to then create their own maps, either in print or using online tools such as Google maps. For instance, they might map information about the current international popularity of a sport they like. Or, like the eighth graders in Kyle Nystad's class at Stratford Hall in Vancouver, Canada (with support from David Wees, the school's Learning Specialist in Technology) who mapped "A Region in Turmoil," they could create maps related to news events. Students could also map something much closer to home, such as the varying prices of popular foods at different places in their area, the best local bird-watching spots, or anything else they can think of.

The Gallup Healthways Well-Being Index incorporates a number of physical and emotional health and behavioral factors. Have students review these criteria and discuss the relationship between health and happiness. You might also check out our related science lesson plans, "All Smiles: Studying the Science of Smiling and Related Behaviors" and "Mind and Body: Investigating the Health and Science of Meditation."

See what students have to say about this topic by reading the responses to our Student Opinion question, "Are You Happy?" Then read and respond to another happiness-related question, like "What Are Some Recent Moments of Happiness in Your Life?,"Can Money Buy You Happiness?," or "Does Your Stuff Make You Happy?"You might also use one of these questions as prompts to have students write reflective essays on what makes them happy and why.

        
American Quality of Life in an Interactive Map
        
A New York City Matrix
        
Teaching With Infographics | Science and Health
        
Teaching With Infographics | Social Studies, History, Economics
        
Teaching With Infographics | Places to Start

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); OBESITY (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); SMOKING (64%) happiness; infographic; infographics; Maps; Civics; Crime; Culture and Identity; Data Analysis and Probability; Education; Environment and Society; Geography; Health; Individual Rights; Lesson Plans; Mathematics; Multimedia; Personal Health; Social Studies

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011



524 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: Ryan Defends Medicare Proposal

BYLINE: CARL HULSE


HIGHLIGHT: In a speech to the Economic Club of Chicago, Representative Paul D. Ryan pushes back against Democratic criticism of his idea to remake Medicare.

 BODY:
With protesters gathered outside, Representative Paul D. Ryan, the House Budget Committee chairman, on Monday defended his Medicare proposal in a speech to the Economic Club of Chicago.
 Mr. Ryan's speech, to be followed by an appearance in Chicago on Tuesday by Representative Eric Cantor, the Virginia Republican and majority leader, is part of a concerted push by Congressional Republicans to make the case for deep spending cuts to accompany an increase in the federal debt limit as sought by the White House. 
 "For every dollar the president wants to raise the debt ceiling, we can show him plenty of ways to cut far more than a dollar of spending," Mr. Ryan said, echoing the position of Speaker John A. Boehner. "Given the magnitude of our debt burden, the size of the spending cuts should exceed the size of the president's debt limit increase."
 But Democrats have seized on the plan as emblematic of Republican determination to cut back on social spending. The Congressional Budget Office has said that the Ryan plan would drive up health costs for future retirees and limit their coverage.
 Mr. Ryan, who said the blame for the rising debt should be shared between both parties, accused President Obama and fellow Democrats of trying to pit Americans against one another.
 Mr. Ryan, who is pondering whether to seek the Senate seat that Herb Kohl, a Democrat, is giving up, said he would make up his mind before the end of the week. He said his main consideration was to decide which chamber would give him the most impact in the fiscal debate, a factor that would seem to weigh in favor of staying in the House. He said the political heat over Medicare would not influence his decision.

        
Chairman of House Tax Committee Backs Off Medicare Plan
        
Vouchers Proposed for Medicare in 2021
        
McConnell Thinking Big on Entitlements
        
House Republicans Express Unity on Budget 
        
Biden Calls First Deficit Meeting 'Productive'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (94%); DEBT CEILING (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%) Eric Cantor; federal debt limit; Medicare; paul d. ryan; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (94%); ERIC CANTOR (73%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); HERB KOHL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



525 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: After 22 Years - 22 Years! - K.K.R. Is Exiting Primedia

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: TPG Capital has agreed to acquire Primedia in a deal valued at $525 million including debt, finally unwinding K.K.R.'s investment in the company.

 BODY:
7:12 p.m. | Updated 
If you happened to stroll by the offices of the private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company on Monday, you might have seen Henry R. Kravis removing an albatross from around his neck.
The albatross was Primedia, the media business that K.K.R. has owned since the Bush administration - the first Bush administration.
Primedia, a publicly traded company majority owned by K.K.R., agreed to sell itself to the buyout firm TPG Capital in a deal valued at $525 million including debt. The sale, assuming it closes, will end K.K.R.'s 22-year stewardship of the company, making it the firm's longest investment ever - and one of its least successful.
A spokeswoman for K.K.R. declined to comment.
In 1989, Mr. Kravis and his partners at K.K.R. formed K-III Holdings to acquire print media assets. Its first deal was the purchase of a book club division from Macmillan and other assets for $310 million. A couple of years later, it paid $600 million for nine magazine titles from the News Corporation, including New York and Seventeen.
The company went public in 1995, with K.K.R. retaining majority control.
In 1997, K-III changed its named to the more flashy Primedia. ("K-III's a horrible name," the late Bill Reilly, Primedia's chief executive, said at the time.)
Then, just as the dot-com bubble was inflating, Primedia began an aggressive Web strategy. Under the direction of Thomas S. Rogers, a prominent media executive brought in by K.K.R., Primedia paid $690 million for About.com in the fall of 2000. The next year, it spent $515 million on the American holdings of the magazine publisher Emap, whose titles included Motor Trend and Teen.
K.K.R. paid for all of these assets with nearly $1 billion of its own money. It borrowed the rest, racking up more than $2 billion of debt. The excessive leverage hobbled Primedia over the last decade as it wrestled with the inexorable decline of the print media business.
Facing the twin problems of a crushing debt load and an advertising downturn, K.K.R. was forced to disassemble Primedia. The buyout shop brought in its Capstone consulting group, which aggressively cut costs, shut magazine titles and sold off the others, including the marquee properties New York and Seventeen. Indeed, Primedia has completely exited the magazine business.
Primedia announced in February 2005 that it had sold About.com to The New York Times Company for $410 million.
So what does TPG, which paid a 62 percent premium to Primedia's closing stock price on Friday, see in Primedia? Today, the company's sole assets are real estate properties like ApartmentGuide.com and NewHomeGuide.com.
"Primedia is a leading resource for consumers in search of housing," David Trujillo, a TPG executive, said in a statement. Mr. Trujillo also highlighted the continued shift away from print, adding: "We believe the company will continue to benefit from the continuing secular transition from print to digital media."
As for Mr. Kravis, he and his investors lost money on Primedia, although a firm spokeswoman declined to specify how much. Using simple math, it would appear that K.K.R. funds lost several hundred million dollars on the deal. But private equity math is never simple. Over the last two decades, K.K.R. has earned back some of its investment by paying itself dividends and buying back debt.
K.K.R. also employed another private equity trick in selling Primedia. It offloaded the company to TPG, another buyout firm. These so-called secondary buyouts, in which a company is passed from one private equity shop to another, have a mixed reputation among investors.
At least no one can accuse K.K.R. of having a short-term focus.

        
A Grab for Wall Street's Rising Stars Before They've Risen
        
Carlyle Starts Renminbi Fund in China

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (89%); DIVESTITURES (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (71%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Kohlberg Kravis Roberts; Primedia; TPG Capital; Kravis, Henry R; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co; Primedia Inc; Primedia Inc|PRM|NYSE; Media; Mergers & Acquisitions; Private Equity

COMPANY: KKR & CO LP (96%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (81%); NEWS CORP (68%); TPG CAPITAL LP (58%); EMAP PLC (53%); ABOUT.COM INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co; Primedia Inc; TPG Capital

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (96%); NYT (NYSE) (81%); NWS (NASDAQ) (68%); NWS (ASX) (68%) Primedia Inc; PRM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (96%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (81%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (68%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (68%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: HENRY KRAVIS (90%) Kravis, Henry R

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



526 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1609 words

HEADLINE: Lester Lave - An Appreciation

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Three view of the legacy of a departed expert on the intersection of energy, pollution, health and public welfare.

 BODY:
David Keith, a University of Calgary researcher focused on carbon, climate and energy technology and policy, sent a note last week alerting me to the death of Lester B. Lave, an environmental economist at Carnegie Mellon University who had been a mentor, colleague and friend of his.
Lave had an extraordinary aptitude for letting data lead the way in considering risks and benefits of activities with impacts on the environment or health. Here's Lave from 2008, describing the costs of persistent dependence on foreign oil:
I invited Keith to send an appreciation of Lave. He ended up co-writing the resulting piece with Jay Apt, a colleague of Lave's at Carnegie Mellon, and Joule Bergerson, who pursued his doctorate under Lave and (along with Apt) collaborated with Lave on many papers and is now on the faculty at Calgary. Here's their post, with individual reflections of each of the three contributors set off in italics:Lester B. Lave, one of the nation's leading economists, died May 9th at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 71.
Before he was 30, Lester and his student Eugene Seskin used the tools of applied economics to demonstrate that air pollution in American cities was causing a significant increase in death rates. That groundbreaking publication in Science landed him on Richard Nixon's enemies list. But on the last day of 1970, Nixon signed the Clean Air Act into law, creating the Environmental Protection Agency. Lave and Seskin's analysis served as a key early basis for E.P.A. regulations to improve air quality.
More than two decades later the Harvard Six-City Study of 1993 would remove serious grounds for doubting that roughly 1 percent of all deaths in the U.S. come from small-particle air pollution. Lester's early study laid the methodological foundation for these later studies. As an economist, he had made a major advance at the junction of epidemiology, atmospheric chemistry and public policy.
David Keith: Academic energy and environmental research is afflicted by far too many true believers. Folks who just 'know' the answer is more efficiency, more nukes, more solar, more carbon capture or more whatever. More than anyone else, Lester provided my ideal at balancing the sometimes opposing drives to help make the world better while holding fast to the academic ideals of dispassionate rigorous analysis. 
While whizzing through Harvard's economics Ph.D. program in three years, he decided that he would dedicate his career to applying tools developed in economics and risk analysis to problems that profoundly affect the lives of millions of people. Abstract theories were fine, but he wanted to work on problems that affected life and death.
Lester jumped into a new problem about once a decade. He had an outstanding ability to choose important problems, perform careful analysis, and present results that questioned conventional wisdom. A former president of the Society for Risk Analysis (1985-6), much of his research focused on the problems of balancing environmental and other risks with economic and other social objectives. Global climate change, dam safety, and the environmental effects of fuel additives were but a few of the topics addressed by Lave and his students.
He had a voracious curiosity, and an unbending commitment to hard-nosed transparent analysis. He loved learning about technology like thermal energy storage for buildings, but love of technology did not turn is head, he was absolutely unflinching in showing that the space it required could produce more revenue in rent than it would save in energy costs.
Jay Apt: Lester had a nose for what was important and he encouraged his colleagues to write clearly, saying "Don't hide your light under a bushel basket." Some years ago I had produced a result that he thought was interesting, but I'd been stymied for a month by not being able to represent the data in a compelling graph. He pushed me by asking me in front of a small conference to show the messy data, knowing it would get me worried about being scooped. I came up with the right graph a day later. He was always able to get the best thinking out of those around him by asking the right questions, and always made them feel enriched and empowered by the process. He was the best person on our faculty to give career advice. There are probably a hundred successful people who owe their careers to Lester's advice, always given without varnish but with respect.
With Gil Omenn he did landmark work on testing of toxic chemicals that resulted in a paper in Nature showing that testing on rats and mice was a poor way to predict effects in humans. In 1982, in recognition of his many contributions to environmental and public health, Lave was elected to the Institute of Medicine (one of the three arms of the National Academy of Science). He served on, and chaired, numerous study committees of the National Academies (N.R.C.). Most recently he chaired the Academy report "Real Prospects for Energy Efficiency in the United States" that demonstrated large opportunities for saving energy by improving buildings. At the time of his death he was chairing an Academy committee on whether and how to make motor fuels from biomass.
In the 1990s Lester, and colleagues Chris Hendrickson and Francis McMichael, analyzed California's plans to require the adoption of electric cars that would use lead-acid batteries. Their life cycle analysis found that in recycling the batteries from such cars, more lead would be released into the environment than if the cars burned leaded gasoline. While vigorously disputed, these results were ultimately vindicated, pushing California and the nation toward better polices for clean cars.
Joule Bergerson: I use this example at the beginning of many talks about life cycle assessment. It is a classic and relevant example that shows the potential for unintended consequences when crafting and implementing policy and the urgent need for this type of analysis.
He offered one of the first university courses on The Economics of the Environment, and in 1996 he wrote a scathing critique of benefit - cost analysis that argued that "the foundation of benefit-cost analysis is flawed: the tool cannot provide what some economists claim. Even if the technique might be valid when implemented by a master with unlimited time and resources for analysis, it is a problematic tool in practice when resources are extremely limited, time is short, and people with little training or experience do the analysis." This was at a critical time, when benefit-cost analysis was being used as a blunt weapon to cripple environmental regulations.
For the past 15 years, Lester devoted much of his attention to two problems: green design and improving the electricity system. He helped to found and run Carnegie Mellon's Green Design Institute, which has focused on finding environmentally acceptable ways of manufacturing, using, disposing of, and recycling products. As part of that effort, he helped to build a new systematic economy-wide approach to life cycle analysis. He co-founded and built Carnegie Mellon's Electricity Industry Center, which today is the largest interdisciplinary group of its kind working on all aspects of the electric power industry.
A greatly-loved teacher, he counted among his students CEOs of some of the nation's best-run companies.
Joule Bergerson: The link between a Ph.D. student and his advisor is a cornerstone of academic life. Lester's impact on my life and research has been profound and his impact continues to be felt as I now begin to advise my own students. Upon reflection, there was no single piece of pivotal advice that left an impression. Instead, it was an intuition and approach to problems that permeates my current research and support of the students I now advise. As I talk with students I am guided by Lester's patient and supportive responses to my questions and concerns. As I look for new research questions I hear Lester's advice to focus on the problems where well-structured, transparent analysis can make a big impact. The other day I was talking with a master's student researching Ph.D. programs. My advice to him was that the programs and universities are important considerations. However, what is absolutely critical is finding the right advisor. The relationship with your Ph.D. advisor can be one of the most important in your life. You need to feel comfortable having them in the back of your head for the rest of your life. I will cherish Lester's voice always.
With the exception of five years at the Brookings Institution in Washington, Lave spent his entire professional career at Carnegie Mellon University, during which he published or contributed to 28 books and over 400 professional and other publications and supervised 40 Ph.D. students and postdoctoral fellows. One of his students wrote him recently that he epitomizes all that is good about academia: the sharp intellect, the complete lack of pretense, the honesty and integrity and brilliance with which he analyzed every problem, and a body of scholarly work that has actually saved lives.
Lester cultivated the ability to see other viewpoints with humility, and without rancor. When we read daily that there is no truth except what extremists want to believe, Lester Lave's approach to life is an inspiring refutation and a guide to everyone who wants to change the world.

        
Global Warming Basics
        
From 'Bot Herders' to Nuclear Waste - Pick Your Emergency
        
What Does Exxon Owe Alaskans? 1994: $5 Billion; 2006: $2.5 Billion; Today: $0.5 Billion...
        
America's Leaky Buildings and the Climate Challenge
        
Is Burning Coal a Patriotic Duty?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); AIR QUALITY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); AIR POLLUTION (87%); CLIMATOLOGY (78%); CHEMISTRY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); TRENDS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PARTICULATE MATTER (71%); GREENHOUSE GASES (66%); CITY LIFE (65%); CITIES (65%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (63%) Appreciation; Economics; energy; Environment; pollution; risk; science; Apt, Jay; Lave, Lester; Nixon, Richard Milhous; Air Pollution; Chemicals; Clean Air Act; Deaths (Obituaries); Economic Conditions and Trends; Electric Light and Power; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Research; Carnegie Mellon University; Environmental Protection Agency; University of Calgary; Climate Change

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (82%) Carnegie Mellon University; Environmental Protection Agency; University of Calgary

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (86%) Apt, Jay; Lave, Lester; Nixon, Richard Milhous

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (78%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



527 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Trump Opts Out of Presidential Run

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Saying that he's "not ready to leave the private sector," the real estate mogul and reality TV host ended months of over-the-top speculation that he might seek the Republican nomination for 2012.

 BODY:
Donald Trump has fired himself.
Mr. Trump, the real estate mogul and reality television host, is not going to run for president, he said Monday, ending months of over-the-top speculation that he might seek the 2012 Republican nomination.
"After considerable deliberation and reflection, I have decided not to pursue the presidency," he said in a statement.
"I maintain the strong conviction that if I were to run, I would be able to win the primary and ultimately, the general election," Mr. Trumps said, adding, "Ultimately, however, business is my greatest passion, and I am not ready to leave the private sector."
In addition to his statement, Mr. Trump announced his decision in person at Monday's event for the broadcast networks to preview their fall lineups.
"I will not be running for president," he said, according to Brian Stelter of The New York Times, who is reporting live from the event. Advertisers cheered at the news.
Mr. Trump burst onto the political scene this spring by dangling the possibility that he might use his fortune and his celebrity to mount a campaign against President Obama.
He seized the attention of the news media by making bold and outlandish statements, in particular by asserting doubts that Mr. Obama had been born in the United States. 
Mr. Trump's use of the so-called birther issue culminated in a bizarre split-screen moment last month when he held an impromptu news conference in New Hampshire as Mr. Obama released his long-form birth certificate at the White House.
At the time, Mr. Trump refused to say whether he was running, focusing on the fact that his NBC show, "Celebrity Apprentice," was still on the air.
"When the show is over -- and the finale is on May 22nd -- when the show is over, I will then be free to announce. I think you will be surprised at a number of things, but I think you will be surprised at what my announcement is," he said at the time.
The attention, and the speculation about his intentions, rocketed Mr. Trump toward the top of the early polls, though he recently had faded again toward the bottom of the pack of Republican hopefuls.
Mr. Trump's statement on Monday was devoid of any of the theatrics that he offered over the last several months. But he continued to credit himself for pushing the political conversation toward the economy.
"I will continue to push our president and the country's policy makers to address the dire challenges arising from our unsustainable debt structure and increasing lack of global competitiveness," he said. "Issues, including getting tough on China and other countries that are methodically and systematically taking advantage of the United States, were seldom mentioned before I brought them to the forefront of the country's conversation."
The decision means that Mr. Trump will go back to his NBC show, which has been one of the network's highest performers.

        
G.O.P. Candidates Line Up to Compliment Huckabee
        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend
        
Will Trump Run? Christie Doubts It
        
Romney Talks Economy in Nevada
        
Thune Passes on 2012 Presidential Run

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%) 2012; donald trump; Presidential Election of 2012; Trump, Donald J; The Caucus

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (94%); BARACK OBAMA (78%) Trump, Donald J

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



528 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: White House Ties Trade Pacts to Unemployment Benefits

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: The Obama administration will not push free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama and South Korea until House Republicans agree to expand unemployment assistance for American workers.

 BODY:
The Obama administration will not seek Congressional approval of free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama and South Korea until House Republicans agree to expand unemployment assistance for American workers. The White House wants Congress to restore a program that lapsed in February and provides supplemental benefits for workers whose jobs are shipped overseas, administration officials said on a conference call Monday morning. "This administration believes that just as we should be excited about the prospect of selling more of what we make around the world, we have to be equally firm about keeping faith with America's workers," said Ron Kirk, the United States trade representative. The announcement puts the White House in line with Congressional Democrats who have demanded the expansion of benefits as a condition of their support for the agreements, which are opposed by unions and other parts of the Democratic base. Republicans until now have refused to continue the program, citing its cost. But key business groups have lined up with the White House, sending a letter to Congress earlier this month that urged a deal on unemployment benefits to clear the way for the trade pacts.

        
G.O.P. Wants Deal on Commerce Secretary
        
Boehner Says Republicans and President Found 'Common Ground' Over Lunch
        
Obama Won't Press States to Repay Unemployment Debt
        
The Early Word: Face to Face 
        
Senate Is Voting to Cut Off Debate on Tax Deal 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (94%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (56%) trade; unemployment benefits; Kirk, Ron; International Trade and World Market; Congress; The 44th President

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RON KIRK (88%) Kirk, Ron

GEOGRAPHIC: PANAMA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); COLOMBIA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



529 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Best Political Quotes of the Weekend

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Miss the political chatter this weekend? The Caucus has rounded up some of the most memorable political quotes.

 BODY:
Miss the political chatter this weekend? The Caucus has rounded up some of the most memorable political quotes. 
1. As he nears the end of his career at the Pentagon, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said Sunday that the hardest thing he has dealt with "is leading a department that is organized to plan for war but not to fight a war. And so everything that I've wanted to do to try and help the men and women in the field I've had to do outside the normal Pentagon bureaucracy. And I've had to be directly involved on a week-to-week basis to make sure that it got done. That's been very frustrating." In the interview on CBS's "60 Minutes," Mr. Gates again praised President Obama's handling of the raid that killed Osama bin Laden. "I worked for a lot of these guys. And this is one of the most courageous calls, decisions, that I think I've ever seen a president make," he said. "The uncertainty of the intelligence. The consequences of it going bad. The risk to the lives of the Americans involved. It was a very gutsy call."
2. Newt Gingrich, the former speaker of the House, may be running for the Republican presidential nomination, but he's not afraid of disagreeing with the party's leadership. Speaking on NBC's "Meet the Press," Mr. Gingrich called the Medicare changes proposed by House Republicans "too big a jump," and said it resembled "right-wing social engineering." Asked whether he supports changing Medicare to a voucher system, as proposed by Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, Mr. Gingrich said, " I think what you want to have is a system where people voluntarily migrate to better outcomes, better solutions, better options. Not one where you suddenly impose upon -- I'm against Obamacare, which is imposing radical change, and I would be against a conservative imposing radical change."
3. The current House speaker, John A. Boehner, continues to say he will refuse to allow the nation's debt ceiling to be raised unless Mr. Obama and Democrats give in to huge budget cuts. "No more kicking the can down the road. No more whistling past the graveyard. Now is the time to deal with the fiscal problems we have in an adultlike manner," he said on CBS's "Face the Nation" on Sunday. Asked if that includes changes to Medicare, Mr. Boehner said, "Medicare, Medicaid, all -- everything should be on the table except raising taxes." He added that he has told Mr. Obama: "Come on, you and I. Let's lock arms and we'll jump out of the boat together. I'm serious about dealing with this. And I hope he's just as serious. No gimmicks. No automatic claw-backs. I've had it with all of that. We know what needs to be done. Let's just do it."
4. Nikki Haley, the governor of South Carolina, said on ABC's "This Week" program that she does not intend to be on the Republican presidential ticket as a vice presidential nominee. But she had plenty of thoughts on Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts. "I will tell you we do not want a Massachusetts health care plan in South Carolina," Ms. Haley said. "I think that he will have to continue to deal with that issue. I think he's going to have to talk about how that was not good for the country. That wouldn't be a good thing that we'd want to mandate on all of our states. And I think he'll have to respond to what his thought process was."
5. On Saturday night, Mike Huckabee finally came clean and said he would not run for president in 2012. But on Sunday morning, while saying on "Fox News Sunday" that he was at peace with his decision, he added that "I would have made a fine president." Mr. Huckabee, who will keep his show on Fox, said he was headed toward a second run for the nomination until very recently. "Up until just a few days ago, Chris, I honestly I thought I would be in it," he told Chris Wallace, the morning show's host. "And more and more, the signs were pointing that way, the objections were moved out of the way, and I could see a pathway to getting the money that I never thought perhaps I could. And, you know, things began to unfold. But it was almost as if the more that all of the external things began to materialize, the less the internal things began to crystallize for me."

        
Conservatives Urge Boehner to Cut a Budget Deal and Move On
        
The Case for Obama Campaigning on the Economy
        
2012 Republicans Embrace Nuclear Power, So Far
        
Obama Strategy: Share Credit (and Blame?)
        
Best Political Quotes of the Holiday Weekend

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (86%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); DEBT CEILING (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (65%); PUBLIC DEBT (65%); BUDGETS (65%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (53%); MEDICAID (50%); BUDGET CUTS (50%) barack obama; Congress; Democrats; john boehner; mike huckabee; mitt romney; Nikki Haley; Republicans; Senate; Boehner, John A; Gates, Robert M; Gingrich, Newt; Haley, Nikki; Huckabee, Mike; Obama, Barack; National Debt (US); Politics and Government; Reform and Reorganization; Defense Department; House of Representatives; South Carolina; United States; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

ORGANIZATION: Defense Department; House of Representatives

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (89%); JOHN BOEHNER (89%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (88%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); PAUL RYAN (79%); NIKKI HALEY (78%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (52%) Boehner, John A; Gates, Robert M; Gingrich, Newt; Haley, Nikki; Huckabee, Mike; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) South Carolina; United States

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



530 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 3959 words

HEADLINE: The Goldman Sachs Diaspora

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG, BEN PROTESS and EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: When Goldman went public in 1999, a group of 221 executives controlled the firm. Now, only 39 remain, with the others going to top jobs in finance, government and even sports. 

 BODY:
Retirement often conjures images of shuffleboard or fishing. But for most Goldman Sachs partners, it signals the start of another career. 
When Goldman went public in May 1999, a group of 221 executives controlled the firm, with roughly 60 percent of the outstanding shares. Now, only 39 of the original partnership class remains, with others going to top jobs in finance, government and even sports, according to a study by The New York Times. 
They reaped a windfall at the initial public offering, based on a previously unreported partnership document. John Thain, chief executive of the lender CIT Group, and John Thornton, a professor at Tsinghua University in China, each held approximately than 1 percent of the firm prior to the market debut. Each of those stakes were worth roughly $165 million at the public offering, according to former partners. 
It's been a highly influential group, both at Goldman and beyond. Roughly 100 moved to other financial firms or started their own businesses, including Eric Mindich and Erland S. Karlsson, who together founded the hedge fund Eton Park Capital Management. Several went into the public sector, like Henry M. Paulson Jr., who served at the Treasury secretary during the financial crisis. Some partners have straddled both politics and finance, like Jon S. Corzine, who went on to become governor of New Jersey and is now running financial firm MF Global. 
A number of former partners took a much different path. Several are in sports management, helping run the United States soccer league, the London Organising Committee of the Olympic Games and other organizations. At least one partner is truly doing God's work: Gregory H. Zehner, a former pastor, is living in Utah and writing a book on Christianity. 
Here is an interactive table of the original partnership class. Search by name or company Filter by category All categories Corporate director/executive Education/non-profit Finance Goldman Sachs Government/politics Multiple positions Other Private investor/Retired Sports management
Displaying 221 of 221 records.
Stake in Goldman prior to I.P.O.Current jobAbby Joseph Cohen0.200% 
Goldman Sachs, president of global markets institute; senior investment strategist
 Alexander C. Dibelius0.200% Goldman Sachs, head of investment banking for Germany, Austria, Russia and Central and Eastern Europe 
 Alok Oberoi0.325% ACPI Investment Managers, co-chief executive
 Amy O. Goodfriend0.200% American Corporate Partners, director of the company, which offers free counseling to recent war veterans
 Andrew A. Chisholm0.200% Goldman Sachs, global co-head of the financial institutions group
 Andrew M. Alper0.525% multiple positions
(chairman of EQA Partners; chairman of the board of trustees at the University of Chicago; and former head of the New York City Economic Development Corporation)
 Andrew M. Gordon0.200% Goldman Sachs, co-head of global technology, media and telecommunications
 Ann F. Kaplan0.400% multiple positions
(partner of Circle Wealth Management, an investment advisory firm; chairwoman of Circle Financial Group, a wealth management membership organization; board member at nonprofit organizations) Anthony D. Lauto0.200% Morgan Stanley, co-head of equities trading for the Americas
 Anthony G. Williams0.475% multiple positions
(chairman of Bluefield Partners, an asset management firm in solar infrastructure; trustee for the charity Absolute Return for Kids) Antoine Schwartz0.200% The Black Ant Group, founder; chief executive
 Armen A. Avanessians0.475% Goldman Sachs, global head of strats
 Arthur J. Reimers0.475% multiple positions
(lead director at FBR Capital Markets; chairman of Rotech Healthcare) Avi M. Nash0.200% multiple positions
(director of Sigma Aldrich, a chemical company; founder of Avi Nash L.L.C., a management consulting firm) Barry A. Kaplan0.325% Maple Tree Capital Management, founder; president 
 Barry L. Zubrow0.650% JPMorgan Chase, chief risk officer; executive vice president 
 Barry S. Volpert0.600% Crestview Partners, co-founder; partner 
 Bradford C. Koenig0.375% Meadowood Capital, founder; partner
 Bradley I. Abelow0.200% MF Global, chief operating officer; president
 Byron D. Trott0.550% BDT Capital Partners, managing partner; chief investment officer 
 C. Steven Duncker0.325% New York Racing Association, chairman 
(produced Hollywood movies, including the 1987 film "Firehouse," which featured a young Julia Roberts) Carlos A. Cordeiro0.525% multiple positions
(vice chairman of U.S. Soccer; director of BHP Billiton; Goldman advisory director) Chansoo Joung0.200% multiple positions
(senior adviser to Warburg Pincus; director of Apache, an oil and gas exploration company) Charles B. Seelig Jr.0.525% multiple positions
(partner and managing director at Dune Capital Management; director of Endeavor Global, a nonprofit organization) Christian J. Siva-Jothy0.200% multiple positions
(private investor; head of Righ Foundation) Christopher A. Cole0.600% Goldman Sachs, chairman of investment banking
 Christopher G. French0.200% Goldman Sachs, head of private wealth management for Europe, Middle East, Africa and Latin America
 Christopher J. Carrera0.200% Carrera-Willowbridge Capital, president
 Claudio Costamagna0.200% multiple positions
(director at a number of companies, including Luxottica and Bulgari) Cody J Smith0.400% Claremont McKenna University, member of the Financial Economics Institute's board of advisers
 Connie K. Duckworth0.425% Arzu, founder; chief executive at the nonprofit organization
(director at several companies, including Steel Case) Daniel M. Neidich0.900% Dune Real Estate Partners, chief executive
 Daniel W. Stanton0.525% Samson Capital Advisors, founding principal
 Danny O. Yee0.425% Aktis Capital Advisory, co-founder; partner
(director at First American International Bank and PanAsian) David A. Dechman0.200% Summit Rock Advisors, chief executive
 David A. Viniar0.650% Goldman Sachs, chief financial officer
 David B. Ford0.725% New School University, vice chairman
(director of several nonprofit organizations) David B. Heller0.375% Goldman Sachs, global co-head of the securities division
 David G. Lambert0.250% retired
 David J. Mastrocola0.200% multiple positions
(lead director at Cooper-Standard Holdings, an auto-parts supplier; trustee for Save the Children Federation) David L. Henle0.425% DLH Capital Management, managing member
 David M. Baum0.200% Golf Odyssey and Golf Vacation Insider, owner of the newsletters
 David W. Blood0.600% Generation Investment Management, co-founder; managing partner
(founded the company with former Vice President Al Gore) Dinakar Singh0.200% TPG-Axon, co-founder
 Donald C. Opatrny Jr.0.600% Retired
(involved in several nonprofit organizations, including the board of trustees at Cornell University) Donald F. Textor0.400% Dorset Energy Fund, portfolio manager 
 Douglas W. Kimmelman0.325% Energy Capital Partners, senior partner 
 E. Gerald Corrigan0.525% Goldman Sachs, chairman of Goldman Sachs Bank USA
 E. Scott Mead0.525% Richmond Park Partners, founding partner of the London-based merchant bank
 Edward A. Mul0.475% Silver Point Capital, co-founder; chief executive; portfolio manager
 Edward C. Forst0.200% Goldman Sachs, global co-head of investment management
 Eff W. Martin0.650% multiple positions
(charity work; founding partner at Anthos Capital) Emmanuel Roman0.200% Man Group, chief operating officer 
 Eric M. Mindich0.600% Eton Park Capital Management, co-founder 
 Eric P. Grubman0.325% National Football League, executive vice president of business operations and finance 
 Eric S. Schwartz0.600% Private investor
(chairman of Securing America's Future Energy, a policy organization) Erland S. Karlsson0.325% Eton Park Capital Management, co-founder
 Esta E. Stecher0.425% Goldman Sachs, co-general counsel
 Francis J. Ingrassia0.325% Clever Devices, chief executive; president of the transit technology company
 Frank L. Coulson Jr.0.475% Goldman Sachs, senior corporate bond salesman
 Fredric E. Steck0.400% Fredric E. Steck Family Foundation
 Gary D. Cohn0.600% Goldman Sachs, chief operating officer; president
 Gary W. Williams0.425% involved in multiple charities
 Gavyn Davies0.725% multiple positions
(former chairman of the BBC; chairman and co-founder of Fulcrum Asset Management) Gene T. Sykes0.725% Goldman Sachs, co-chairman, global mergers and acquisitions; chairman of global technology, media and telecommunications
 Geoffrey T. Grant0.325% Grant Capital Partners, founder
 George H. Walker0.200% Neuberger Berman, chairman; chief executive
 George W. Wellde Jr.0.550% multiple positions
(director Fortress Investment Group; chairman of the Board of Trustees at University of Richmond) Girish V. Reddy0.250% Prisma Capital Partners, co-founder; managing partner
 Glenn P. Earle0.325% Goldman Sachs, chief operating officer for Europe, Middle East and Africa; head of operations, technology, finance and services for Europe 
 Gordon E. DyalNot available Goldman Sachs, global head of mergers and acquisitions
 Greg M. Ostroff0.200% retired
 Gregory H. Zehner0.325% writer
(living in Utah and writing a book on Christianity; former associate pastor at Grace Community church in New Canaan, Conn.) Gregory K. Palm0.600% Goldman Sachs, general counsel
 Henry Cornell0.475% Goldman Sachs, managing director, merchant banking
 Henry M. Paulson Jr.1.250% former Treasury secretary
 Howard A. Silverstein0.475% Goldman Sachs, chairman of the financial institutions group
 Howard B. Schiller0.375% Retired
(private investor; involved in multiple nonprofit organizations) Hsueh J. Sung0.200% Vaucluse Capital Management, founder
 J. David Rogers0.725% J.D. Capital Management, founder
 J. Michael Evans0.600% Goldman Sachs, vice chairman; chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia; global head of growth markets
 Jacob D. Goldfield0.825% J. Goldfield & Co., portfolio manager
 Jacquelyn M. Hoffman-Zehner0.250% Women Moving Millions, co-chairwoman
 James M. Sheridan0.325% private investor
 James P. Riley Jr.0.650% Adelphi University, senior adviser
 Jeffrey B. Goldenberg0.200% Goldman Sachs, director, portfolio strategy for private wealth management 
 Jide J. Zeitlin0.325% multiple positions
(director of Affiliated Managers Group, an investment firm; director of Coach, the retailer) Jim O'Neill0.550% Goldman Sachs, chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management
 John A. Thain1.050% CIT Group, chairman; chief executive
(former chief executive of the New York Stock Exchange; former chief executive of Merrill Lynch who brokered the firm's sale to Bank of America during the financial crisis) John C. "Jack" Ryan0.325% Triple Tree Capital, managing director
(ran for United States Senate in Illinois, withdrew after the disclosure of child custody papers created an uproar) John E. Urban0.200% Urban Capital, president
 John J. Powers0.550% Goldman advisory director
 John L. Thornton1.050% Tsinghua University, professor
(director at Ford Motor and HSBC) John L. Townsend III0.525% Tiger Management, managing partner; chief operating officer
(senior adviser at Stone Point) John O. Downing0.525% CDK Group, founding Member; principal 
 John P. McNulty0.900% Deceased
 John R. Tormondsen0.325% TORMAR Associates, principal 
 John S. Weinberg0.725% Goldman Sachs, vice chairman; co-head of investment banking
 Jon Winkelried0.825% private investor
(spends time on his ranch, Marvine Ranch, in Meeker, Colo.) Jon S. Corzine1.250% MF Global, chairman; chief executive
 Jonathan L. Kolatch0.325% Redwood Capital Management, founder; principal
 Jonathan M. Lopatin0.400% not-so-simple productions, founder of the documentary film company focusing on Jewish educational films
(on the board of the Jewish Theological Seminary) Jonathan R. Aisbitt0.525% Man Group, chairman
 Jonathan S. Savitz0.200% Greywolf Capital Management, co-founder; partner
 Jonathan S. Sobel0.200% private investor
 Joseph Sassoon0.400% ACP Partners; Georgetown University, founding partner
(adjunct professor at Georgetown University) Joseph D. Gatto0.475% Barclays, chairman of investment banking for the Americas
 Joseph D. Gutman0.325% Grosvenor Capital Management, managing director of fund of funds 
 Joseph Della Rosa0.475% Northview Group, president
 Joseph H. Gleberman0.600% Goldman Sachs, managing director, merchant banking 
 Joseph R. Zimmel0.525% multiple positions
(director of FactSet Research Systems; director CenturyLink Communications; private investor) Karsten N. Moller0.325% Retired
(former executive vice president and head of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association for Europe and Asia) Kendrick R. Wilson III0.525% BlackRock, vice chairman
(served as an adviser to Henry M. Paulson Jr. when he was Treasury secretary) Kevin W. Kennedy0.650% Goldman Sachs, head of the Latin American Group
 Kipp M. Nelson0.325% Flashlight Films, partner at the Los Angeles-based investment fund that focuses on developing scripts and producing motion pictures
(trustee and board member at the United States Ski and Snowboard Association) Lawrence H. Linden0.525% multiple positions
(founder and trustee of the Linden Trust for Conservation; co-chairman of the World Wildlife Fund; director of TIAA-CREF) Lawrence R. Buchalter0.325% Luxor Capital Group, president
 Lawton W. Fitt0.475% multiple positions
(director at multiple companies, including Thomson Reuters) Lee G. Vance0.650% novelist
 Leslie C. Tortora0.650% Tortora Sillcox Family Foundation
 Lloyd C. Blankfein0.900% Goldman Sachs, chairman; chief executive
 M. Roch Hillenbrand0.200% Stony Brook Investments, managing director 
 Malcolm B. Turnbull0.200% Australian Parliament, member for Wentworth
 Marc A. Spilker0.325% Apollo Global Management, president
 Mark Schwartz0.825% Mission Point Capital Partners, co-founder; chairman
 Mark A. Zurack0.400% Columbia University and Cornell University, professor
 Mark R. Tercek0.375% The Nature Conservancy, chief executive; president
 Mary Ann Casati0.200% Circle Financial Group, founding partner
 Mary C. Henry0.325% FirstRain, director of the technology company
(involved in nonprofit organizations, including the Clinton Global Initiative) Masanori Mochida0.600% Goldman Sachs, president of Goldman Sachs Japan
 Matthew G. L'Heureux0.200% retired
 Michael A. Price0.200% Empyrean Capital Partners, co-founder; chief executive
 Michael D. Ryan0.200% MDR CapitalManagement, founder; chief investment officer
(board member at the Henry Street Settlement, a nonprofit organization) Michael E. Novogratz0.200% Fortress Investment Group, principal; director
 Michael G. Rantz0.425% retired 
 Michael J. Carr0.200% Goldman Sachs, co-head of mergers and acquisitions for the Americas
 Michael J. Zamkow0.525% retired
(private investor; involved in various nonprofit organizations) Michael P. Mortara0.900% Deceased
 Michael R. Lynch0.525% JPMorgan Chase, vice chairman of investment banking
 Michael S. Rubinoff0.200% Bank of America, co-head of global corporate and investment banking
 Michael S. Sherwood0.550% Goldman Sachs, vice chairman; chairman of Goldman Sachs International
 Milton R. Berlinski0.375% Goldman Sachs, global head of financial sponsors coverage group
 Muneer A. Satter0.325% Goldman Sachs, co-head of principal debt group; global head of mezzanine funds in the principal investment area
 Nomi P. Ghez0.400% Circle Financial Group, founding partner
(member of the New York University's Stern Board of Overseers) Patrick J. Ward0.825% Goldman advisory director
 Paul C. Deighton0.325% London Organising Committee of the Olympic Games, chief executive
 Paul M. Achleitner0.600% Allianz SE, member of the board of management
(director at multiple companies, including Bayer, the pharmaceutical company, and the carmaker Daimler) Paul S. Efron0.200% Pomona College, chairman of the board of trustees at the school in Claremont, Calif.
(Goldman advisory director) Peter Savitz0.325% private investor
(involved in a multiple nonprofit organizations) Peter A. Weinberg0.825% Perella & Weinberg, co-founder 
 Peter C. Gerhard0.600% G Capital, founder
 Peter D. Kiernan III0.425% Kiernan Ventures, chief executive 
(chairman of the Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation) Peter G.C. Mallinson0.475% CDK Group, principal; head of a London affiliate, CDK Investments
(chairman of the Tennis and Rackets Association, a nonprofit organization; vice president, Save the Children UK) Peter L. Briger Jr.0.375% Fortress Investment Group, co-chairman of the board of directors
 Peter S. Kraus0.600% Alliance Bernstein, chairman; chief executive
 Philip D. Murphy0.825% United States government, ambassador to Germany
(former national finance chairman of the Democratic National Committee) Philip M. Darivoff0.200% University of Pennsylvania, chairman of the board of overseers for the University of Pennsylvania Center for Advanced Judaic Studies; member of the Wharton School board of overseers
 Pieter Maarten Feenstra0.200% Aletra Capital Partners, managing director 
 Ralph F. Rosenberg0.200% Kohlberg Kravis & Roberts, head of the real estate team 
 Randolph L. Cowen0.325% EMC, director 
 Reuben Jeffery III0.525% Rockefeller Financial, chief executive
(former United States undersecretary for economic, energy and agricultural affairs; former chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission) Richard A. Friedman0.900% Goldman Sachs, head of merchant banking
 Richard A. Sapp0.650% private investor
(member of Stanford's board of trustees) Richard E. Witten0.650% multiple positions
(senior managing director of the Orienta Group; managing member of RSW Capital Management; and a trustee of Columbia University) Richard G. Sherlund0.475% Nomura, head of the technology research team
 Richard J. Bronks0.200% Teekay Tankers, director 
 Richard J. Gnodde0.200% Goldman Sachs, co-chief executive of Goldman Sachs International
 Richard M. Ruzika0.200% retired
 Richard S. Sharp0.550% private investor
 Robert Litterman0.475% multiple positions
(director of the World Wildlife Foundation; executive editor of the Financial Analysts Journal; a partner at the hedge fund Kepos Capital) Robert B. Morris III0.725% private investor
(member of the advisory board of the Presidio Group, a financial firm) Robert B. Tudor III0.200% Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co., chairman; chief executive
 Robert E. Higgins0.725% Goldman advisory director
 Robert H. Litzenberger0.200% multiple positions
(director at RGM Advisors, a high-frequency trading firm; director at OpHedge, which provides back-office services to hedge funds) Robert J. Hurst1.100% Crestview Partners, partner
 Robert J. Katz0.725% multiple positions
(vice chairman of the board of trustees at Cornell University; chairman of the dean's advisory board at Harvard Law School; involved in several charitable foundations) Robert J. O'Shea0.600% Silver Point Capital, co-founder; chairman 
 Robert J. Pace0.200% Robert Half International, director of the staffing company
(chairman of the advisory board for the Salvation Army) Robert K. Steel0.900% New York City, deputy mayor for economic development
(undersecretary at the Treasury Department from 2007 to 2008) Robert S. Harrison0.375% Clinton Global Initiative, chief executive
(chairman of board of trustees at Cornell University) Robert S. Kaplan0.825% multiple positions
(professor at Harvard Business School; director of State Street; senior adviser to Indaba Capital Management; advisory director of Berkshire Partners; chairman of the investment advisory committee at Google) Robert V. Delaney0.475% Crestview Partners, partner 
 Robin Chemers Neustein0.650% Lightfighter Trust, founder; trustee; chief investment officer at the nonprofit organization, which supports soldiers with combat trauma
 Ron E. Beller0.375% Branch Hill Capital, co-founder 
 Ronald G. Marks0.325% Tormar Associates, founding partner of the trading and private equity firm
 Sanjeev K. Mehra0.200% Goldman Sachs, managing director in the principal investment area
 Scott B. Kapnick0.600% Highbridge Capital Management, managing partner 
 Scott M. Pinkus0.600% retired
 Scott S. Prince0.200% SkyBridge Capital, managing partner
 Sharmin Mossavar-Rahmani0.650% Goldman Sachs, chief investment officer, private wealth management
 Simon M. Robertson0.525% multiple positions
(non-executive chairman of Rolls Royce; non-executive deputy chairman of HSBC; non-executive director of The Economist; received knighthood from the Queen of England) Sir Peter D. Sutherland0.525% multiple positions
(former chairman of BP; former attorney general of Ireland; chairman of the London School of Economics; and chairman of Goldman Sachs International) Stefan J. Jentzsch0.200% Perella Weinberg Partners, partner
 Stephen D. Quinn0.400% multiple positions
(director of Group 1 Automotive; director of Zions Bancorporation) Steven J. Wisch0.325% multiple positions
(co-founder and managing partner at India Equity Partners, a private equity fund; co-founder and managing director of IREO, an Indian real estate development fund; director at Seacor Holdings) Steven M. Heller0.825% CODA Holdings, executive chairman of electric-vehicle maker
 Steven M. Shafran0.250% Georgetown University, adjunct professor at the McDonough School of Business
(senior adviser to former Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and the current one, Timothy F. Geithner) Steven T. Mnuchin0.600% OneWest Bank, co-founder; chairman
 Stuart M. Rothenberg0.375% retired
(retired private investor; involved in several nonprofit organizations) Suzanne M. Nora Johnson0.525% multiple positions
(director at American International Group, the insurer; director at the drug maker Pfizer) Sylvain M. Hefes0.600% multiple positions
(senior adviser at NM Rothschild & Sons; director at NYSE Euronext) T. Willem Mesdag0.400% Red Mountain Capital Partners, founder; managing partner
(director at 3i Group, an investment firm) Terence M. O'Toole0.650% Tinicum Capital Partners II, co-managing partner
 Thomas B. Walker III0.650% private investor
 Thomas D. Lasersohn0.200% private investor
 Thomas E. Tuft0.725% Lazard, chairman of Global Capital Markets Advisory; vice chairman of United States investment banking 
 Thomas J. Healey0.425% multiple positions
(chairman of the Rockefeller Foundation Investment Committee; managing partner of Healey Development, his family trust) Thomas K. Montag0.600% Bank of America, president of global banking and markets
 Thomas S. Murphy Jr.0.200% Crestview Partners, co-founder 
(started Crestview in 2004 with Barry Volpert, another member of the original class of partners) Timothy C. Plaut0.325% retired
 Timothy D. Dattels0.325% TPG Capital, partner 
 Timothy J. Ingrassia0.200% Goldman Sachs, co-chairman, mergers and acquisitions
 Timothy J. O'Neill0.525% Goldman Sachs, co-head, investment management division
 Tracy R. Wolstencroft0.475% Goldman advisory director
 Tsutomu Sato0.200% independent economist
 W. Mark Evans0.825% Balderton Capital Management, general partner
 Wayne L. Moore0.200% private investor
 Wiet H. Pot0.600% IMC Group, co-chief executive of the financial firm
 Yasuyo Yamazaki0.200% Sun Based Economy Association, president 
 Yoel Zaoui0.200% Goldman Sachs, head of investment banking for Europe, Middle East and Africa 
 Zachariah Cobrinik0.400% retired
Source: New York Times and FootnotedNote: The information in the table is based on the most recent available data for the partnership class at Goldman's I.P.O.

        
Goldman Sachs Promotes Its Chief of Staff
        
A Rare Tarnish on Goldman's Reputation

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SPORTS BUSINESS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); OLYMPICS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); VETERANS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); GOVERNORS (65%); SOCCER (64%); RELIGION (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%) Goldman Sachs; Henry Paulson; John Thain; John Thornton; Jon Corzine; Corzine, Jon S; Paulson, Henry M Jr; Thain, John A; Thornton, John; Initial Public Offerings; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); CIT GROUP INC (57%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); CIT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (57%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (57%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%)

PERSON: JOHN THAIN (93%); HENRY PAULSON (90%); JON CORZINE (89%) Corzine, Jon S; Paulson, Henry M Jr; Thain, John A; Thornton, John

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%); AUSTRIA (52%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012



531 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1776 words

HEADLINE: Small-Town Arenas, Big Financial Problems

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
RIO RANCHO, N.M. -- The plan sounded great during the real estate boom: build a midsize arena, stuff it with sports, music acts and monster trucks and create a centerpiece for the new city center being developed on a dusty mesa here, 20 miles north of downtown Albuquerque.
But trouble started almost from the day the doors of Santa Ana Star Center opened in 2006. Global Entertainment, the company hired to build and manage the arena, failed to book enough events, and the minor league hockey team it recruited folded. Attendance was light because of high ticket prices and the arena's remote location. Unrealistic sales targets and high turnover among the arena's staff added to the problems.
The arena, which Global Entertainment said would be profitable in a year, has lost so much money that Rio Rancho has had to spend millions of dollars each year to keep it afloat. The city fired Global Entertainment in 2009 and sued it to recoup hundreds of thousands of dollars in unpaid bills. 
A new arena manager has brought in more business, but the losses have continued to mount, eating into the city's already tight budget and pushing lawmakers to eliminate jobs and cut costs, including asking police officers to buy their own practice ammunition.
''If you look at the numbers that Global Entertainment presented to us, it was really, really questionable then, let alone during a recession,'' said James C. Jimenez, the city manager in Rio Rancho, who was hired after the arena foundered. ''If we didn't have to allocate the money for debt service, our employees would have had raises and our budget would be in a better position.''
Rio Rancho is not alone in trying to salvage an arena opened by a growth-hungry town smitten with sports. Global Entertainment, based in Tempe, Ariz., persuaded nine other cities, including Youngstown, Ohio; Hidalgo, Tex.; and Wenatchee, Wash., that it could build them an arena, sell everything from tickets to hot dogs, and book enough events to turn a profit. Yet in most cases, Global failed to meet its financial projections and was replaced, leaving the cities to pay for expensive arenas that they often have had no experience running.
In many ways, the arenas were another creation -- and victim -- of the real estate bubble. But while bargain hunters buy foreclosed homes and governments support insolvent banks, there are few natural buyers for arenas that are unlikely to generate enough money to pay their operating costs, let alone the tens of millions of dollars spent to build them.
And although larger cities often have more wherewithal to absorb these kinds of long-term obligations, bedroom communities like Rio Rancho (population 87,000) have less leeway because they have smaller budgets.
So the towns are not just stuck with buyer's remorse, but also growing financial headaches.
This, of course, was not anticipated when plans for Santa Ana Star Center were taking shape almost a decade ago. Rio Rancho was flush because of a boom in home building, a growing Intel chip factory and several new call centers. But because the city had too few stores, residents shopped in Albuquerque, leaving their retail dollars there, a problem in a state where sales taxes account for a large part of municipal revenue.
So Jim Owen, the mayor of Rio Rancho at the time, conceived of a new city center in a distant part of town away from Albuquerque. It would be anchored by city hall and the arena and would include new stores that would generate sales tax revenue that would be kept in the city.
Coyotes, Not Businesses
Yet the city center, with its windswept views of the Sandia Mountains, remains mostly a concept. Other than city hall and the arena, there are only a few buildings for offices and for the University of New Mexico West campus and Central New Mexico Community College. Coyotes routinely run through the parking lots.
The collapse of the real estate market undoubtedly helped stall the development. But Owen also blames his successor and developers for undoing his work. The arena, he said, remains a good idea in the context of the larger development.
''The arena was one piece to get the city center going,'' he said. ''We knew it was difficult to start with, and we knew we would subsidize it for a while. But a hundred years from now, people will look back and say, 'Gee, this was planned.' ''
According to several former employees at Global Entertainment, however, Santa Ana Star Center was flawed from the outset. Like other arenas that Global built, Star Center, with 6,500 seats, was too small to attract big-name bands yet too big for up-and-coming acts, they say. The Star Center also competes with sites in Albuquerque, including theaters run by Native American tribes that often book music acts as loss leaders to draw gamblers to their casinos.
''Global's thrust is the smaller markets and 6,000-seat buildings, which are a funny size for the touring industry,'' said Doug Priestap, the first ticket manager at the arena in Rio Rancho. ''Global got in way over its head. But these small towns, they get stars in their eyes and want to have an arena.''
Global Entertainment also owns the Central Hockey League and put its teams in many of the arenas. But hockey has been a hard sell in places like Rio Rancho, where the Scorpions of the C.H.L. failed in 2009. Attendance to see N.B.A. Development League teams has been up and down. The owners of the Thunderbirds, who played in Rio Rancho this season, are reportedly seeking additional investors.
Quickly a Money Loser
The arena was a money loser from the beginning. It lost $241,000 in its first nine months, ending in mid-2007, and millions of dollars since. Rio Rancho expects to pay $3.6 million this year to keep the arena running and to pay for its bonds, money that was supposed to be covered by profits from the arena.
The arena now consumes nearly 7 percent of the city's $53.8 million budget, and workers have been furloughed, spending on parks has been curtailed and a reserve fund has been drawn down. In January, Jimenez, the city manager, asked for an additional $550,000 for arena upkeep and repairs, including refinishing the basketball court and buying new glass for the hockey rink.
The city is also suing Global Entertainment to recoup more than $300,000 that it claims the company owes dozens of local businesses that provided services at the arena. Gary Williams, who owns a video-production company in Albuquerque named in the suit, said he was owed $6,000 for work he did at hockey games.
''I gave up after a year of trying,'' Williams said of his attempts to be paid. ''I turned around and paid all my employees out of my pocket. It's a live-and-learn experience.''
Controversy is not new in Rio Rancho. The city became nationally known in the 1970s when four executives from the Amrep Corporation were convicted of mail and land fraud for their role selling patches of desert in Rio Rancho to residents of New York and elsewhere. Buyers accused Amrep of using high-pressure techniques to sell lots that, they learned, had little resale value.
For years, Rio Rancho residents, including many from the East Coast who wanted to live more cheaply and quietly, resisted incorporating the town. Rio Rancho was so off the beaten track that the F.B.I. reportedly located some members of its witness protection program there.
But as the city grew, its aspirations came to include an arena. The same was true of in Wenatchee, halfway between Seattle and Spokane, where Global Entertainment also built an arena. That arena, home to the Wenatchee Wild of the North American Hockey League and the Wenatchee Valley Venom of the Indoor Football League, has also failed to turn a profit, and roughly 15 percent of the city's $22 million budget is devoted to paying off the bonds for Town Toyota Center. City jobs have been eliminated, overtime cut and street cleaning and hours at the public pool scaled back.
''We're down to muscle and bone now,'' said Jim Bailey, a city council member in Wenatchee. ''Unless we can generate new income somewhere, it's going to be layoffs next.''
Problems With Bonds
Complicating matters, the collapse of the financial markets in 2008 meant that bonds could not be issued to pay for the Wenatchee arena. So a three-year loan that comes due in December, with the city as guarantor, was taken out. The city is now racing to sell bonds before the loan expires but is having difficulty because the arena can barely cover expenses.
''If they can't get bonds, that would mean default, and then everyone starts suing everyone,'' Bailey said.
In Prescott Valley, Ariz., about 90 miles north of Phoenix, Global Entertainment built and still runs Tim's Toyota Center. But several investors who bought some of the $35 million in bonds issued to pay for the arena have sued the company and its top executives, the city and its underwriter, Wells Fargo, alleging that they ignored pessimistic feasibility studies and knowingly issued overly optimistic growth forecasts so they could win higher bond ratings.
Forecasts in the bond prospectus estimated that 480,000 people a year would attend events at the arena, which opened in November 2006. Actual attendance was closer to 200,000. Teams that play there include the Arizona Sundogs of the C.H.L. and the Arizona Adrenaline of the Indoor Football League. Global Entertainment also scheduled about 70 events a year, half as many as projected. The finances were in such disarray that Fitch Ratings dropped its ratings on the bonds.
Developer Cites Economy
Global Entertainment blames the recession for the troubles at the arenas it built, and the company more broadly. ''We continue to be challenged significantly by the economy,'' Richard Kozuback, its president, wrote in its most recent earnings filing.
Indeed, revenue fell 52 percent in the three months that ended Feb. 28, to $1.6 million, as Global exited the food-service business and arena-management fees dried up. The company said it had bought insurance for its executives to protect against any court claims, and had sought additional loans.
Global Entertainment's stock price, which once traded as high as $9, is now worth as little as a nickel a share.
But for many of the cities that bought Global Entertainment's sales pitch, the company's fate is a footnote in their larger struggle to manage and pay for arenas that many people now think should never have been built.
''You sit back and wonder how they missed this,'' Bailey, the Wenatchee councilman, said of his predecessors who approved the arena. ''Even in good times, it wouldn't have penciled out, and then we got hit by the perfect storm during the economic downturn.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Santa Ana Star Center, in a sparsely developed area, has cost Rio Rancho, N.M., millions. (B12)
James Jimenez, the city manager for Rio Rancho, said the city's arena was financially questionable from the outset. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICK SCIBELLI JR. FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The N.B.A. Development League's New Mexico Thunderbirds have had uneven support at Santa Ana Star Center in Rio Rancho. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAKE SCHOELLKOPF/NBAE, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (B14) CHART: Unfulfilled Promises: Global Entertainment, based in Tempe, Ariz., worked with small cities across the country to build and operate arenas that were supposed to generate enough profits to pay for themselves and the bonds issued to pay for construction. Instead of becoming economic engines as hoped, many of the arenas have been money-losers, even after Global Entertainment has left town. (B14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CITIES (89%); BUDGETS (88%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); TICKET SALES (75%); ICE HOCKEY (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); BANK FAILURES (71%); SALES PLAN (69%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (90%) NEW MEXICO, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011



532 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2168 words

HEADLINE: Orchestras on Tour: Names Strike a False Note

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN; Michael Schwirtz provided reporting from Moscow, and Kathryn Shattuck provided research assistance from New York.

 BODY:
Every year foreign orchestras with exotic or impressive-sounding names crisscross the country. They follow grueling routes and play in arts centers, small theaters and school auditoriums in places like Pembroke, N.C., and Modesto, Calif.
But they are not always what they seem.
The Dublin Philharmonic that played two years ago in nearly 50 towns? Mostly Bulgarians. The Moscow State Radio Symphony Orchestra that toured the United States last year? Largely freelancers. The ''Tschaikowski'' St. Petersburg State Orchestra, which is scheduled for a major American tour next year? Even the man advertised as its principal guest conductor said he had never heard of it.
A close look at these groups shows a pattern of creative marketing -- even truth shading -- concerning credentials and identities. At the least, audiences often do not know what they are getting, even though visa regulations require the groups to be ''recognized internationally as outstanding'' and to have had three-quarters of the same players for at least a year. Many of these groups are in fact pickup ensembles or have little reputation, even in their home countries.
A major force in bringing in these orchestras is Columbia Artists Management Inc., one of the oldest and most prestigious classical music agencies. Its clients have included Vladimir Horowitz, Jascha Heifetz and Herbert von Karajan. 
The Columbia Artists executive behind many such tours is a senior vice president, Andrew S. Grossman, who acts as the tour producer. Mr. Grossman, 62, is an influential figure in the classical music business, as well as a lightning rod for strong emotions.
Former colleagues, competitors and contractors call him a shrewd businessman, both brilliant and capable of great charm, who can ride his employees hard. These people also pointed to what appears to be a pattern of misleading publicity photos, altered program biographies and last-minute substitutions.
Mr. Grossman did not respond to requests for comment. In a telephone interview, Ronald A. Wilford, Columbia's chairman, denied that misrepresentations had occurred, saying that the agency relied on the orchestras it brings in for information about their musicians. He defended Mr. Grossman, calling him a tough man in a hard business.
''He knows how to do it better than everyone,'' Mr. Wilford said.
''We haven't been dishonest that I'm aware of,'' he said. Orchestras typically have shifting personnel in a world of musicians who easily cross borders, he added.
''It's a little bit of a naive position to take that there couldn't be international players in an orchestra,'' he said. ''All of this is quite silly. We bring institutions that are fully formed.''
But more important, the agency argued, the orchestras provide live classical music at affordable cost to small cities and towns spurned by the major orchestras. ''We go to these communities that very much want this and are also struggling with the economic realities,'' said Tim Fox, the president of Columbia Artists Management. ''It should be a celebration.''
The local concert presenters like the cachet of foreign names and the small price tags, which are on average less than half of the fees of major international orchestras, like the Vienna Philharmonic or the London Symphony. Those fees can top $100,000 a concert.
And it is true that an orchestra's makeup is not necessarily a comment on quality. The ''Dubliners'' received good reviews from critics and presenters two years ago, although the Moscow orchestra, as heard last year at a performance in the Bronx, would have had trouble matching up to a midlevel conservatory orchestra.
Eric Amada, a former Columbia employee who now runs Arts Management Associates, a booking agency and sometime rival, said, ''Most of these presenters are completely fooled,'' and so, by extension, are their audiences. ''It's just like, 'Teflon Andrew.' ''
While smaller, lesser-known foreign orchestras can make important contributions to local cultural life, they also bring surprises.
For Jane Schumacher, the surprise came on Jan. 23, 2009, when the Dublin Philharmonic played a concert at the Etherredge Center for the Performing Arts, where she is executive director, at the University of South Carolina, Aiken. Going backstage before the concert to meet the musicians, she said, she heard them speaking several languages. None had an Irish lilt.
''I remember going back there, joking, and saying, 'Is there actually anybody from Ireland?,' '' she said. ''I got stares, because they didn't know what I was saying.'' Only two of the orchestra members came from Ireland, orchestra officials later acknowledged. The rest were mainly from Bulgaria and a smattering of other countries.
Ms. Schumacher said she was troubled by the unexpected roster. ''You know you're taking a chance on misrepresenting to an audience,'' Ms. Schumacher said. ''This town is small but very educated, very cosmopolitan.''
The tour received endorsements from the president of Ireland, Mary McAleese, and from American and Irish ambassadors. The orchestra brought three classical programs and an ''Irish spectacular'' of traditional music.
To gain visas, Columbia Artists had to give its application first to the American Federation of Musicians for approval. With the O.K. in hand, it submitted the paperwork to the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, which says it relies on such union sign-offs regarding an orchestra's bona fides in approving performance visas. In practice, the union said, its objections have little force. The State Department has the final say in issuing visas.
Columbia's supporting evidence to the federation included a roster of 75 musicians, nearly all said to be Irish citizens, except for three Bulgarians and four people from Britain. It also listed their length of service, to fulfill the one-year minimum for 75 percent of the members.
But a very different group was approved for visas, according to a list issued by the immigration service. Most of those musicians were Bulgarians, and only 19 people out of 75 came from the original orchestra roster given to the union. In the end, after last-minute substitutions, only two Irish people ended up touring as members of the Dublin Philharmonic, according to orchestra officials.
The contractor for the tour, Gavin O'Sullivan, a 20-year veteran of the Irish music scene, said he had never heard of most of the Irish names on the orchestra list given to the musicians' union and had no idea where it came from.
Mr. Wilford, the chairman of Columbia, said that whatever list the agency had submitted came from the Dublin Philharmonic. ''We don't make it up,'' he added. Besides, he said: ''We don't say in our contract, 'You've got to have predominantly Irish players.' We don't get into this nationality stuff.''
Mr. Fox, the agency's president, said that the roster sent to the musicians' union was the same one approved by immigration officials.
''What they sent to us was false information,'' said George Fiddler, a federation contract administrator. ''This is done to mislead.''
The immigration service said it could not comment on an individual case. ''We are always concerned about ways that people could potentially take advantage of the system,'' said a spokesman, Christopher Bentley. Applicants are legally bound to be truthful in the information they present, he said.
The player makeup of the Dublin Philharmonic -- which was first disclosed by The Irish Times -- ultimately does not matter, said Derek Gleeson, the orchestra's music director, who lives in Culver City, Calif., and has worked often in Bulgaria.
He pointed out that his tour had featured all Irish soloists, composers and conductors. The difficult economy in 2008 made it too expensive to hire Irish musicians, he said, so he turned to the Bulgarians. A tour of China last summer was nearly all Irish, he said. (Yet only five of the same names appeared on the roster given to the federation for the 2009 United States tour.) He acknowledged that despite the Dublin Philharmonic's name, it has played only a half-dozen or so concerts in Ireland since its founding in 1997.
''The orchestra is the organization who hires the musicians,'' Mr. Gleeson said. ''Musicians come and go.''
Industry figures critical of the one-night-stand tours say that Columbia Artists Management reaps big profits.
A contract to bring the Opole, Philharmonic of Poland, a lower-tier Polish orchestra, this winter listed an average fee from presenters of $41,543 per concert paid to Columbia Artists, or $1.9 million in total for 46 concerts. Columbia Artists was listed as paying the 90 musicians -- including the more highly paid conductors and soloists -- and other personnel a total of $8,500 per concert, or a total of about $390,000 for the tour. The orchestra paid its own air fare. Out of the remaining $1.5 million paid to Columbia, the agency covered domestic travel, lodging and promotion, taking in the rest. The contract, a copy of which was provided by the American Federation of Musicians, allowed the orchestra to play up to 15 performances on consecutive days and travel 350 miles by bus on the day of a performance.
''The audiences are being deceived,'' said Ray Hair, the musician federation president. ''They believe they're buying a ticket to some ensemble that has a legitimate pedigree. But the ensemble does not have that. It's a pickup orchestra of unemployed East European musicians that is willing to work for substandard wages.''
Mr. Wilford called the tours a ''marginal business'' with high risk and rejected the idea that the musicians were being exploited. Indeed, in interviews some have said they were happy for the work and the chance to see the United States. The pay scale is what allows the tours to happen, Mr. Wilford said.
''The A.F. of M., they are for higher prices, higher fees and less work,'' he added, referring to the federation. He declined to release financial figures.
Presenters have also complained about what they called misleading claims about several dance companies Mr. Grossman has brought in, a charge the agency disputed. The complaints extend at least as far back as 1996, when Bolshoi Theater officials charged in a federal lawsuit that a group sponsored by Columbia Artists, the Stars of the Bolshoi Ballet, had no Bolshoi dancers. A judge ruled against the Bolshoi, and the agency says the case ended with no judgment against it.
Some presenters praise Mr. Grossman for providing good performances dependably. ''I'm very satisfied with what they represent,'' said Thomas G. Reynolds, director of arts programming at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va.
Mr. Reynolds has booked the ''Tschaikowski'' St. Petersburg State Orchestra on its tour next year and said he would be ''unhappy to learn'' that the agency's materials were misleading.
Yet that is what at least three Russian conductors have charged, including Yuri Temirkanov, one of Russia's most respected maestros and the music director of the St. Petersburg Philharmonic, an orchestra with a venerable history. Mr. Temirkanov said that photographs and video of the ''Tschaikowski'' orchestra on the Columbia Artists' Web site showed other orchestras, including his own. In fact, he said, there is no ''Tschaikowski'' orchestra. A spokesman for St. Petersburg's city culture committee said, ''Such a collective does not exist.''
One photograph was dropped after calls were made to Mr. Grossman's office about Mr. Temirkanov's complaint. (Mr. Wilford denied that the photograph was inaccurate, saying he had dropped it to avoid further upset.)
The page also listed Alexandre Pirojenko, who has a budding international career, as piano soloist for the tour, and Stanislav Kochanovsky, who leads the orchestra of Kislovodsk, in the Caucasus, as principal guest conductor. Mr. Pirojenko confirmed that he planned to tour the United States with Roman Leontiev, who is described as the music director of the ''Tschaikowski'' orchestra, but said he did not remember the ensemble's name.
Mr. Kochanovsky said he received a call about touring the United States from Yelena Kostychenko, a St. Petersburg music impresario. He assumed it would be with his regular ensemble. He sent in his biography, but nothing came of the invitation. Then he found his name and biography -- altered to say that he had conducted the orchestra he had never heard of -- on Columbia's Web site. (They were later dropped.)
In addition, he pointed out that a photograph purporting to show the ''Tschaikowski'' orchestra was of his Kislovodsk group, with its image, taken from a publicity picture, imposed on the background of a more opulent-looking hall.
Mr. Leontiev identified his orchestra manager as Ms. Kostychenko. They have both asserted that the orchestra exists and referred questions about publicity materials to the agency.
Members of the Moscow Radio Symphony that toured last year said most were students or freelancers hired for the occasion, a claim orchestra officials denied.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, the orchestra of Kislovodsk, from one of its publicity photographs. Near right, a photo of a hall from the Web site kmvphilharmonic.ru. Far right, a picture on the Web site of Columbia Artists Management on the page description for the ''Tschaikowski'' St. Petersburg State Orchestra. (A19) CHARTS: Countries of Birth: Number of people from each country approved by the government for Dublin Philharmonic tour, including soloists
 Number of people from each country submitted to American Federation of Musicians for approval (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); THEATER (90%); MUSIC (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (76%); CITIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

COMPANY: COLUMBIA ARTISTS MANAGEMENT LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS OF THE UNITED STATES & CANADA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); BULGARIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011



533 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: Global Warming

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The River Untamable'' (Week in Review, May 8): 
What will it take to convince people that the world's climate is changing and that we are causing it to change?
Will it be this latest flooding of the Mississippi River, brought about by record April rainfall in the Ohio River Valley and very high levels in other states, killing at least 18 people, flooding millions of acres of farmland, and causing untold misery and economic hardship?
Will it be that 90 cities in the United States and 19 countries around the world posted record-high temperatures in 2010? Or last year's historic heat waves, droughts and fires in Russia and flooding in Pakistan and Australia, which together killed an estimated 17,000 people?
The year 2010 was tied with 2005 as the warmest year for our planet on record, since global temperatures were first accurately measured in 1850. It was also the wettest.
There is no longer any serious debate among the world's leading scientists, including our own, that our excessive burning of fossil fuels is warming the Earth and resulting in extreme, wildly fluctuating and increasingly unstable changes to the world's climate: torrential rains and flooding and more severe storms in some areas, heat waves and droughts in others.
When will we wake up to the climate and public health catastrophe unfolding before our eyes and demand that our political leaders and representatives really do something to address it?
ERIC CHIVIAN Boston, May 12, 2011
The writer, a doctor, is director of the Center for Health and the Global Environment at Harvard Medical School.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); DROUGHT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) EARTH (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011



534 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: New York Looks Into Banks' Role In Fiscal Crisis

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
The New York attorney general has requested information and documents in recent weeks from three major Wall Street banks about their mortgage securities operations during the credit boom, indicating the existence of a new investigation into practices that contributed to billions in mortgage losses.
Officials in Eric T. Schneiderman's, office have also requested meetings with representatives from Bank of America, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, according to people briefed on the matter who were not authorized to speak publicly. The inquiry appears to be quite broad, with the attorney general's requests for information covering many aspects of the banks' loan pooling operations. They bundled thousands of home loans into securities that were then sold to investors such as pension funds, mutual funds and insurance companies. 
It is unclear which parts of the byzantine securitization process Mr. Schneiderman is focusing on. His spokesman said the attorney general would not comment on the investigation, which is in its early stages.
Several civil suits have been filed by federal and state regulators since the financial crisis erupted in 2008, some of which have generated settlements and fines, most prominently a $550 million deal between Goldman Sachs and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
But even more questions have been raised in private lawsuits filed against the banks by investors and others who say they were victimized by questionable securitization practices. Some litigants have contended, for example, that the banks dumped loans they knew to be troubled into securities and then misled investors about the quality of those underlying mortgages when selling the investments.
The possibility has also been raised that the banks did not disclose to mortgage insurers the risks in the instruments they were agreeing to insure against default. Another potential area of inquiry -- the billions of dollars in credit extended by Wall Street to aggressive mortgage lenders that allowed them to continue making questionable loans far longer than they otherwise could have done.
''Part of what prosecutors have the advantage of doing right now, here as elsewhere, is watching the civil suits play out as different parties fight over who bears the loss,'' said Daniel C. Richman, a professor of law at Columbia. ''That's a very productive source of information.''
Officials at Bank of America and Goldman Sachs declined to comment about the investigation; Morgan Stanley did not respond to a request for comment.
During the mortgage boom, Wall Street firms bundled hundreds of billions of dollars in home loans into securities that they sold profitably to investors. After the real estate bubble burst, the perception took hold that the securitization process as performed by the major investment banks contributed to the losses generated in the crisis.
Critics contend that Wall Street's securitization machine masked the existence of risky home loans and encouraged reckless lending because pooling the loans and selling them off allowed many participants to avoid responsibility for the losses that followed.
The requests for information by Mr. Schneiderman's office also seem to confirm that the New York attorney general is operating independently of peers from other states who are negotiating a broad settlement with large banks over foreclosure practices.
By opening a new inquiry into bank practices, Mr. Schneiderman has indicated his unwillingness to accept one of the settlement's terms proposed by financial institutions -- that is, a broad agreement by regulators not to conduct additional investigations into the banks' activities during the mortgage crisis. Mr. Schneiderman has said in recent weeks that signing such a release was unacceptable.
It is unclear whether Mr. Schneiderman's investigation will be pursued as a criminal or civil matter. In the last few months, the office's staff has been expanding. In March, Marc B. Minor, former head of the securities division for the New Jersey attorney general, was named bureau chief of the investor protection unit in the New York attorney general's office.
Early in the financial crisis, Andrew M. Cuomo, the governor of New York who preceded Mr. Schneiderman as attorney general, began investigating Wall Street's role in the debacle. But those inquiries did not result in any cases filed against the major banks. Nevertheless, some material turned over to Mr. Cuomo's investigators may turn out to be helpful to Mr. Schneiderman's inquiry.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eric T. Schneiderman, New York's attorney general, seems to be acting independently of efforts to seek a settlement with banks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES LEYNSE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); SECURITIZATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); LITIGATION (89%); INSURANCE (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PENSION FUNDS (74%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011



535 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Rise in Revenue Will Help Cut California's Deficit in Half, Its Governor Says

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
SACRAMENTO -- After months of doomsday scenarios and apocalyptic warnings about cuts to California schools, parks and the police, the news from Gov. Jerry Brown on Monday was nothing short of startling: California is now expected to see $6.6 billion more in revenue over the next two years than had been expected.
But Mr. Brown was careful not to make the news sound too good. The added revenue will eat into the budget deficit, but it is not nearly enough to erase it. So the state will still need to extend some taxes that were set to expire, he said, in order to deal with its ''wall of debt,'' and close a budget gap now estimated at $10.8 billion. 
However, the new revenue projections allowed the governor, in his revised budget proposal, to ease the state's tax bite and to restore some spending for public education, rather than present what many had expected: a draconian proposal for deeper and harsher budget cuts to close the state's huge budget gap.
No matter how good the news might be for the state financially, it certainly complicated Mr. Brown's life as he continued to insist that the state needed to extend expiring taxes. Even before Monday's development, when things had looked impossibly bleak, Mr. Brown had been struggling to win the four Republican votes he needed to get his tax plan to voters for their approval. Despite the higher projected revenues, he said he still hoped for a vote on his plan.
''Our finances were plunged into turmoil by the Great Recession and a decade of short-term fixes and fiscal gimmicks,'' Mr. Brown said. ''This is not the time to delay or evade. This is the time to put our finances in order.''
For the last several weeks, Republicans have been arguing that it is possible to pay for basic services without tax increases, and on Monday they were already using the higher revenue projections to buttress their position.
''Raising taxes only continues the spigot of spending,'' said Assemblyman Jim Nielsen, the top Republican on the budget committee.
The unexpected improvement in the fiscal picture was a result of rising incomes. California workers will make, on average, an additional $4,000 over the next two years, the state now estimates, which will mean more income taxes coming in.
Jay Chamberlain, the head of financial research for the state, said the increases came primarily from the top of the income spectrum, generally people who made at least $200,000. But Mr. Chamberlain said it was impossible to know precisely what had driven up their income. And a large portion of the increase came from the capital-gains tax, a volatile base that officials say is nearly impossible to predict.
''The upper incomes were hit first in the downturn and took a bigger hit, and they appear to be recovering faster,'' Mr. Chamberlain said. But he warned that it was hard to know how sustainable that income would be.
With an overall budget of nearly $85 billion, the revenue increase is a relatively small gain, said Jean Ross, the executive director of the California Budget Project, a nonpartisan group that tracks state spending.
''One of the virtues of the original budget was that there was some level of shared sacrifice,'' Ms. Ross said. ''But now, some businesses are going to come out ahead of where they were last year.''
With previous cuts and other changes, the updated budget reduces the deficit to $10.8 billion, less than half of what it was in January. Mr. Brown said he would restore $3 billion in spending on public education, but the figure is still billions lower than in previous years. And while he will continue to push voters to approve a package of tax extensions, he said the state needed $2.9 billion less in taxes than he had proposed in his original January budget.
He said that by 2015, the plan would pay off most of the nearly $35 billion in debt that California built up over the last decade.
Republicans have repeatedly balked at Mr. Brown's plan for a five-year extension of $11 billion in income, sales and vehicle taxes that were set to expire at the end of June and blocked his efforts to put the decision on the ballot in June.
The governor has backed off a plan to eliminate tax credits for businesses, a move that could appease some critics.
Mr. Brown could be using the tax incentives for businesses as a way to bring in more Republican votes. He also said on Monday that he would back a spending cap, something Republicans have pressed for. Acknowledging the hurdles he still faces, Mr. Brown told reporters he made some changes in the budget mainly because of the political realities. And he declined to lay out what an all-cuts budget might look like.
''I'm giving you the blueprint,'' he said. ''Now the other architects will start to screw it up.''
Last week, Republicans released a budget plan that they said would close the gap without new taxes, largely by cutting services to the poor and elderly, as well as by cutting state employees' pay. Democrats said the plan did not address looming gaps in coming years.
California's fiscal year ends on June 30. If the governor and the Legislature cannot broker a deal by then, the state could be forced to issue i.o.u.'s, as it did in 2009.
In March, the Legislature approved a partial budget plan that reduced the deficit to $15 billion, from $26.6 billion. Under the revised plan, California would also eliminate more than 40 state boards, commissions and task forces that Mr. Brown said were inefficient, eliminating about 5,500 jobs from the state payrolls.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Jerry Brown said more tax revenues than expected meant the state's deficit was smaller. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEN JAMES/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); BUDGET FORECASTS (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (60%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011



536 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; VIDEO GAME REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: 1947 Mystery That Matters Now

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL

 BODY:
For video games, the real world is the final frontier.
Most games have nothing to do with reality. When you're dealing with orcs or aliens, or even when you're pretending to be a special-forces commando, you've gone to a place completely divorced from the here and now.
That's fine. We're all entitled to some time away. But we've learned over eons that the narrative entertainments -- novels, plays, films, television shows -- that elicit deep emotional and intellectual engagement are those that speak directly to the circumstances of everyday life. And that's been hard for video games, both creatively and technically. The one company doing it at a high level is Rockstar Games. No one makes the real world virtual like Rockstar. 
We've seen it with the Grand Theft Auto series, and we saw it with last year's Red Dead Redemption. Now Rockstar has turned out its most pointed, and poignant, statement with L.A. Noire.
This game tells a deeply moving and relevant story that speaks to the player because it feels so possible. Grand Theft Auto is a sweeping, over-the-top satire on the modern world. L.A. Noire, by contrast, takes itself very seriously, but then it has a serious tale to tell.
Set for release on Tuesday for the PlayStation 3 and the Xbox 360, L.A. Noire begins in Los Angeles in January 1947, just before the infamous murder and mutilation of Elizabeth Short, nicknamed the Black Dahlia. Your character, a Los Angeles policeman named Cole Phelps, is a former Marine officer who won the Silver Star on Okinawa.
Detectives examine dead people, including dead children, so you do too. Soon, you're investigating a series of similarly gruesome murders in the wake of the Black Dahlia killing (which was never solved in the real world), and you eventually uncover a city-spanning conspiracy.
As you progress from the traffic department to homicide, vice and arson, you tackle 21 cases that should each take 60 to 90 minutes to complete your first time through. The gameplay is actually quite simple. You walk around crime scenes, waiting for your controller to buzz in your hands to tell you to pick up a clue. Then you interrogate witnesses and suspects, listening closely, watching their facial expressions and piecing together the clues to decide if they're telling the truth (and, more important, whether you have enough evidence to prove they're lying).
If you miss a clue or react incorrectly to an answer, that doesn't mean that you fail; it just means that the case may unfold differently. There are some action sequences, like chases and shootouts, but if you fail one of those a few times, the game just lets you skip past it, so those of slow reflex and clumsy thumb need have no fear.
Instead of action, the focus in L.A. Noire is squarely on basic storytelling elements like narrative, character, setting and plot: 322 actors delivered voice performances for the game, and their efforts are generally superb. The Rockstar hallmark -- gritty, believable, wry dialogue -- is on full display.
Yet none of Rockstar's previous games have been so emotionally powerful.
That's because the big theme here is the difficulty soldiers have in readjusting to civilian life and the profound social trauma that can result when that goes awry. As one of Phelps's partners remarks on the way to another murder scene, Los Angeles in 1947 is awash in young men who got used to killing every day in the war, then returned and were expected to take orders from their wives. Not all of them could.
As L.A. Noire unfolds, through flashbacks the game also tells the story of Phelps's own war history and his fraught relationship with the men under his command. Without giving away the plot, the stories of past and present end up colliding in spectacular, heartrending fashion. Like so many of his suspects, our hero has demons of his own, and like so many of his suspects, he does not handle them easily.
The accounts and effects of post-traumatic stress among World War II veterans upon their return are not often brought up, probably because the war itself was a huge victory for the United States, and because the country soon embarked on a huge economic boom. In that sense these stories have been obscured. L.A. Noire treats this very human reality with a deft, mature hand that lends all the police-procedural gameplay an emotional heft rarely felt in video games.
Thankfully, there are a few straight-up villains to take out. But ambiguity is the order of the day, and L.A. Noire serves it up with flair. As in Red Dead and Grand Theft Auto, you have a vast virtual landscape to explore outside of the main story -- in this case a broad swath of Los Angeles -- but there is far less actually to do out there than in either the Liberty City of Grand Theft or the Old West of Red Dead. (One technical note: L.A. Noire is among the growing number of games that highlight the inadequacy of the Xbox 360's current optical disc format. While the game comes on a single Blu-ray disc for the PlayStation 3, for which it was originally designed, it takes up three discs for the Xbox 360. This game is best played on the PS3.)
Along with Red Dead Redemption, my other favorite of last year was Heavy Rain, also a grim serial-killer story. L.A. Noire draws heavily from both games. The one thing they all have in common is that they are set in, and reflect, visions of the real world.
Perhaps the final frontier isn't that far away after all.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: L.A. Noire: This new game, to be released on Tuesday by Rockstar, threads a classic murder mystery with contemporary concerns.(C1)
 In L.A. Noire, the lead character questions suspects even as he confronts his own demons. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROCKSTAR GAMES)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER GAMES (90%); MURDER (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); HOMICIDE (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); CONSPIRACY (69%); WITNESSES (68%); ARSON (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011



537 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Houston Businessman to Buy Astros

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
Jim Crane, who lost a bid to buy the Texas Rangers last year, announced a deal Monday to acquire the Houston Astros from Drayton McLane for $680 million, which includes the lease on Minute Maid Park.
''Owning the Houston Astros in my hometown is all I can wish for,'' Crane said in a news conference.
The sale price trails only the $845 million purchase of the Chicago Cubs by the Ricketts family two years ago. The Boston Red Sox were sold in 2002 for $660 million. McLane bought the team in 1992 for about $117 million. 
Crane, a Houston freight executive, was viewed by creditors to the Rangers as the higher and preferable bidder for that team when it was auctioned last year in federal bankruptcy court. A lawyer for the Rangers' owner at the time, Tom Hicks, called Crane's offer ''a superior economic deal.'' Crane later teamed up with Mark Cuban, the Dallas Mavericks' owner, for a joint bid for the Rangers but lost to one led by Chuck Greenberg and the Hall of Famer Nolan Ryan.
The possibility of Crane's being approved to own the Rangers was considered uphill at the time, and not just because Commissioner Bud Selig favored the group led by Ryan and Greenberg. Crane had backed out of a handshake deal to buy the Astros in 2008, which reportedly angered McLane, who is close to Selig.
Also, Crane put aside $8.5 million in 2001 to settle a racial and gender discrimination complaint by the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission against his freight company, Eagle Global Logistics.
The commission said, among other things, that Eagle failed or refused to promote African-Americans, Hispanics and women into managerial and sales positions; demoted women from managerial jobs; maintained a hostile environment against blacks, Hispanics and women; and paid those groups less than white or male employees performing comparable work.
Eagle disputed the allegations and sued the agency. Eventually, after a review of the number of claims against the company, the E.E.O.C. returned about $6 million to Eagle, according to The Houston Chronicle.
Major League Baseball is aware of the case but had no comment, a baseball official said.
The sale has to be approved by three-quarters of baseball's owners. If that happens, Crane will be a rare team owner who actually played the game. As a pitcher for the University of Central Missouri, he struck out 18 Ohio Northern batters in the first round of the 1974 N.C.A.A. Division II College World Series. Ryan, the Rangers' president and chief executive, was a far better pitcher, but he owns only a small piece of that team.
Crane is probably paying more for the Astros now than he would have in 2008 because McLane, the Houston Rockets and Comcast last year created a regional sports television network, Comcast SportsNet Houston. Like the Astros' deal, the Cubs and Red Sox transactions included related entities.
The Houston teams combined own nearly 80 percent of the network, and Comcast owns the rest. Rockets games will move to the network from Fox Sports Houston in 2012, followed the next season by Astros games.
Chris Bevilacqua, the chief executive of Bevilacqua Media, a consulting firm, said the Astros ''unlocked significant value'' by creating the network because such assets ''are for the most part impervious to the ups and downs of a team's performance on the field.''
The sale of the Astros was handled for McLane by Steve Greenberg of Allen & Company, which is the Mets' adviser in their attempt to sell a minority share of the team.
The Astros, who are in their 50th season, reached the playoffs six times during McLane's tenure, but they have finished with a losing record in three of the past four seasons and were a National League-worst 15-25 entering Monday's games.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); WOMEN (76%); SALES FORCE (76%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); APPROVALS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); LAWYERS (70%); GENDER EQUALITY (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (69%); RACE & RACISM (69%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (69%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); DISCRIMINATION (69%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (69%); EMPLOYMENT (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (65%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (65%); EMPLOYEE DEMOTIONS (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS RANGERS (94%); HOUSTON ASTROS (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (57%); CHICAGO CUBS (57%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (56%)

PERSON: MARK CUBAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011



538 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Poetic Justice for Bondholders

BYLINE: By AGNES T. CRANE, CHRISTOPHER HUGHES and ROB COX

 BODY:
What goes around comes around. Two years ago, the United States government bullied bondholders into accepting the steep losses involved in Chrysler's bankruptcy plan. Now, the creditors have the upper hand as the automaker seeks $6 billion to pay back the Treasury. The creditors are pressing their advantage.
Hot debt markets mean there is little doubt that Chrysler will get the money. But the automaker may have to pay more than the 5.25 percent to 5.75 percent interest rate that it originally hoped for, and it may have to raise more of the total than it wanted from the costlier unsecured debt market. 
Though memories are short on Wall Street, it is as if secured loan investors are dispensing some poetic justice. Back in 2009, the government strong-armed them into writing down more than two-thirds of an investment that they thought had been secured by hard assets. Not only that, but creditors with far weaker claims, like the auto workers union and Fiat, which still has not sunk a penny into Chrysler, looked to be getting a better deal.
To be fair, Chrysler has returned to profitability since its turn through bankruptcy. Yet potential creditors know they have negotiating leverage. Chrysler's new leaders are eager to put the bailout behind them. The Treasury would like to disentangle itself from the private sector. And Fiat wants a bigger stake. Before Fiat can increase its share to 46 percent, Chrysler needs to pay back the American and Canadian governments.
That gives the advantage to investors, a relatively rare occurrence in today's turbocharged financial markets. Still, if any of them are harboring thoughts of payback, they should not overdo it. Decent regular interest payments still trump grudges, especially when safe havens like Treasuries return so little. Moreover, the unsecured bond market, where Chrysler had already planned to raise $2.5 billion, could probably handle more.
So there's only limited scope for a well-chilled dish of creditors' revenge. But even forcing Chrysler to pay a slightly higher interest rate may offer a little satisfaction.
A Canadian Response
This time around, Canada does not need to resort to protectionism to keep a strategic asset in Canadian hands. The counterbid of $3.6 billion Canadian dollars for TMX, the operator of the Toronto Stock Exchange, by a consortium named Maple makes sense on its own merits. It offers TMX shareholders a premium and potentially compelling industrial strategy. It is not easy to see how the London Stock Exchange can beat it.
The London Stock Exchange's bid was necessarily pitched as the kind of offer a government concerned about the hollowing out of its financial sector might be inclined to accept. It was all in stock, giving the Canadian exchange's owners 45 percent of the group and the impression that they would be signing up to a merger of equals.
The trouble is that some of Canada's biggest banks saw this for what it was: a takeover of the market that helps sustain the city's position as a global financial center in the metals and mining industry. So they have banded together to offer a deal worth 48 Canadian dollars ($49.53) a share, a premium of about 20 percent to the current value of the London offer.
About two-thirds of the offer comes in cash; the remainder consists of shares in a new group. In an echo of the deals that created NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Borse, the new entity in Canada will combine the Toronto and Montreal bourses with Alpha, a trading platform, and a majority stake in the nation's main securities clearing house.
The move has a whiff of protectionism, especially after Canada blocked BHP Billiton's proposed takeover of the Potash Corporation. But the driving force appears to be TMX customer interest. And even if they want a national champion, TMX shareholders are not obviously being victimized in the process.
True, Maple's plans add competition risk to the mix. TMX will not want to drop the London Stock Exchange until it is clear that Maple can deliver. If it does, the London Stock Exchange would be ill-advised to respond. Not only would it have to pay more than is justified by the cost savings it has promised, but it would also probably need to drop the pretense of its merger of equals.
That, in turn, would raise further hackles from Canadian protectionist interests. Put it all together and the Maple Leaf, not the Union Jack, looks most likely to win the day.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chrysler has become profitable since its turn through bankruptcy. It now wants $6 billion to pay back the Treasury, giving creditors the upper hand. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA COOK/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); MERGERS (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (53%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (93%); FIAT SPA (92%); TMX GROUP LTD (54%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (92%); F (BIT) (92%); X (TSX) (54%); TXQ (FRA) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (70%) ONTARIO, CANADA (74%) CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011



539 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Slips as Weaknesses Emerge

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks retreated on Monday as Greece sought additional bailout money and a report showed that manufacturing growth in the New York region cooled.
Shares in the Lowe's Companies, the home improvement retailer, dropped 3.6 percent after it cut its full-year earnings forecast. NYSE Euronext shares tumbled 13 percent after the Nasdaq OMX Group and IntercontinentalExchange withdrew their takeover bid for their rival.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 0.6 percent, to 1,329.47. The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 47.38 points, or 0.4 percent, to 12,548.37. The Nasdaq fell 46.16 points, or 1.6 percent, to 2,782.31. The Dow and the S.& P. had risen early before slipping. 
''There's concern about a soft spot,'' said Burt White, the chief investment officer at LPL Financial in Boston. ''We are starting to see a peak in manufacturing and margins. In addition, there's the European debt crisis. They've been trying to deal with the symptoms, without curing the disease. It's not an easy fix. The market has had a big run, with both stocks and commodities up a lot. The bigger the party, the tougher the hangover.''
While the S.& P. 500 has rallied 5.8 percent since its year-to-date low on March 16, the gains have been led by so-called defensive industries that are thought to hold up better during an economic slowdown. Health care companies, consumer firms that sell necessities, telephone operators and utilities have risen at least 9.9 percent. Financial and energy companies have been the worst performers.
European finance chiefs endorsed a 78 billion euro ($111 billion) bailout for Portugal. Authorities stepped up the pressure on Greece to sell assets and deepen spending cuts to win an increase of its 110 billion euro ($156 billion) aid package and more time to repay the loans.
In deliberations clouded by the absence of Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the International Monetary Fund managing director, Europe's rich countries also weighed whether to make holders of Greek bonds assume some losses. The I.M.F. named John Lipsky as acting managing director on Sunday after Mr. Strauss-Kahn was arrested in connection with the reported sexual attack of a hotel maid in New York. Mr. Strauss-Kahn, 62, has denied the charges and will plead not guilty, his lawyer Benjamin Brafman said.
Bill Gross, who runs the bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Company, said Greece was the world's biggest candidate for default.
''We suggest that Greece is insolvent and that at some point the can cannot be kicked down the road any further,'' Mr. Gross said in an interview on Bloomberg TV. ''Ultimately debtholders will have to bear some of the burden as well.''
Stocks also fell as a report showed that manufacturing in the New York region expanded at a slower pace than anticipated in May as the cost of raw materials surged. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York's general economic index fell to 11.9 from a one-year high of 21.7 in April. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey had projected it would drop to 19.6, according to the median forecast. Readings greater than zero signal growth.
NYSE Euronext shares fell 13 percent to $35.73. Nasdaq and ICE withdrew their bid for NYSE Euronext after talks with regulators showed they would not win antitrust approval, clearing the path for Deutsche Borse.
Shares of AMR, the parent company of American Airlines, gained 4.9 percent to $6.69, while JetBlue shares rose 5.6 percent to $6.14. JPMorgan Chase raised its recommendation for the carriers to overweight, from neutral.
UBS lifted estimates for combined profit by companies in the S.& P. 500 for this year and 2012 on productivity growth, share buybacks, rising oil prices and strength in emerging markets.
The Treasury's 10-year note rose 7/32, to 99 26/32. The yield fell to 3.15 percent, from 3.17 percent late Friday.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HOME CENTERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BONDS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (88%); EXECUTIVES (88%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); RETAILERS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); BOND FUNDS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (72%); LAWYERS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); HEALTH CARE (64%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (60%); SEX OFFENSES (60%); ARRESTS (60%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (50%)

COMPANY: LOWE'S COS INC (92%); LPL FINANCIAL CORP (69%); PACIFIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (PIMCO) (61%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (58%); NYSE EURONEXT INC (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%); INTERCONTINENTALEXCHANGE INC (57%)

TICKER: LOW (NYSE) (92%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (58%); NYX (PAR) (58%); NYX (NYSE) (58%); ICE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (92%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (69%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (61%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (85%); BILL GROSS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); GREECE (91%); EUROPE (79%); PORTUGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011



540 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Ultimatum Holding Up Trade Deals

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration said on Monday that it would not seek Congressional approval of free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama and South Korea until Republicans agree to expand assistance for American workers who might lose jobs as a result. 
President Obama has made the three deals a focus of his foreign and economic policy, but the Monday ultimatum reflects the political difficulty of advancing the deals in the face of high unemployment and opposition from parts of the Democratic base.
''This administration believes that just as we should be excited about the prospect of selling more of what we make around the world, we have to be equally firm about keeping faith with America's workers,'' said Ron Kirk, the United States trade representative.
The announcement puts the White House in line with Congressional Democrats who have made expanded benefits a condition of their support for the trade deals, and at loggerheads with Republicans who say the government cannot afford the cost.
Senator Orrin Hatch, the ranking Republican on the finance committee, said in a statement that the decision was ''hugely disappointing.''
''It makes no sense to shut the door on increasing U.S. exports by over $10 billion in order to fund a costly program,'' said Mr. Hatch, who is from Utah.
The federal government has provided supplemental assistance to workers whose jobs were shipped overseas since the 1960s, but the scale of those benefits has waxed and waned. The current benefits include training programs, money to cover the cost of searching for a job or relocating to a new city, and tax credits for health insurance.
In 2009, Congress expanded eligibility for the program significantly as part of broader economic stimulus legislation. The Labor Department estimates that the program provided benefits to about 280,000 workers last year at a cost of about $1.3 billion. But the expanded eligibility lapsed in February after House Republicans opposed its renewal.
Gene Sperling, director of the National Economic Council, said Monday that the White House was confident it could persuade Republicans to reverse that decision.
The administration started informal talks with the Senate about the three trade deals early this month, a step that seemed to reflect confidence on both sides that a deal can be done.
''We can work on Congressional leadership to get that accomplished,'' Mr. Sperling said.
Conservative groups like the Cato Institute in Washington say there is little evidence that the program helps workers find new jobs, and that the government cannot afford the expense. They also question why the government should provide special help to the relatively small portion of unemployed workers who lose jobs to overseas competition.
''Furthermore, the existence of the program reinforces a false impression that international trade is a negative factor for the economy,'' Sallie James, a trade policy analyst at Cato, wrote in a recent policy note arguing against continued financing.
But a range of business groups have sided with the White House, supporting the expansion as a necessary step alongside passage of the trade deals.
In a letter sent to Congressional leaders this month, the groups, including the United States Chamber of Commerce, wrote that the program was ''an essential part'' of the nation's trade policy that had enjoyed bipartisan support for most of the last 50 years.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A mobile phone production line in Gimpo, South Korea. The Obama administration is pressing for more aid for American workers who stand to lose jobs to overseas competition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEONGJOON CHO/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); TAX LAW (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); RELOCATIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ORRIN HATCH (58%); RON KIRK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); COLOMBIA (92%); PANAMA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011



541 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Debt Talks Continue, Minus a Key Figure

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- European finance ministers on Monday pressed ahead with efforts to control the debt crisis, approving a bailout package for Portugal and demanding that Greece start a privatization program before it gets any further help.
Still, the absence of Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, cast a long shadow over the meeting, depriving ministers of the advice of a powerful and experienced European with a pivotal role on the global financial stage.
A former French economy minister, Mr. Strauss-Kahn was a member of the political generation that created the euro. He also had the respect of the euro zone's most senior politicians and officials. 
''He's a good friend of mine,'' said Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg who is chairman of the euro zone finance ministers. ''I didn't like the pictures I saw on the TV this morning,'' Mr. Juncker said at a news conference. ''It was deeply sad and traumatic. But Mr. Strauss-Kahn is in the hands of the American justice. It's not up to us to comment on this, but it makes me deeply, deeply sad.''
European officials insisted that it was business as usual without Mr. Strauss-Kahn, who was being replaced in Brussels by Nemat Shafik, a deputy managing director at the I.M.F.
At Monday's meeting in Brussels, ministers nominated Mario Draghi of Italy as the next president of the European Central Bank, making his endorsement by European Union leaders a formality.
As also expected, they unanimously agreed to grant aid worth a total of 78 billion euros ($110 billion) to Portugal under a three-year program jointly administered by the European Union and the I.M.F.
Under the deal, the Portuguese authorities would encourage private investors ''to maintain their overall exposures on a voluntary basis.'' Although it was unclear how that encouragement would be offered, one possibility would be special guarantees to those who agreed to retain Portuguese bonds.
Olli Rehn, the European commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, said that the interest rate charged on loans to Portugal would be ''above 5.5 percent but clearly below 6 percent.''
But the most difficult discussions came over Greece, which was urged to speed up its promised 50 billion euro privatization program before a second rescue. Ministers discussed putting Greece's privatization project in the hands of an external agency.
While Mr. Juncker ruled out the possibility of restructuring Greek debt, he said that he ''would not exclude in a definite way a kind of reprofiling,'' or a voluntary easing of loan terms. The idea, however, was rejected by France's economy minister, Christine Lagarde.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn's arrest was not discussed formally at the meeting, but the implications of the case dominated debate in the corridors.
Most diplomats expected him to leave the I.M.F. soon to run for president of France in elections next year. But now, he may depart under a cloud, which increased concerns over the cozy arrangement that had allowed for a European to lead the I.M.F.
Even with Mr. Strauss-Kahn at the helm, Europeans felt a hardening of attitudes at the I.M.F., where concerns have grown in North America about Europe's internal policy divisions over the debt crisis.
Meanwhile, some in the developing world are concerned about the amount of effort the I.M.F., which has traditionally devoted resources to their problems, is having to expend on Europe, said a European Union diplomat who was not authorized to speak publicly.
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany defended Europe's claim to keep the top job at the I.M.F. for now, saying it made sense given its role in tackling the euro zone crisis, Reuters reported from Berlin. However, she said it was not yet time to discuss a successor.
''Generally, we know that in the medium term developing countries certainly have a claim both to the post of I.M.F. chief as well as World Bank chief,'' Mrs. Merkel said. ''I believe, however, that in the current phase, there are good reasons for Europe to have good candidates ready.''
That view was echoed in Brussels by Didier Reynders, the Belgian finance minister. ''It would be preferable if we continued to hold these posts in the future,'' he said.
As a former French government minister, Mr. Strauss-Kahn has been a strong presence and is someone who feels at home in the complex world of European Union policy making.
A Frenchman who speaks English and German, he was well placed to play at Europe's top table. He was scheduled to meet Mrs. Merkel on Sunday before his arrest.
Technical work was continuing with officials from the I.M.F., the European Central Bank and the European Commission ahead of a likely new package of aid next month. The I.M.F. is providing about a third of the original 110 billion euro loan package for Greece.
But European officials are finding it increasingly difficult to quash speculation that Greek debt will have to be restructured.
''Of course we discuss all kinds of topics, including restructuring,'' said Jan Kees de Jager, finance minister of the Netherlands, as he arrived at the meeting Monday. ''But in public, we are very reluctant about discussing and debating restructuring.''
On Sunday, Wolfgang Schauble, the finance minister of Germany, suggested that extending the maturities of Greek bonds could be a way to help ease the country's debt crisis if private investors participated..
The I.M.F is believed to be more positive toward a restructuring of Greek debt than the European Central Bank and particular European governments, prompting some speculation that Mr. Strauss-Kahn's absence might affect policy.
However, Daniel Gros, director of the Center for European Policy Studies, said that the effect was most likely to be felt over the longer term.
''They have pretty much made up their minds that nothing on restructuring happens before 2013,'' he said. ''If they want to keep their promise then the voice of the I.M.F. might be relevant next year. And maybe the next I.M.F. managing director will be clearer in saying you in Europe got us into this and we want to get our money back.''
In the meantime, Mr. Gros said, the message from leading governments was that the euro zone would do what was necessary, though the details of another aid package for Athens, and what Greece could offer in return, were not yet clear.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Christine Lagarde, finance minister of France, with Fernando Teixeira dos Santos of Portugal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEERT VANDEN WIJNGAERT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 Jean-Claude Juncker ruled out restructuring Greek debt, but said that he would not exclude easing of loan terms. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN THYS/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); POLITICS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (53%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (82%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (90%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%) EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); GREECE (94%); BELGIUM (94%); PORTUGAL (94%); FRANCE (93%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011



542 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: As Federal Government Hits Its Debt Limit, Lawmakers Spar Over Solution

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and CARL HULSE; Jackie Calmes reported from Washington, and Carl Hulse from Chicago.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, officially informed Congress on Monday that the government, as projected, had reached its $14.3 trillion debt limit and had begun taking what he has called ''extraordinary measures'' to meet obligations while lawmakers and President Obama seek a budget deal to raise the limit.
Mr. Geithner, in a letter to Congressional leaders of both parties, stood by an earlier projection that even with the Treasury's accounting maneuvers, on Aug. 2 ''the borrowing authority of the United States will be exhausted,'' ultimately threatening a government default. 
With the House in recess all week, few members of Congress were even in town, and budget talks between Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Congressional leaders were suspended. But a bipartisan ''Gang of Six'' continued negotiating toward a long-term debt-reduction compromise in what could be their make-or-break week.
The focus of budget attention was in Mr. Obama's hometown, Chicago, where Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin defended the House Republican budget he wrote, and its Medicare proposals in particular, in a speech to the Chicago Economic Club.
As dozens of protesters marched and chanted outside, Mr. Ryan told his business audience, ''Our budget proposal makes no changes for those in or near retirement, and offers future generations a strengthened Medicare program they can count on, with guaranteed coverage options, less help for the wealthy and more help for the poor and the sick.''
The speech by Mr. Ryan, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, was part of a Republican effort to counter intensifying criticism from Democrats, who hope to exploit the Medicare controversy to take back seats in 2012. That would be payback, as Democrats see it, since they lost their House majority in midterm elections last November after Republicans campaigned against Medicare reductions in Mr. Obama's health care law.
The message on one of the protest signs -- ''Hands Off Medicare'' -- was also seen last year at conservatives' protests against Democrats. Yet despite that sentiment, which is also reflected in national polls, Republican and Democratic leaders agree that Medicare and Medicaid must be squeezed for savings because rising health care prices and an aging population make those programs the main drivers of the projected and unsustainable growth of the nation's debt. But their approaches are far apart.
The House Democratic leader, Representative Nancy Pelosi, was in New York on Monday, along with the two Democratic leadership lieutenants she named to the Biden budget talks, to meet with financial industry and news outlets about the debt. She told Bloomberg Television that ''we are open to many'' suggestions for Medicare savings, adding, ''We cannot take that off the table.''
''But one suggestion we are not open to is the abolishment of Medicare,'' she said. ''That is what the Republicans have put forth in their budget.''
While Medicare savings under the Democrats' health care law and pending proposals would come mainly from reduced federal payments to doctors, hospitals and insurance companies, the budget put forth by House Republicans would cut spending by turning Medicare into a system of vouchers for future beneficiaries to buy private insurance, but in amounts that would not keep pace with the projected inflation of health costs.
The Congressional Budget Office has said the Ryan plan would drive up health care costs for older Americans in the future and limit their coverage. But Mr. Ryan framed his proposal as a way to slow the growth in Medicare spending while giving older Americans more control over their care choices.
His plan would ''give seniors the power to deny business to inefficient providers'' while Democrats would ''give government the power to deny care to seniors,'' Mr. Ryan said.
Republicans have acknowledged that the two parties will not be able to agree on Medicare and other entitlement programs -- a ''big, grand, global bargain'' on debt reduction, as Mr. Ryan put it -- before the August deadline for increasing the debt limit.
Given that, the goal in the budget talks is twofold: to find up to $2 trillion in specific multiyear savings from other programs, including farm subsidies, and to agree on mechanisms in the budget process to force the two parties to find more savings in the future, including in Medicare and other entitlement programs.
''For every dollar the president wants to raise the debt ceiling, we can show him plenty of ways to cut far more than a dollar of spending,'' Mr. Ryan said, echoing the position of Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio.
Democrats demand that higher revenues also must be part of the equation, particularly from the wealthiest Americans. Ms. Pelosi signaled one concession: while she repeated Democrats' demand to end the Bush-era tax cuts after 2012 for the richest households, she said she would support making repeal apply to those with taxable income above $1 million instead of $250,000.
Mr. Ryan opposed any tax increases and accused Democrats of ''class warfare'' for pitting Americans of different incomes against one another. ''Class warfare may be clever politics, but it is terrible economics,'' Mr. Ryan said.
He said he would decide this week whether to seek the Senate seat in Wisconsin that Herb Kohl, a Democrat, is giving up. Mr. Ryan said he wanted to retain an influential role in the fiscal debate, which would seem to weigh in favor of his staying in the House.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MEDICARE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); AGING TRENDS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); BANKING & FINANCE (61%); MEDICAID (58%); AGING (50%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (88%); PAUL RYAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011



543 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: K.K.R. Sheds the Last of Its Money-Losing Media Company

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
7:12 p.m. Updated
If you happened to stroll by the offices of the private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company on Monday, you might have seen Henry R. Kravis removing an albatross from around his neck.
The albatross was Primedia, the media business that K.K.R. has owned since the Bush administration - the first Bush administration. 
Primedia, a publicly traded company majority owned by K.K.R., agreed to sell itself to the buyout firm TPG Capital in a deal valued at $525 million including debt. The sale, assuming it closes, will end K.K.R.'s 22-year stewardship of the company, making it the firm's longest investment ever - and one of its least successful.
Private equity firms typically own a company for about five years before exiting their investment.
A spokeswoman for K.K.R. declined to comment.
In 1989, Mr. Kravis and his partners at K.K.R. formed K-III Holdings to acquire print media assets. Its first deal was the purchase of a book club division from Macmillan and other assets for $310 million. A couple of years later, it paid $600 million for nine magazine titles from the News Corporation, including New York and Seventeen.
The company went public in 1995, with K.K.R. retaining majority control. In 1997, K-III changed its name to the flashier Primedia. (''K-III's a horrible name,'' the late Bill Reilly, Primedia's chief executive, said at the time.)
Then, just as the dot-com bubble was inflating, Primedia began an aggressive Web strategy. Under the direction of Thomas S. Rogers, a prominent media executive brought in by K.K.R., Primedia paid $690 million for About.com
in the fall of 2000. The next year, it spent $515 million on the American holdings of the magazine publisher Emap, whose titles included Motor Trend and Teen.
K.K.R. paid for all of these assets with nearly $1 billion of its own money. It borrowed the rest, racking up more than $2 billion in debt. The excessive leverage hobbled Primedia over the last decade as it wrestled with the inexorable decline of the print media business.
Facing the twin problems of a crushing debt load and an advertising downturn, K.K.R. was forced to disassemble Primedia. The buyout shop brought in its Capstone consulting group, which aggressively cut costs, shut magazine titles and sold the others, including the marquee properties New York and Seventeen. Indeed, Primedia has completely exited the magazine business.
Primedia announced in February 2005 that it had sold About.com to The New York Times Company for $410 million.
So what does TPG, which paid a 62 percent premium to Primedia's closing stock price on Friday, see in Primedia? Today, the company's main assets are real estate properties like ApartmentGuide.com and NewHomeGuide.com.
''Primedia is a leading resource for consumers in search of housing,'' David Trujillo, a TPG executive, said in a statement. Mr. Trujillo also highlighted the continued shift away from print, adding: ''We believe the company will continue to benefit from the continuing secular transition from print to digital media.''
As for Mr. Kravis, he and his investors lost money on Primedia, although a firm spokeswoman declined to specify how much. Using simple math, it would appear that K.K.R. funds lost several hundred million dollars on the deal. But private equity math is never simple. Over the last two decades, K.K.R. has earned back some of its investment by paying itself dividends and buying back debt.
K.K.R. also employed another private equity trick in selling Primedia. It offloaded the company to TPG, another buyout firm. These so-called secondary buyouts, in which a company is passed from one private equity shop to another, have a mixed reputation among investors.
At least no one can accuse K.K.R. of having a short-term focus.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Henry R. Kravis, co-chief executive of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, which sold Primedia for $525 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER FOLEY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (89%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (71%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: KKR & CO LP (96%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (81%); NEWS CORP (68%); TPG CAPITAL LP (58%); ABOUT.COM INC (53%); EMAP PLC (53%)

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (96%); NYT (NYSE) (81%); NWS (NASDAQ) (68%); NWS (ASX) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (96%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (81%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (81%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (68%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (68%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

PERSON: HENRY KRAVIS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011



544 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Hoping Third Party Is Charm, Industrialist Jolts House Race

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ; Michael D. Regan contributed reporting from Varysburg, N.Y.

 BODY:
People in western New York used to roll their eyes when the name Jack Davis came up.
Mr. Davis, a wealthy industrialist, spent over $5 million of his own money on failed efforts to win a seat in Congress. He once said, after a congressman sent sexually suggestive messages to young pages, that he would have used a bat on anyone who had done the same thing to one of his sons. He also predicted that states with large numbers of Mexican immigrants would secede and start a second Civil War.
But these days, few are writing off Mr. Davis. 
A special election fight over a House of Representatives seat, which has attracted big money and huge interest from both parties, now appears to hinge on him. Running as a Tea Party candidate, Mr. Davis, 78, is siphoning support from the Republican candidate -- so much so that Republicans privately concede that if they do not stop him, they could hand a seat they have long held to the Democrats.
With a week remaining in the race, Republican heavyweights like House Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio and conservative organizations, including one with ties to Karl Rove, are questioning Mr. Davis's conservative credentials in television advertisements, news conferences and elsewhere.
Mr. Davis's ascension comes as a race that had once seemed a certain Republican victory has become fiercely competitive because of a House Republican plan that calls for overhauling Medicare.
The election, in the 26th Congressional District, which runs between Rochester and Buffalo, is to fill a seat vacated by a Republican.
Mr. Boehner took a veiled swipe at Mr. Davis during a visit to western New York to campaign with the Republican candidate, Jane Corwin. Then, several national conservative organizations began directing attacks at Mr. Davis, who has switched parties multiple times.
In recent days, national and local Republican operatives have circulated a video that they claim shows Mr. Davis assaulting a young Republican volunteer who tracked him with a camera -- an accusation the Davis camp says is untrue and a smear attempt.
Mr. Davis says Republicans are obviously out to get him.
''They're coming after me like I'm really the No. 1 issue to their winning the election,'' he said after a rally in Varysburg. ''They thought this would be a coronation. And I've changed their plans, and they don't like it.''
For the new Republican majority in Congress, the stakes in the race are significant.
Ms. Corwin's advantage vanished after her Democratic rival, Kathy Hochul, used the Republican Medicare proposal to energize her once long-shot campaign.
Ms. Hochul has repeatedly criticized the plan as dangerous for retirees, an important voting bloc, and has called on Ms. Corwin to denounce it. But Ms. Corwin has refused to budge, which may go over well with conservatives.
The shifting dynamics of the race have caused an about-face among top Democrats. After hesitating to spend much money supporting Ms. Hochul in a district where Republicans far outnumber Democrats, party leaders are now making the contest a preview of next year's battle for the House by turning it into a referendum on the Republican agenda.
The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee recently unveiled a television campaign focused on older residents of the district, where a majority of registered voters are 45 or older. It portrays Ms. Corwin and Mr. Davis as having similar views.
But while Medicare has proven to be a powerful issue, independent analysts and strategists from both parties say Mr. Davis's candidacy has become a threat to Ms. Corwin and may tip the balance to Ms. Hochul.
''It is clear to me that he is a spoiler and not headed to victory in this race,'' said Thomas M. Reynolds, a former Republican congressman from the district who was a strategist for the national party. (Mr. Davis is also drawing voters away from Ms. Hochul, but pollsters and other experts say his impact on the Democrat is less damaging.)
Mr. Davis, who has spent $2.2 million on his campaign, grew up in western New York. In 1964, he started a company, I Squared R Element Company, which manufactures heating elements for electric furnaces. It made a fortune for Mr. Davis, who is married, with 6 children and 13 grandchildren.
It is difficult to attach a political label to Mr. Davis, whose views combine economic populism (he abhors free trade) with libertarianism (he supports both gun rights and abortion rights).
Mr. Davis started off as a Republican in the mold of Barry Goldwater and Ronald Reagan. But he left the party in 2004, largely because he felt it did not share his concerns over multinational corporations benefiting from trade policies that hurt American workers.
He became a Democrat that year and spent $1.4 million in an unsuccessful effort to unseat Mr. Reynolds. Two years later, he poured $2.4 million into another failed campaign to defeat Mr. Reynolds. After Mr. Reynolds retired in 2008, Mr. Davis ran for Congress again, spending $1.7 million in a losing bid for the Democratic nomination. Christopher Lee, a Republican businessman, won the seat.
The seat became vacant in February when Mr. Lee resigned after he e-mailed a woman a shirtless photo of himself and it appeared on the Internet. Mr. Davis entered the race, seeking the Republican nomination, as Democratic leaders got behind Ms. Hochul, the Erie County clerk. But after failing to secure the Republican bid, Mr. Davis gathered enough signatures to run on the Tea Party line.
Over the weekend, the excitement over his candidacy was evident at a banquet hall where he drew applause during a speech in which he denounced free trade, spoke of reversing America's manufacturing decline, pledged to take a $1 annual salary in Congress and promised to bequeath his company to his 75 employees.
''Let me tell you why I am running for Congress,'' he told the crowd. ''I love America.''
In trying to blunt Mr. Davis's rise, Republicans have sought to raise doubts about his conservative credentials.
American Crossroads has unveiled a television campaign calling him a ''millionaire career candidate'' who is ''pretending to be conservative.''
But some Republican voters do not seem inclined to be swayed.
Mary Ann Reisdorf, 70, of Varysburg, attended the Davis rally and left with a more favorable opinion of him than of Ms. Corwin, the Republican.
''Jack is a lot more forthright, I think, and I like that,'' Ms. Reisdorf said.
Clayton Ehrenreich, 53, a Republican and the former mayor of the village of Medina, had a similar view.
''Davis is somebody different than the status quo in Washington,'' Mr. Ehrenreich said. ''He's not controlled by either party.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jack Davis, tireless candidate. (A1)
 Jack Davis, a Tea Party candidate for the House from the 26th Congressional District in New York, at a rally in Varysburg. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN BANNON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); MEDICARE (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (51%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (51%)

PERSON: KATHY HOCHUL (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%); KARL ROVE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011



545 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Imagining Detroit

BYLINE: MARK BITTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Can a city come back with the help of markets, gardens and farms?

 BODY:
Detroit was once called the Paris of the West, but at this point it's more reminiscent of Venice. Like Venice, its demise has been imminent for some time, as crucial businesses and huge chunks of the population flee. 
And, like Venice, it has a singular look. Not everyone will find Detroit beautiful, but with its wide, often empty boulevards, its abandoned, ghost-like train station and high-rises, its semi-deserted neighborhoods and its once-celebrated downtown now jumbled by shuttered storefronts - and the hideous Renaissance Center - it creates a sense of disbelief bordering on fantasy. It's either a vision of the future or, like Venice, an impossibly strange anomaly, its best days over. 
But after spending some time here, I saw an alternative view of Detroit: a model for self-reliance and growth. Because while the lifeblood of Venice comes from outsiders, Detroit residents are looking within. They'd welcome help, but they're not counting on it. Rather, to paraphrase George Bernard Shaw, they're turning from seeing things as they are and asking, "Why?" to dreaming how they might be and wondering, "Why not?"
Food is central. Justice, security, a sense of community, and more intelligent land use have become integral to the food system. Here, local food isn't just hip, it's a unifying factor not only among African-Americans and whites but between them. Food is an issue on which it seems everyone can agree, and this is a lesson for all of us. "The idea," says Malik Yakini, a school principal who runs the two-acre D-Town Farm, "is to help black people stand up, to demonstrate that creating reality is not the exclusive domain of white people - without pointing fingers at white people." The farm, located in Rouge Park - the city's biggest - will soon double in size.
Yakini, the chairman of the Detroit Food Policy Council, which is holding its first conference this week, gave me a tour on the eve of spring planting while a dozen African-American volunteers steadily raked a sizable plot. "The farm can empower, drive the economy, reduce our carbon footprint and give us better food," he said. "And we're influencing young white people too, because they can see that." 
And how. During the 48 hours I spent in Detroit, I met enthusiastic black, white and Asian people, from age 10 to over 60, almost all of whom agreed that food is the key to the new Detroit. 
I was driven around the city by Dan Carmody, director of the 120-year-old Eastern Market, whose huge sheds are crammed with vendors on Saturdays, when as many as 50,000 shoppers buy everything from Grown in Detroit vegetables to Michigan asparagus to flats of flowers to hydroponic tomatoes. In other words, a typical big-city covered market mash-up. 
But if the market is familiar, the rest of Detroit is anything but. Read the paper, and you see a wasted landscape; go there, and you see the sprouts emerging from the soil. 
Imagine blocks that once boasted 30 houses, now with three; imagine hundreds of such blocks. Imagine the green space created by the city's heartbreaking but intelligent policy of removing burnt-out or fallen-down houses. Now look at the corner of one such street, where a young man who has used the city's "adopt-a-lot" program (it costs nothing) to establish an orchard, a garden and a would-be community center on three lots, one with a standing house. (The land, like many of the gardens, belongs to the city and is "leased" for a year at a time. But no one seems especially concerned about the city repossessing.) A young man who adopts eight lots and has bought another three has an operation that grows every year and trains eager young people. A Capuchin monastery operates gardens spanning 24 lots, five of which they own; at one of them, I meet Patrick Crouch, who's supervising 10 gardeners-in-training and reminds me that "community gardens are not just about 'gardens' but 'community.'" 
The gardens are everywhere, and you almost can't drive anywhere without seeing one - a corporation named Compuware is establishing one downtown - but it goes beyond that. Carmody has plans to expand, modernize and re-unify the Public Market, which was split in half by a freeway in the heyday of urban renewal. Gary Wozniak, whom I meet over breakfast at the Russell Street Deli and who runs a program for recovering addicts, has plans to start an indoor tilapia and shrimp farm near the market, using a combination of investment money, loans and grants. 
Back in the neighborhoods, I talk with Lisa Johanson, who, with the aid of a church group, started Peaches and Greens, a small fruit and vegetable store in a neighborhood that boasts 23 liquor stores and one grocery. Daily, Peaches and Greens sends out a truck that sells to residents in a two-mile radius, providing produce to a neighborhood in which only half the households own cars. The truck also sells wholesale to five of the liquor stores.
And so on. Over good, old-fashioned lasagne at Giovanni's, Betti Wiggins, who runs the food services department for the public school system, talks about using more and more local food; Phil Jones, a chef who's on the Food Policy Council, talks about training kids to cook; Mike Score talks about plans for greening 300 acres, including forests, tree farms, a demonstration center and gardens. 
As Jackie Victor, co-owner of the Avalon Bakery, an unofficial meeting place for the Detroit food movement, says to me, "Imagine a city, rebuilt block by block, with a gorgeous riverfront, world class museums and fantastic local food. Everyone who wants one has a quarter-acre garden, and every kid lives within bike distance of a farm."
Visit my blog, where you can find out more about my columns, or what I just cooked. You can also join me on Facebook or Twitter.Imagine. If the journey is as important as the destination, Detroit is already succeeding. And we can all learn from what seems to be the city's unofficial slogan: "We can do better than this."

        
Don't End Agricultural Subsidies, Fix Them
        
All Tomorrow's Taxis
        
The Public Square Goes Mobile
        
Living With Mies
        
It Takes a Neighborhood

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); RETAILERS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (69%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (68%); GARDENING (65%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (50%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (50%) cities; communities; detroit; farms; gardens; urban renewal; Agriculture; Local Food; Detroit (Mich); Mark Bittman

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (97%) MICHIGAN, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



546 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Exploring Roots of Climate Stasis, and Next Steps

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: The three myths that have for too long propped up climate diplomacy.

 BODY:
David Roberts, the Grist blogger, has written a double-barreled book review for the American Prospect that's well worth reading. It explores "The Climate War," Eric Pooley's deconstruction of the long, and ultimately failed, effort to pass a comprehensive climate bill in the United States. But Roberts focuses most on David Victor's new book "Global Warming Gridlock," which I'm way overdue to read. Victor, from the University of California, San Diego, has been a frequent and welcome voice on Dot Earth.
The books mostly describe the array of forces that together make the climate and energy challenge a "super wicked problem." (At the bottom of this post is a link to a new effort by the Climate CoLab project at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to find new ways forward.)
The most interesting section in Roberts' piece examines Victor's list of three myths that have for too long propped up the global climate treaty talks: First is what Victor calls the scientist's myth, the idea that a clearer, stronger, louder scientific consensus about what level of warming is dangerous will change politics. But national leaders have overwhelming incentives to focus on their countries' short-term welfare, not on global dangers. "Most of these line-drawing efforts," he notes, "have very little real impact on policy."
Second is the environmentalist's myth that climate change is an "environmental problem," best addressed by treaties establishing targets and timetables for the reduction of harmful emissions. That model has worked for other environmental problems, most notably the Montreal Protocol reducing ozone-damaging chemicals, but it is badly suited to climate change, which is better seen as a problem of economics, infrastructure, and innovation.
Finally, there's the engineer's myth, which holds that climate change will be easy to tackle because inventors will develop new technologies to lower the cost of reducing pollution.Read the rest here. If you've read Victor's book, please offer more thoughts on what top-down efforts, through diplomacy or legislation, still make sense. One way or the other, get ready for a lot more "soft climate diplomacy."
Here's the news from M.I.T.:We are pleased to announce the launch of the 2011 Climate CoLab Contest. This year, the question that the CoLab poses is: How should the 21st century economy evolve bearing in mind the reality of climate change?
This year's contest will feature two competition pools: Global, whose proposals outline how a feature of the world economy should evolve, Regional/national, whose proposals outline how a feature of a regional or national economy should evolve....Fill out your profile and start debating and brainstorming.... Learn more about this year's contest at http://climatecolab.org.

        
Climate and Energy Beyond Cancun 
        
On Climate Treaties and Christmas Trees
        
A 'Shared Vision' on Climate, With a Glitch
        
Coal Trends Still Rule Climate Talks
        
Seeking Crowd-Sourced Climate Pacts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); EMISSIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); OZONE DEPLETION (71%); CHEMICALS & ENVIRONMENT (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%) climate bill; climate treaty; david victor; diplomacy; Economics; Global Warming; politics; unfccc; Pooley, Eric; Roberts, David; Books and Literature; Environment; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Treaties; United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change; United States International Relations; Massachusetts Institute of Technology; United States; books; Climate Change; energy; environmental policy

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%) Massachusetts Institute of Technology

PERSON: Pooley, Eric; Roberts, David

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



547 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The All Clunk, No Cash Edition

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The phasing out of car-scrappage incentives led French automakers Renault and Peugeot to report depressed sales for April.

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 In contrast to robust earnings reports from their American, German and Korean counterparts, Peugeot and Renault reported on Tuesday that their April sales decreased by 18 percent and 13 percent, respectively, relative to a year ago. Analysts cited the phasing out of European car-scrappage incentives, similar to the so-called cash for clunkers initiative in the United States, for the weak performance. (Bloomberg)
 The German government is doubling its financing of research and development aid for electric vehicles. Chancellor Angela Merkel announced on Monday that by 2013 she expected 2 billion euros ($2.8 billion) to be allocated to projects related to battery and charging-infrastructure development. German officials have set a goal of putting 1 million E.V.'s on the roads by 2020. (Spiegel Online)
 Saab announced on Monday that it entered into a memorandum of understanding with Pang Da, the largest publicly traded car distributor in China. The deal would give Pang Da a 24 percent equity stake in Spyker, Saab's parent company, and would allow production to resume at the Swedish automaker's Trollhattan factory, which has been idle for six weeks. An earlier deal with the Hawtai Motor Group, a Chinese passenger-car brand, fell through last week. (The New York Times)
 The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration has proposed a revision of motorcycle helmet laws. If adopted, the measure would aid state and local law agencies to more effectively enforce existing helmet laws and would also revise the standards for helmet-safety compliance. According to the agency, manufacturers of so-called novelty helmets mislead consumers by affixing labels and stickers that suggest their helmets are certified compliant, when they are not. (N.H.T.S.A. pdf)
 Gerard Carlton Lovely, the first driver to win a race at Laguna Seca in California, died on May 15 in Tacoma, Wash. He was 85. Lovely won the inaugural race at the California track in 1957 in a Ferrari. He later raced for Team Lotus in Formula One, earning top 10 finishes at the Canadian and Mexican Grand Prix in 1969. Lovely was a fixture of the heritage race circuit, competing in a Lotus Eleven Series II, designed and built by the founder of Lotus, Colin Chapman, who was an associate of Lovely. (Vintage Motorsport)

        
Wheelies: The Still-Searching Edition
        
Wheelies: The Mustang Edition
        
Saab, in Negotiations, Shuts Down Production
        
Wheelies: The Mixed-Blessings Edition
        
Hyundai Kia Overtakes Ford, While G.M. Threatens Toyota in 2010 Global Sales

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); VEHICLE HELMET REGULATION (86%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (76%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (75%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); EURO (71%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); CONSUMER LAW (69%); FORMULA ONE RACING (58%) n.h.t.s.a.; peugeot; Renault; saab; Spyker Cars; Automobiles; National Highway Traffic Safety Administration; Peugeot SA; Renault SA; Saab Automobile AB; Peugeot SA|PEUGY|other-OTC; Electric Vehicles; Fuel Efficiency; Industry News; Motorcycles; safety

COMPANY: T SA AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (82%) National Highway Traffic Safety Administration; Peugeot SA; Renault SA; Saab Automobile AB; Spyker Cars

TICKER: Peugeot SA; PEUGY; other-OTC

INDUSTRY: SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (65%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



548 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: Do Do That Voodoo

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Paul Ryan, same as he ever was.

 BODY:
So Paul Ryan gave his big speech defending his plan -- and demonstrated, in case you were wondering, that there's no there there (and there never was).
Remember how everyone declared that Ryan was a serious person, truly willing to face up to our deficit problem? Well, now he's out there denouncing the way "the budget debate has degenerated into a game of green-eyeshade arithmetic" -- in other words, enough with all these numbers. And his answer to the deficit now is that we have to grow our way out.
There's a name for that: voodoo economics.
And in fact almost his whole speech was standard supply-side boilerplate. Low taxes are the secret to growth, nobody ever solved a deficit problem by raising taxes (Clinton, anyone?). He even denounced austerity. The only original things he had to say, if you can call them that, involved health care costs and monetary policy. 
On health care costs, he declared that "Our plan is to give seniors the power to deny business to inefficient providers." Remember, what the plan actually does is hand out vouchers whose value will fall well short of the cost of coverage. So how much power do those Americans who can't afford decent health insurance have right now in their dealings with providers? If you think people who don't get coverage through their employers have the upper hand, you believe that the Ryan plan is empowering.
And then there's the claim that hard money is the key to growth. Milton Friedman turned over in his grave.
Basically, again, what we're getting here is standard right-wing voodoo. Ryan turns out to be an empty suit, parroting the usual line. What's remarkable is that for a year or so this empty suit was hailed -- by self-proclaimed centrists as well as the right -- as a brilliant, brave champion of fiscal responsibility.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); BUDGETS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MONETARY POLICY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



549 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: The World Economic Order, Circa 2025

BYLINE: MOTOKO RICH


HIGHLIGHT: A World Bank report sees China and five emerging economies as the leading engines of growth, and the dollar sharing primacy with the European and Chinese currencies.

 BODY:
With China overtaking Japan as the world's second-largest economy last year, there can be no doubt that emerging markets are becoming increasingly powerful.
A new report from the World Bank predicts that by 2025, China, along with five other emerging economies - Brazil, India, Indonesia, South Korea and Russia - will account for more than half of all global growth, up from one-third now.
The report, "Global Development Horizons 2011 - Multipolarity: The New Global Economy," also anticipates that the dollar will be joined by the euro and the renminbi as dominant international currencies. The Chinese government is already easing currency controls and has taken other steps to help the renminbi become a fully convertible reserve currency, which would make it easier for foreign companies to finance projects in China.
Hans Timmer, director of development prospects for the World Bank, said in an interview that despite the current sovereign debt crises roiling Europe, the euro remained a strong and viable currency. "With all the problems they have had in the past 10 years, they have been successful," Mr. Timmer said. "A big part of global reserves is denominated in euros. There is more borrowing going on in euros. As a reserve currency, dollars are still dominant, but countries are drifting away from the dollar into the euro."According to the report, the fast-growing developing countries will continue to outpace those in the developed world - mainly Europe, Japan, Britain and the United States. The emerging economies will grow at an average pace of 4.7 percent a year between now and 2025, while the developed countries will grow at an average of 2.3 percent.
For developing countries to keep up growth rates, the report's authors write, they will have to innovate their own technologies and improve productivity.
Mansoor Dailami, the lead author of the report, said there was growing evidence that developing countries were beginning to invest in research and development that would lead to new technologies. He pointed to data showing that of the top 1,000 companies investing in research and development in 2009, 114 of them were from emerging economies. He also cited an increasing number of patents and scientific articles generated by researchers in developing countries.
Another key driver of growth for emerging economies, which have grown exponentially by offering cheap labor and low-priced consumer goods to developed countries, will be the ability to get their citizens to spend more on domestically produced goods and services.
Mr. Timmer said the evolution toward domestic consumer spending would come naturally. In China, for example, the demographics of the population is shifting toward older age, which in turn tends to force savings rates - currently high in Asian countries - down.
"Elderly people don't earn, but they do spend," Mr. Timmer said. "So from a macroeconomic perspective there is more consumption relative to earnings." He added that with rising income levels in emerging countries, consumers would naturally begin spending more on domestically produced goods. And maturing economies develop larger service sectors, which tend to be locally staffed and financed.
Mr. Timmer said that the United States needed to view the shift in economic power as an opportunity rather than a threat. "There will be increased future opportunities for the U.S. increasingly to export more advanced products and more luxury products into those new emerging countries," he said.
He added that it was also a matter of perspective. "There is a lot of cross-border investment between Europe and the U.S. going into Europe and coming out of Europe," he noted. "And those are win-win solutions for all the companies involved. That is a picture that is very well understood by companies and governments, but when you talk about relationships with emerging economies, suddenly people are afraid."

        
How to Rebuild a War-Torn Nation
        
A Conversation With Barry Eichengreen
        
The Outlook for China's Currency
        
Podcast: Good Euros, Bad Euros and Market Worries
        
That's One Way to Lift Your Economy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (92%); CURRENCIES (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (91%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); EURO (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); TRENDS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); WRITERS (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (62%); PATENTS (62%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%) developing countries; dollar; euro; renminbi; World Bank; Economic Conditions and Trends; Euro (Currency); Renminbi (Currency); Third World and Developing Countries; US Dollar (Currency)

ORGANIZATION: World Bank

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (98%); JAPAN (93%); INDIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (92%); INDONESIA (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



550 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Releases Message Urging Stronger Rent Laws

BYLINE: THOMAS KAPLAN


HIGHLIGHT: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo says a failure to extend rent regulation laws would be a crisis for the state.

 BODY:
ALBANY - Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo released a video message on Tuesday in which he reaffirmed his support for the renewal and strengthening of rent regulation laws, an issue that has been largely overshadowed in recent days as the governor toured the state pressing his other legislative priorities.
Mr. Cuomo said that it would be "a crisis for our state" if the State Legislature failed to extend the rent laws beyond their scheduled June 15 expiration date.
"What we need to do is extend and strengthen our rent regulation laws," he said in the video, "and we need to do it now." 
Mr. Cuomo, who noted in the video that he had served as federal housing secretary in the Clinton administration, said last month that he supported a "most aggressive" strengthening of rent laws, which limit what landlords can charge on more than one million apartments in New York City and its suburbs. 
In March, the governor sought to include the extension of rent regulations and a limit on local property taxes in the state budget. But he abandoned that plan after facing resistance from Republicans in the State Senate, and he has been largely quiet on the subject of rent regulations since then.
A statewide tour he began last week to press his legislative agenda has focused on three other legislative priorities: passing a property tax cap, overhauling ethics rules and legalizing same-sex marriage.
The State Assembly approved legislation last month to extend and strengthen rent protections. But the issue has drawn little interest in the Senate, where Republicans for years have been tepid about extending rent protections, let alone strengthening them.
In the video, Mr. Cuomo did not provide any details on what provisions he would seek to strengthen rent protections. But he said that the issue should be "an important part" of the agenda for the rest of this year's legislative session, which ends in a month.
"Please contact your state legislators," he said, "and urge them to extend and strengthen our state's rent laws."

        
Democrats Press Cuomo on Rent Regulations
        
Harassment Is Focus of Chinatown Tenants' Suit
        
Tenant Groups Sue Rent Control Board
        
Ask About Rent Stabilization
        
Cuomo Pushes Back on Ethics Reform

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RENT CONTROL (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ETHICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TAX LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POLITICS (76%); PROPERTY TAX (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); MARRIAGE LAW (73%); BUDGETS (73%); APPROVALS (67%); GAYS & LESBIANS (64%); MARRIAGE (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Andrew M. Cuomo; rent stabilization; rents; Cuomo, Andrew M; Rent Control and Stabilization; Albany; Government & Politics; Highlights; Housing & Economy

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (94%) Cuomo, Andrew M

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (89%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



551 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links by the reporters and editors of the Dining section.

 BODY:
A collection of links by the reporters and editors of the Dining section.
The Wall Street Journal: The Department of Agriculture is proposing to eliminate all potatoes but sweet potatoes from federally subsidized school breakfasts and to limit them sharply at lunch. -- Nick Fox 
The New Yorker: Forget trimmings, now it's...lab meat? Tissue engineers and stem-cell biologists are toiling to grow test-tube muscle meat never connected to an actual animal. Will it taste like chicken? Weirdly manufactured, ethically interesting and wildly expensive, yes, but PETA approves! (subscription is required for more than a summary) -- Glenn Collins Wall Street Journal: Excellent reader on Texas catfish noodling and the state's efforts to stop it. -- Sam Sifton
Slate: Oh, that contentious debate on high alcohol in wine. Mike Steinberger tries to stake out a middle ground. -- Eric Asimov 
Use Real Butter: Photographer Jennifer Yu, just back from Hawaii: scroll down for the fruits of her research into malasadas, Hawaiian doughnuts of Portuguese descent. -- Julia Moskin
The Guardian: Nigella, Heston, Gordon, Jamie. Looking back at a decade in British food. -- Jeff Gordinier 
The Economist: Under the headline "Let them eat maize husks," an analysis of starvation in North Korea, which appears to have affected even some Army units. Strangely, however, the black market price of rice has fallen, provoking speculation that Kim Jong Il is actually hoarding rice to insure a bumper crop for the 2012 celebrations of the 100th birthday of the late Kim Il Sung. -- Glenn Collins 
USA Today: The newspaper looks at rising prices in American restaurants -- at least the fast-casual, out-by-the-mall kind. -- Sam Sifton
Food52: By day, Jennifer Steinhauer covers Congress for The New York Times. At night she's Jenny, intrepid cook and contributor to this marvelous Web site. Here's her smoking-good recipe for spaghetti with shrimp, broccolini and basil. -- Sam Sifton
Gastronomy blog: A recipe for bo bia, the spicier, chewier cousin of Vietnamese summer rolls. -- Julia Moskin
Decanter: LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton has signed a deal with a Chinese company to make high-end sparkling wine in China. -- Eric Asimov 
The Drinks Business: Little-known trend assessed: Around the wine-making world, producers in the last decade have been experimenting with fermenting wines in concrete vats shaped like eggs. Why, you ask? -- Eric Asimov
Boston Globe: An environmental success story south of Boston, as a clam bed along the South River near Marshfield and Scituate opens for the first time in 20 years. -- Sam Sifton
The Price Hike: Meanwhile, Ryan Sutton, the wry restaurant critic for Bloomberg, updates his excellent Tumblr page devoted to the same subject in more luxe establishments. -- Sam Sifton
Romenesko: The new Associated Press stylebook has a section on food terms, like locavore and huitlacoche. -- Nick Fox
Dinner: A Love Story: Sometimes it's time for pretzel chicken. -- Jeff Gordinier Poetry Foundation: Foodie drama at the bagel shop in this poem by Kiki Petrosino. -- Jeff Gordinier

        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); STARVATION (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); BIOETHICS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (75%); WINE (73%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (73%); WINERIES (73%); BAKED GOODS (72%); BIOLOGY (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); ARMIES (53%) What We're Reading

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (93%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (65%)

ORGANIZATION: PEOPLE FOR THE ETHICAL TREATMENT OF ANIMALS (57%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (65%); LVMH (BIT) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (65%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (65%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



552 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1781 words

HEADLINE: Body of a Nation: Examining the Role of the Mississippi River in American History

BYLINE: SARAH KAVANAGH, HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO and KATHERINE SCHULTEN


HIGHLIGHT: Researching historical eras in which major events happened with respect to the Mississippi River and reflecting on the larger meaning of those events and of the river itself in American culture and identity. 

 BODY:
Overview | What roles has the Mississippi River played throughout United States history? How has the river been central to struggles to define "America" and "American"? In this lesson, students examine what life was like on the banks of the Mississippi River during pivotal moments in American history. They will then write diary entries from the perspective of riverbank residents during different historical eras. 
Materials | Stations prepared as described in the warm-up, computers with Internet access (optional) and research materials on the Mississippi River
Warm-up | Before class, you will need to prepare five to eight "stations" around the classroom. (The number of stations will depend on the density of the documents you choose as well as the ability of your students to read and respond to them independently.) Each station should feature a sheet of poster paper on which you have pasted a document or an image related to the Mississippi River. You may wish to consider some of the following resources to use or excerpt:

        
1944 map of the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers
        
New York Times photographs of the spring 2011 Mississippi river floods
        
photographs from the 2006 Times audio slide show "Moving the Mississippi"
        
Civil War-era map of fortifications along the Mississippi River from KnowLA, the Encyclopedia of Louisiana
        
An 1860 lithograph that depicts Louis the XIV taking possession of the Mississippi River, also from KnowLA
        
The poem "The Negro Speaks of Rivers" by Langston Hughes
        
The lyrics to "Louisiana, 1927" by Randy Newman
        
A quotation from Mark Twain about the Mississippi, like "When I find a well-drawn character in fiction or biography I generally take a warm personal interest in him, for the reason that I have known him before -- met him on the river."
        
Facts and quotations about the Mississippi from New York Times articles
Have students rotate through every station with pens or markers in hand. At each station, they read and respond to the featured text or image by writing a short comment or question on the blank poster board space surrounding it. 
As students circulate in small groups around the various stations and add more to their understanding of the topic, encourage them to have a "conversation on paper," in which they may write responses to previous comments and questions. When students eventually return to their original stations, they should read the comments written by others who responded after them and post a final response.
When finished, bring the class together to debrief this "text-on-text" activity: What text or image stuck out to them? Why? What theme ties all of these texts and images together? Did looking at these texts and photographs alongside each other give students a new perspective of the Mississippi River? How? What is happening along the banks of the Mississippi River today? 
Related | The article "The Untamable Mississippi River" includes an excerpt from a Pulitzer Prize-winning collection of articles on the 1993 flooding of the Mississippi River:
There have been floods before. People in Hannibal, Mo., or Keokuk, Iowa, or Quincy, Ill., can tell you about watching their fathers and uncles pack sandbags to protect the year's corn crop or the feed store. For generations, some farmers figured floods and droughts into the cost of doing business. But then the country's big plumbing system of levees and dams, made better after every flood, was supposed to keep the rivers in their place and maintain the comfortable paradox of living on a floodplain. 
Now the unimaginable has happened. Across the Midwestern cornbelt it has rained in biblical proportions - 49 straight days, often in torrents. The rivers, driven past their banks, have taken back land that long ago was theirs, invading 15 million acres of farmland in eight states, forcing 36,000 people from their homes, halting river traffic for 600 miles and causing billions of dollars in damage.
Read the entire article with your class, using the questions below.
Questions | For discussion and reading comprehension: 

        
What event is being described in this article?
        
What metaphors and similes are used in this piece? How effective are they in painting a picture of the events for the reader?
        
How does the author characterize the relationship between humans and nature in this piece? Why?
        
Why do you think The Times is publishing excerpts from a collection of articles from 1993 in 2011? What statement are the paper's editors making?
        
After reading this article, what more do you want to know about the Mississippi River?
Activity | Inform students that they will be examining how the Mississippi River has been central to the very definition and identity of the United States. Students will examine how the river has played a central role in shaping the American nation, both geographically and ideologically. 
To investigate these themes, students will work in groups to research what life was like along the banks of the Mississippi River during different historical eras. Divide the class into six groups and give each group one of the historical eras listed below, along with the suggested resources to get them started. The groups can also use the New York Times archives for research.
Their task is two-fold: to briefly describe major events during the time period, and to identify two or three distinct groups of people who may have had different perspectives on those events, including brief descriptions of those perspectives.
Sixteenth Century: Exploration
History.com: Hernando De Soto Reaches the Mississippi
U.S. History Images: Hernando De Soto's First View of the Mississippi
Southern Illinois University: Excerpts from "A narrative of De Soto's expedition based on the diary of Rodrigo Ranjel"
Era of American Slavery: The Role of the River in the Slave Trade
Mark Twain's Mississippi: African Americans in the Mississippi River Valley, 1850-1900
Slavery in America: Slave Populations in Mississippi
PBS: The Time of the Lincolns
1830's: Native American Life, Indian Removal and the Blackhawk War
Mark Twain's Mississippi: Native Americans and the Mississippi River Valley
Riverroads.com: Chief Blackhawk and the Blackhawk War
History Matters: Black Hawk Remembers Village Life Along the Mississippi
Ourdocuments.gov: President Andrew Jackson's Message to Congress: "On Indian Removal"
1860's: Life Along the Mississippi During the Civil War
National Park Service: The Civil War in the Lower Mississippi River Valley
Mississippi History: Vicksburg During the Civil War
History.com: The Union Siege of Vicksburg
1920's: The Great Mississippi Flood
National Geographic: The Great Flood
Risk Management Solutions: The 1927 Great Mississippi Flood (PDF)
PBS: The American Experience: Fatal Flood
Silent film from 1936 on the Mississippi River Flood of 1927
NAACP: Mistreatment of Black Workers
2000s: Hurricane Katrina and 2011 Floods
Times Topics: Hurricane Katrina and Mississippi River
White House: The Federal Response to Hurricane Katrina: Lessons Learned
Also, tell students that later they will be using the information that they gather to write diary entries about life along the Mississippi River during different historical eras, so they should keep good notes.
When research is complete, bring the class together to share what they learned about the major events that occurred along the banks of the Mississippi River during the era that they researched and the different groups of people who may have had different experiences of that event. 
After the presentations, discuss the following questions: Now that you are knowledgeable about the river's history, would you characterize the Mississippi river as a landmark that brings people together or pushes them apart? Why? What does the river represent in American history and culture, and for the American identity? Encourage students to draw on specifics from the presentations as they discuss these questions.
Going further | Individually, students write diary entries from the point of view of someone living on the banks of the Mississippi River during the era that they researched. Their diary entry should discuss at least one major event and should illuminate a bit about what daily life must have been like for residents on the banks of the river during that time. Encourage students to grapple with how nationhood and citizenship is being struggled over on the banks of the river, in symbolic, metaphoric or real ways. They might also do this in conjunction with reading a text set on the Mississippi River, like "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn," writing diary entries for Huck or Jim as they float on their raft.
Standards | This lesson is correlated to McREL's national standards (it can also be aligned to the new Common Core State Standards): 
Historical Understanding 
2. Understands the historical perspective
United States History 
10. Understands how the Industrial Revolution, increasing immigration, the rapid expansion of slavery, and the westward movement changed American lives and led to regional tensions
12. Understands the sources and character of cultural, religious and social reform movements in the antebellum period
14. Understands the course and character of the Civil War and its effects on the American people
29. Understands the struggle for racial and gender equality and for the extension of civil liberties
31. Understands economic, social and cultural developments in the contemporary United States
33. Understands the causes and consequences of the agricultural and industrial revolutions from 1700 to 1850
Geography 
6. Understands that culture and experience influence people's perceptions of places and regions.
12. Understands the patterns of human settlement and their causes. 
Behavioral Studies
1. Understands that group and cultural influences contribute to human development, identity and behavior
2. Understands various meanings of social group, general implications of group membership, and different ways that groups function
World History
29. Understands the economic, political and cultural interrelations among peoples of Africa, Europe and the Americas between 1500 and 1750
Civics
13. Understands the character of American political and social conflict and factors that tend to prevent or lower its intensity
14. Understands issues concerning the disparities between ideals and reality in American political and social life
Language Arts
1. Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process
4. Gathers and uses information for research purposes
7. Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies for reading a variety of informational texts
8. Demonstrates competence in speaking and listening as tools for learning

        
Fill-In | Zoo Animals Escape a Flood

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HISTORY (91%); RIVERS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (76%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (76%); GEOGRAPHY (75%); NATURAL DISASTERS (71%) Floods; Mississippi River; American History; Culture and Identity; Current Events; Environment and Society; Geography; History of North America; Lesson Plans; Maps; Natural Disasters; Witnessing History

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI RIVER (97%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Mississippi River

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2011



553 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: On Our Radar: Pesticides a Threat to Children's I.Q., Studies Find

BYLINE: JOHN COLLINS RUDOLF


HIGHLIGHT: From agricultural areas to low-income urban neighborhoods, prenatal exposure can have an impact on cognition and behavior, research indicates.

 BODY:
Prenatal exposure to pesticides -- common in agricultural areas as well as low-income urban neighborhoods, where the chemicals are used to control cockroaches and other insects -- can significantly affect a child's ability to succeed in school, a trio of new studies finds. "This is not trivial," a researcher says. [Yale Environment 360]
Britain's energy minister releases a plan that would reduce the country's greenhouse gas emissions by 50 percent from 1990 levels by 2025. The target is far more ambitious than the European Union's current goal, which seeks to cut emissions by 20 percent from 1990 levels by 2020. The plan must still be approved by lawmakers. [Agence France-Presse]
Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, slams a bill touted by his own party leadership that would speed up lease sales and permitting for offshore oil drilling. The bill, which will come up for a vote this week, "increases the burdens and requirements and hurdles" for drilling companies by requiring a third-party review of all oil-spill response plans, Mr. Vitter said in a floor statement. [The Hill]

        
On Our Radar: Senator Expects Vote on Delaying E.P.A. Rules
        
Gingrich's Energy Policies Rile Conservative Critics
        
Spill Reignites California's Anti-Drilling Fervor
        
A Carbon Price as a Nuclear Incentive
        
U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Projected to Grow Slowly

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PESTICIDES (92%); EMISSIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OIL SPILLS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); ENERGY REGULATION (76%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (76%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); POLITICS (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); OIL EXTRACTION (73%); APPROVALS (69%) Britain; Chris Huhne; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; greenhouse gas target; low-carbon economy; offshore drilling; oil spill response plan; pesticide; prenatal exposure; Sen. David Vitter; Vitter; Business; Energy Politics; Living; Science

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: DAVID VITTER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



554 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Paul Ryan Opts Out of Wisconsin Senate Run

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: An open Senate seat in Wisconsin apparently has Tommy G. Thompson, the former two-term governor and 2008 presidential candidate, mulling a return to politics.

 BODY:
The decision by longtime Senator Herb Kohl, Democrat of Wisconsin, to retire has started a scramble among Republicans to seize the electoral opportunity.
Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, made it clear on Tuesday that he would not run for the seat, opting instead to remain in the House and lead the Republican fight over the budget and national debt.
"Our nation is quickly approaching a debt crisis that will do serious damage to Wisconsinites and all Americans if it is not properly addressed," Mr. Ryan said in a statement on his Web site. "I believe continuing to serve as chairman of the House Budget Committee allows me to have a greater impact in averting this debt-fueled economic crisis than if I were to run for the United States Senate."
Mr. Ryan's decision has apparently played a role in prompting another veteran Wisconsin politician to consider seeking a return to the spotlight. Several news organizations, including Politico and National Journal, reported Tuesday that Tommy G. Thompson, the former two-term governor and 2008 presidential candidate, is mulling a run for the Senate seat.
Mr. Thompson, 69, could not be reached for comment. He has been out of office for more than a decade and hasn't run statewide in Wisconsin since 1998. In addition to his two terms as governor, he served as secretary of health and human services under President George W. Bush.
Last year, Mr. Thompson flirted publicly with the idea of running against Senator Russ Feingold, but decided against it. The renewed talk about jumping into the current Senate race could easily end with a similar decision.
At the same time, a Republican strategist in Washington confirmed that people close to Mr. Thompson privately said last week that Mr. Thompson would consider a Senate bid if Mr. Ryan chose to take a pass.
Even so, there are other likely Republican contenders in Wisconsin, including J.B. Van Hollen, the state's attorney general; Jim Michaels, a businessman who ran for the Senate in the state once before; and former Representative Mark Neumann, who expressed his interest in Mr. Kohl's Senate seat in a statement Tuesday.
"I am still seriously considering a U.S. Senate candidacy and listening to what the people of Wisconsin hope to see from their next senator," Mr. Neumann said. "It is clear that people are deeply concerned about the reckless spending and out-of-control deficits that are only getting worse in Washington. The question becomes who is best prepared to deal with this growing problem."
If Thompson does enter the race, he would have to confront concerns among Republicans about his role in developing Mr. Bush's Medicare prescription drug program. And Democrats have already started attacking -- just in case.
"Tommy G. Thompson has spent the last decade doing the bidding of the Bush administration and his special interest clients at his lobbying firm," said Matt Canter, a spokesman for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.

        
Republicans Bet Public Will Reward Them for Proposing Cuts
        
Thompson Won't Run for Senate
        
LeMieux Jumps Into Florida Republican Senate Primary 
        
Congress's Big Budget Week
        
Who Wins and Who Loses if Bachmann Runs in 2012?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (64%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (61%); MEDICARE (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) 2012; Paul Ryan; Senate; tommy thompson; Wisconsin; Wisconsin Senate race; Ryan, Paul D Jr; Thompson, Tommy G; United States Politics and Government; Elections; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Senate

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (96%); TOMMY THOMPSON (90%); HERB KOHL (73%); RUSS FEINGOLD (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%) Ryan, Paul D Jr; Thompson, Tommy G

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



555 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Obama and Jordan's King Abdullah Talk of Mideast Peace

BYLINE: MARK LANDLER


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama tells Jordan's king that the United States remains committed to helping broker a peace agreement between Israel and the Palestinians.

 BODY:
President Obama welcomed King Abdullah of Jordan to the White House on Tuesday and declared that the United States remained committed to helping broker a peace agreement in the Middle East.
"We both share the view that despite the many changes, or perhaps because of the many changes, it's more vital than ever that the Israelis and Palestinians find a way to get back to the table," Mr. Obama said to reporters in the Oval Office, with the king sitting next to him.
"We will continue to partner to encourage an equitable and just solution to an issue that has been nagging the region for many, many years," Mr. Obama added.
The president's meeting with King Abdullah kicks off a busy few days of Middle East diplomacy. Mr. Obama is scheduled to give a major speech on the political upheaval in the Arab world on Thursday. He will meet with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel on Friday, and on Sunday, will address the American Israeli Public Affairs Committee, a major pro-Israel lobbying group. 
But the activity comes against one of the most negative backdrops for the peace process in years. Israeli security forces clashed with Palestinian protestors in border areas on Sunday, the first time the Arab upheaval has touched Israel directly. The Palestinian Authority recently signed an agreement with the militant group Hamas, which Mr. Netanyahu condemned as antithetical to peace.
Though Mr. Obama is expected to address how the peace process fits into the broader changes in the Middle East, officials said they did not expect him to lay out a detailed American blueprint to revive the negotiations, which have been paralyzed since September.
Mr. Obama also announced American aid for Jordan, which he said would help the government accelerate its economic reforms.
For his part, King Abdullah praised Mr. Obama for his efforts to move the peace process forward, saying, "I will continue to be a strong partner to you in all the issues we face."

        
Obama Defends 'Limited' Role in Libya
        
Will Obama Speech Address Region or Just Libya?
        
Obama Talks to Muslim Entrepreneurs 
        
Fla.'s Wexler to Resign From House Seat
        
Obama Arrives to Ceremonial Welcome in Saudia Arabia

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (92%); PEACE PROCESS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); HAMAS (76%); LOBBYING (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%) jordan; Middle East; The 44th President

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (98%); JORDAN (97%); MIDDLE EAST (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



556 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Race and Republican Attacks on Obama

BYLINE: MATT BAI


HIGHLIGHT: Race and cultural otherness were powerful undercurrents in Republican politics long before the nation's first black president came along.

 BODY:
Newt Gingrich did his level best to appear level in his "Meet the Press" interview Sunday, maintaining a mostly subdued, thoughtful tone except for one telling moment - when David Gregory, the host, asked him if his labeling of President Obama as the "food stamp president" might have racist connotations. "Oh, come on," the former House speaker huffed. "That's bizarre." All he meant, Mr. Gingrich went on to explain, was that Mr. Obama's policies would turn all of America into Detroit, which probably didn't endear him to Eminem.
That exchange led to some spirited discussion among me and my fellow round-table analysts, both on and off camera. The Washington Post columnist E.J. Dionne accused Mr. Gingrich of "doubling down" on racial connotations by choosing Detroit to make his point. I tweeted from the green room that Mr. Gingrich's listing of American identity as a core theme of his campaign sounded "ominous" and, when asked to explain this, I said it sounded like an appeal to a "dark current in American politics."
But Peggy Noonan, the Wall Street Journal columnist, rejected this interpretation. If there were a "dark current" running through the attacks on Mr. Obama, she told us, it represented a kind of conspiratorial populism in American politics generally and had nothing to do with racism.
This is a debate that is likely to surface many more times in the next 18 months, no matter whom the Republicans nominate, and the truth seems to me a little more complex than partisans on either side might suggest. 
Is there a racial element to some of the attacks on President Obama? It's pretty hard to argue there isn't, when a conservative writer like Dinesh D'Souza argues that Mr. Obama sees the world like an African nationalist (a theory Mr. Gingrich praised again in his interview Sunday), or when Donald J. Trump asserts that Mr. Obama isn't smart enough to have gotten into Harvard or to have written his own books.
But here's the thing: race and cultural otherness were powerful undercurrents in Republican politics long before the nation's first black president came along. The infamous Willie Horton ad that George Bush deployed against Michael Dukakis in 1988, you may recall, was more overtly racist than anything Mr. Obama had to parry 20 years later. Bill Clinton, John Kerry and Al Gore were all portrayed as being well outside America's white, Christian mainstream.
Mr. Gingrich's "food stamp" line is an homage of sorts to Ronald Reagan's "welfare queens." This business about turning America into Detroit is exactly the kind of thing Mr. Reagan would have said, if he hadn't been so busy trying to win Michigan's electoral votes.
So to say that Mr. Obama is being cast as somehow alien to the white American experience simply because he is black really does miss the point. He would still be cast in this way if he were an urban, northern Democrat who happened to be white. The fact that Mr. Obama is black may even blunt the attack to some extent, because Republican challengers have to be more careful in how they raise these kinds of cultural issues than they would with your standard-issue white liberal.
In fact, there are tactical reasons for Republicans to consider scrapping the cultural argument altogether when it comes to Mr. Obama, or at least minimizing it.
After all, we have now reached the point where a 45-year-old American voter has no memory of civil rights marches or the silent majority and grew up in a society where overt racism was uniformly stigmatized. In this new environment, you're probably not well advised to make racial alienation a centerpiece of your campaign, unless you want to offend half the voting public, including most of the independent voters who decide the outcome of a general election.
Beyond that, of course, there are basic responsibilities of political leadership. Themes of otherness are always most prevalent, and most dangerous, at moments of economic or existential anxiety; think of the Know-Nothings or the Red Scare. History tells us that giving them voice does nothing to address the issues of the day. The job of true leaders in such a moment isn't to leap into that dark current I was talking about, but rather to point their followers toward some more ennobling way downstream.

        
Romney Confronts Health Care Questions
        
Gingrich Run Reflects His Sense of History
        
Republicans Bet Public Will Reward Them for Proposing Cuts
        
Gingrich Urges Lawmakers Not to Give on 'Core Principles'
        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); WRITERS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%) 2012; bill clinton; Democrats; newt gingrich; president obama; presidential race; race; racism; Republicans; Ronald Reagan; Elections; Political Times; The 44th President; The White House

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%); AL GORE (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



557 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Reaching the Limit

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington.

 BODY:
Today's Times Treasury Secretary, Timothy F. Geithner made it official Monday. As projected, the government has reached its $14.3 trillion debt limit. Mr. Geithner told Congress that his department had begun taking what he has called "extraordinary measures" to meet obligations while lawmakers and President Obama seek a deal to raise the limit. But though the government will have exhausted its borrowing powers by Aug. 2, the House is in recess all week and budget talks between Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Congressional leaders are on hold, the Times's Jackie Calmes reports. The Obama administration will not seek Congressional approval of free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama and South Korea until Republicans agree to expand assistance for American workers who might lose jobs as a result. The three deals have become a pillar of Mr. Obama's foreign and economic policy, but the Times's Binyamin Appelbaum writes that the ultimatum reflects the political difficulty of advancing deals in the face of high unemployment. In a four-hour visit to Memphis, President Obama was able to highlight one of his major domestic initiatives - secondary education - as well as offer sympathy to victims of the recent flooding of the Mississippi River. The Times's Mark Landler reports on Mr. Obama's speech at the commencement at Booker T. Washington High School, which won the White House Race to the Top Challenge this year. "Yes, you're from South Memphis," Mr. Obama told the graduating class. "Yes, you've always been underdogs. No one has handed you anything. But that also means that whatever you accomplish in your lives, you will have earned it." Donald J. Trump will not seek the presidency in 2012. The Times's Jim Rutenberg explores how Mr. Trump was able to make use of a media culture that increasingly seems to give the spotlight to the loudest, most outrageous voices.Around the Web On Sunday, Newt Gingrich, candidate for the Republican presidential nomination, rebuked his party's budget proposal with criticism that accused them of "right-wing social engineering." On Monday, Republicans rebuked back, with Politico reporting that several lawmakers said Mr. Gingrich is taking cheap shots at his party mates without putting out a Medicare plan himself. Mitt Romney raised $10.25 million yesterday during a call-a-thon that served as "the unofficial kick-off to his campaign," Politico reports. What kind of numbers would an official kick-off rake in?Happenings in Washington President Obama will meet with King Abdullah II of Jordan at the White House today before hosting a reception for Jewish American Heritage Month.

        
The Early Word: Medicare
        
The Weekend Word: Stepping Down
        
The Early Word: Accused
        
The Early Word: The Next Step
        
The Early Word: Spotlight

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%) The Early Word; The Caucus

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOE BIDEN (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (56%); DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (90%) TENNESSEE, USA (90%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (69%) UNITED STATES (95%); PANAMA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); JORDAN (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



558 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: How Do You Define Wealthy?

BYLINE: HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: What would you want to be able to do with your money to consider yourself well-off as opposed to middle class?

 BODY:
To separate the middle class from the wealthy, federal income tax policy sets the dividing line at $250,000 for family income. But some people have disputed that policy, arguing that there's a big difference between earning a quarter of a million dollars a year - especially in a high-cost-of-living area - and earning millions or even billions. What do you think? How do you define "wealthy"? How much do you think a family needs to earn to be considered wealthy by the government? 
In the Week in Review article "Rich and Sort of Rich," Andrew Ross Sorkin reviews the background for the $250,000 threshold and the current dispute over its validity:Whatever the policy debates, households at President Obama's dividing line might be wealthy, but that doesn't mean they feel wealthy.
On a Yahoo message board, a poster named Mason, who lives in Manhattan with two young children, said his household income was $262,000. "I understand the need to raise taxes," he wrote, "but I don't understand why people like us are lumped in with millionaires and billionaires."
On one level, Mason is feeling the effects of inflation; $250,000 isn't what it used to be. If Mr. Obama were really trying to return to Mr. Clinton's 1993 levels, he would have to adjust the bracket for inflation, moving it up to about $386,075. In fact, in Mr. Clinton's last year in office, the top bracket had risen to $288,350 from $250,000.
Then there is the problem of keeping up with the Joneses. In 1993, earning $250,000 was a more exclusive club, making it easier to feel like one of the wealthy. Back then, households making more than $200,000 represented about .08 percent of the country.
And today, $250,000 households tend to be clustered on the coasts, where there are often better-paying jobs.Students: Tell us how you would define wealth, both in real life and for fiscal policy. What factors would you take into account in addition to salary and earnings? Would you consider yourself wealthy if your family earned $250,000 a year? How about $500,00? Or $1 million? What would you want to be able to do with your money for you to consider yourself well-off as opposed to middle class? Should the government raise the threshold? If not, why not? If so, to what earning level?
Students 13 and older are invited to comment below. Please use only your first name. For privacy policy reasons, we will not publish student comments that include a last name.

        
What Does 'Middle Class' Mean to You?
        
No Taxation Without Calculation: Filling Out Tax Returns
        
The Tax Deal: The Basics
        
Should Sugary Drinks Be Taxed?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); CHILDREN (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (50%) middle class; socioeconomic class; taxes; wealth; Student Opinion

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



559 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Greece Has Ways to Fix Debt Woes, but All Lead to Misery

BYLINE: STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF


HIGHLIGHT: The European Union has a number of options to restructure Greece's debt; the trick is to allow the euro to survive and to stem any further collapse of Greece or other at-risk countries.

 BODY:
What should be done with Greece?
The country that gave birth to Western civilization appears increasingly likely to be the first euro sovereign to restructure its debt. It all has the potential to be a mess.
Nonetheless, Europeans do have a number of options to restructure Greece's debt.
The hard trick is to do it in a manner that allows the euro to survive and to stem any further collapse of Greece or other at-risk countries.
Europe can look to a long history of debt defaults by sovereign nations for precedent. In recent times there have been debt restructurings by Argentina, Mexico, Pakistan, Uruguay and Russia, and they have largely taken two forms when voluntary.
The first form is accomplished through the voluntary participation of debt holders. The mild tonic of debt restructuring involves extending maturities and lowering interest rates on the country's debt. The harsher brew involves exchanging debt with a lower value to those debt holders who voluntarily participate. These restructurings, like one by Uruguay in 2002, succeed because the debt, like Greece's, is trading at such a heavy discount. New debt is offered at effectively better terms than the trading price of the current debt, thereby giving the debt holders an incentive to participate.
Greece is different though. It does not have its own currency. In addition, some 90 percent of Greek bonds are under Greek law. This allows Greece much more latitude to deal with the crisis. The Greek Parliament can simply amend Greek law to restructure the debt without the consent of the debt holders.
It is for this reason that the small percentage of Greek bonds issued under English law trade at a premium. They cannot be so modified by the Greek government.
Beyond these more standard options, the nuclear one is for Greece to exit the euro for a period to allow it to devalue its currency to afford these debts. But the terms of Greece's debt may require it to pay back this debt in euros anyway, making such a switch much harder to carry out without these other strong-arm tactics.
So what will Europe do?
The European Central Bank appears adamant that debt reduction is too dangerous, while Germany has been demanding that there be pain for Greece. All agree a euro exit would be catastrophic. The managing director of the International Monetary Fund, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, was to have been the mediator among these parties, but his arrest in New York on sexual assault charges has ended his involvement.
Among all of the options, extending the maturity of Greece's debt appears to be the most likely and politically palatable. The European Union can claim that it is still paying Greece's obligations in full while also showing to Germany and other Northern European nations that there is pain for the bondholders.
If these debt maturities are extended a few years, the European Union would not have to cover the looming private financing gap Greece faces. In such a case, the accountants may still allow European banks that hold billions in Greek debt to still value it at 100 cents on the dollar, allowing them to avoid their own solvency issues and allow time to build up reserves. The European Central Bank can thus avoid haircuts or defaults that might affect the other troubled European countries or European banks.
But in truth a maturity extension or interest rate reduction simply postpones the problem if Greece's debt burden is still too high. Planned Greek asset sales may be enough to remedy some of the difference, but it is unlikely that they will be sufficient for all of it. Because of this, the economist Nouriel Roubini and other hard-liners advocate an orderly restructuring and debt write-down from the get-go.
Europe is moving to adopt a legal debt-restructuring scheme for bonds issued after 2013 modeled after the I.M.F.'s own unsuccessful sovereign debt restructuring mechanism. It is at that time that Europe's promise that no haircuts will occur on European private sovereign debt expires.
Coincidentally, this is when another more aggressive Greek restructuring may be about to occur if the Europeans start this year with a restructuring that simply extends debt maturities. But at this point the European Union and the I.M.F. will be the largest creditors of Greece, holding about 110 billion euros in Greek debt. The European Central Bank will own tens of billions more in Greek debt acquired by propping up Greek banks.
As Lee C. Buchheit and Mitu Gulati state in an excellent paper summarizing these issues, a debt restructuring in 2013 or later will mean that "the sword of a debt restructuring ... will fall principally on the neck of the official sector lenders." In other words, the European Union will have to share this pain. At this point, the maturity for the European Union and private holders may again be extended. And the extension is likely to last for decades to allow the debt's value to be eaten away by inflation.
But this is the mild case for 2013. By that time, harsher action may be necessary if any restructuring made now is not effective.
In all of these cases, though, many of these holders are likely to use past experience to fight a restructuring, possibly in the courts. Who holds Greek debt is unclear. But there may be hedge funds and other professional debt arbitragers willing to take up such a battle.
These restructurings can take months to achieve when done efficiently and years when not. Choosing the right course requires a political body that remains committed and focused. Even before the arrest of Mr. Strauss-Kahn, Europeans were wavering on bailouts. It is going to be difficult for Europe's political representatives and their public to agree on what to do and stay the course.
The European financial ministers will truly have to display nerve and ability to support their financially troubled brethren. With Greece, unfortunately, uncertainty and pain appear to be the most likely outcome. Portugal and Ireland may be next.

        
Debtors' Prism: Who Has Europe's Loans?
        
The Transatlantic Crisis: Europe's Endangered Banks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); BONDS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); CURRENCIES (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); BOND ISSUES (65%); ARRESTS (65%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (60%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (60%); SEX OFFENSES (60%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%) European Central Bank; european debt crisis; European Union; Greece; International Monetary Fund; Euro (Currency); European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Deal Professor; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%) European Central Bank; European Union; International Monetary Fund

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (68%) EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (97%); GREECE (95%); GERMANY (92%); ENGLAND (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (68%) Greece

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



560 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: Guiding a Neighborhood's Appetite

BYLINE: By BOB MORRIS

 BODY:
THE streets of the Upper East Side were almost deserted on a recent rainy Saturday. But inside William Poll, a food and catering shop at 1051 Lexington Avenue, things were happening.
A staff of 12, many of whom have worked there for years, baked and cooked with elfish efficiency. While country hams, chocolate cakes and pots of chicken soup materialized as if from the air in the back, a blue rubber ball flew back and forth in the front.
''Nine, ten, eleven,'' James Poll called as he winged the ball at his 93-year-old mother, Christine, working her reflexes and dexterity. She winged it right back with the force of a sandlot pitcher. ''Twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen. Good, Mommy!''
''That's it?'' she said. ''No more?'' 
''We already did 200 this morning,'' he said.
Mrs. Poll, the culinary force behind the store from 1942 to 2008, nodded. Her mind and tongue are not as sharp as they used to be, but she can still add up house account billings faster than you can say ''Charge it.'' Two of her seven children -- James, 54, and Stanley, 72 -- run the business now, and they push her to stay alert.
Later, well-heeled customers came and went, with quilted jackets and handbags dripping wet. Most greeted Mrs. Poll with a kiss as she sat at a bridge table, playing cards with James.
''Gin,'' she told him in little time. ''I just beat you again.''
''You always do,'' he said.
She reached over to hold his hand. Then she ate one of the baked potato thins she invented years ago, which are now a store favorite.
''I don't like frying,'' she said. ''I never did.''
Shops come and go on Lexington Avenue, so those that stick around tend to worm their way into the neighborhood psyche. The barbershop Paul Mole, for instance, holds memories for locals who also remember their mothers eating at La Goulue and shopping for dresses at Martha on Park Avenue.
And a prepared-food shop in a part of town where mothers are more familiar with reservations than recipes can come to feel very personal, too. Even in retirement, Mrs. Poll is not just the matriarch of her business but of a certain slice of Manhattan society.
Annie Schlechter, a photographer, said that when her father thinks about his childhood meals, it's not his mother he thinks of, but Mrs. Poll. ''I don't think anyone makes a practice of cooking in this neighborhood,'' she said.
Sure, the economy has taken a toll on the neighborhood, but that doesn't mean residents are firing up their ovens. Even though an entree as simple as meatloaf costs $15 at William Poll, the store remains a presence.
''Honest to God, they're like family,'' said Marcia Gowen, a customer and one of many neighbors who attended Mrs. Poll's 90th birthday party.
William Poll has always been a place children can charge treats like chocolate meringue kisses to the house accounts of grandparents.
''They are one of the last bastions of old New York on the Upper East Side,'' said Molly Jong-Fast, author of ''The Social Climber's Handbook'' and the daughter of the writer Erica Jong, a longtime resident. ''They are my life.''
The store has been in business on Lexington Avenue since 1921, selling produce and paper goods a few doors up from its present location, near 75th Street. But when Christine Cress married William Poll, whose brother Angel had started the business, it was 1942, and she wanted to upgrade their menu. In 1958, when the shop moved, Mrs. Poll installed three huge brass chandeliers.
''They added charm and character,'' Stanley Poll said.
''They helped sell more-expensive food,'' his mother added. ''I knew people had money around here, and that they'd want to spend it, and they did.''
They also had chefs at home, as many do today. But when it was time to have a party, catering was often required. For several decades, Mrs. Poll stayed close to the staple cuisine of the elite, providing smoked salmon and watercress sandwiches, sturgeon and caviar and blini for their cocktail parties, tea parties and holiday dinners.
But as Mrs. Poll studied with Julia Child and James Beard, she helped broaden the tastes of her customers. And because she and her husband were of Greek heritage, she pushed moussaka and spanakopita, along with her first frozen dinner, shish kebab.
Which is not to say that her chicken salad, deviled eggs, potpies, fresh roasted nuts and signature watercress and lobster dips, neighborhood standbys for 50 years, were chopped liver.
Joan Crawford, one of many celebrity customers, loved the mayonnaise-loaded, old-fashioned chicken salad so much that she insisted it be on the menu at every PepsiCo board luncheon when her husband was the chief executive. Yul Brynner, who was leasing Henry Fonda's town house around the corner, used to come in and sing hello to Mr. and Mrs. Poll in his resonant baritone.
The Polls are more or less discreet about their celebrity clientele. But that does not mean the brothers, when pushed, are above gushing about one of their favorite clients, Whoopi Goldberg, who has been known to walk out to the sidewalk with free samples for passers-by. Mike Nichols, Howard Stringer and John Calley have a tradition of sending one another caviar from the shop. Owners of private jets rely on the shop for in-flight meals delivered to Teterboro Airport in New Jersey. For years the wife of Lew Wasserman, the studio executive, ordered salmon, potato thins and dips, and had them sent to California to be eaten by the pool. Others have holiday meals or canapes flown to Palm Beach, Fla., and elsewhere.
''We'll do anything our customers ask, and we'll do it with passion,'' said Stanley, who left a career in advertising to return to the shop in 1979, where he had worked in his youth.
For the son of a movie star (O.K., it was Robert De Niro), the Polls once created an airport with electric runway and control-tower lights on a birthday cake. For a financier about to buy a bank from an avid trout fisherman, they artfully packed smoked trout in an aquarium.
But extravagance isn't what it once was. Like everything else since 2008, entertaining has faced some corrections. ''It's subtle, but things are different now,'' Stanley said. ''People still order caviar, but now they want to know the price before they do.''
They also do not require the formality at their parties that was once essential, meaning they can live with fewer waiters and passed hors d'oeuvres.
''I'm not saying it's about jeans and sneakers,'' Stanley added, ''but it is a lot less regal, that's all, with more buffet tables and less help.''
And so it goes from generation to generation, as tastes morph from cucumber sandwiches and toast points to sushi and sesame chicken. The shop survives it all, even new customers obsessed with low-fat ingredients, who would rather text than have a conversation. The fact that high-end cuisine is marketed and franchised so aggressively these days brings only shrugs.
''Competition keeps us on our toes, but we never cared about becoming a brand,'' said James, who left a career in film in 1995 to help run the shop and now performs stand-up comedy in his spare time. ''We don't need to expand so that we're on every block like Pain Quotidien. That's not us.''
Ordering from their Web site? They're still working on it.
For now, it was near closing time and staff members were coming to kiss Mrs. Poll goodbye. With hands manicured with fuchsia nail polish, she tucked in one man's collar and brushed back the hair from another's eyes.
''Thank you, Mommy,'' each said. Before the doors were to be locked, a harried customer came in. She scanned the shop as if it were her own kitchen.
''My husband asked what I'm making for dinner and I told him William Poll,'' she said.
Recipe: Watercress Dip
Adapted from William Poll Gourmet Foods, Manhattan
Time: 10 minutes
2 bunches watercress
3 pounds cream cheese
1 cup sour cream.
Thoroughly wash and dry the watercress. Chop it roughly, then finely chop it in a food processor. Place cream cheese in the bowl of a mixer and blend on medium speed until smooth. Add the sour cream and blend to combine. Add watercress and continue blending until smooth. Serve with raw vegetables, thin toasts or chips.
Yield: About 2 quarts.
Recipe: Lobster Dip
Adapted from William Poll Gourmet Foods, Manhattan
Time: 5 minutes
1/2 pound cooked lobster meat
2 1/2 pounds cream cheese
1 cup sour cream.
In a food processor, finely chop the lobster meat. Place cream cheese in the bowl of a mixer and blend on medium speed until smooth. Add the sour cream and blend to combine. Add lobster and continue blending until smooth. Serve with raw vegetables, thin toasts or chips.
Yield: About 2 quarts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THROUGH IT ALL:Christine Poll, top, with her sons Stanley, left, and James at their food and catering shop on the Upper East Side. Above left, a tray of canapes. Above right, Mrs. Poll and her husband, William, circa 1984. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DEIDRE SCHOO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



561 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Flooding Takes Vast Economic Toll, and It's Hardly Done

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
The swollen Mississippi River, already spilling over into wide areas of the Mississippi Delta, has dealt the South a heavy economic blow that is seeping into every possible corner of the region's commercial and agricultural life.
From Tennessee to Louisiana, the arteries and tributaries that normally supply the lifeblood of trade and business to the communities along the river's banks are now paralyzing them. The engorged river has disrupted waterway commerce, delaying barge traffic and forcing some cargo to be trucked overland. Grain elevators, a crucial link to the nation's grain exports, have been swamped. Early corn and soybean plantings on delta farms are submerged.
Like the very nature of water, the trickle-down effects of the historic flooding are leaving no corner untouched. Retail gasoline prices, already at two-year highs, and food prices could rise in the region because of supply disruptions. Tens of thousands of people are unemployed, shut out of jobs at establishments that are literally under water. State and local government coffers, strained because of the economic downturn, may lose many millions of dollars in revenue from tourism and taxes. 
In about a dozen interviews, economists, farmers and industry officials said they expected hundreds of millions of dollars in damages including crop and infrastructure destruction in communities along the 740 miles of river that meanders from Memphis to New Orleans. But while the final bill has yet to be determined, the costs are already being felt.
In Yazoo County, Miss., John Phillips, a 61-year-old farmer, said thousands of acres of his cotton and corn crops had been destroyed. ''In our area in the south delta, it is a widespread and very economically devastating disaster,'' he said in a telephone interview, as he tried to run a pump. He said his annual revenue would be reduced by 40 percent because it was too late to replant.
In Louisiana, oyster beds have been flushed with fresh water from the river after spillways were opened. Already, the state's crucial seafood industry had been reeling from the BP oil spill.
''Oysters are getting crucified,'' said Harlon H. Pearce Jr., the executive director of Louisiana Seafood Promotion and Marketing Board. ''This water hit at the absolute worst time.''
Along the river, barge operators are weathering the economic turbulence. It costs an operator about $10,000 a day when there is a delay with a tow, which helps the unwieldy barges, sometimes up to 45 of them tied together, navigate.
''One barge has the capacity of 16 rail cars or 70 trucks,'' said Anne D. Burns, a spokeswoman at American Waterways Operators. The river's barge traffic, Ms. Burns added, ''is one of the significant building blocks of our economy.''
With the recent flooding, barges are running lighter loads and traveling during the day because navigation markers are submerged. Delays can have ripple effects throughout the economy, like slower coal deliveries to utilities, where costs can be passed on to consumers, or disruptions to the nation's grain exports that travel down the river, she added.
''All those things are slowing down the delivery of these commodities,'' Ms. Burns said.
The flooding has affected other states, including Arkansas, Illinois, Kentucky and Missouri. In addition to farming, businesses including catfish farms, hunting and fishing tourism, and casinos up and down the river have been affected.
About 100,000 acres of croplands, some planted with sugar cane and rice, flooded over the weekend in the Atchafalaya Basin in Louisiana when the Morganza spillway was opened, but the damage assessment has not been completed, said an Army Corps economist, Lee Robinson.
The economic hardships facing the affected areas would be traumatic to residents at any time, but they are also taking place when the nation is trying to recover from the 2008 financial crisis.
Economists are only just beginning to assess the potential headwinds of the Mississippi River flooding. An academic study released last week said the cost to the Memphis area, including the city and the 630,000 people in 18 counties that feed into the urban area in jobs or spending, could reach $753 million in damages to crops, residences, and commercial and public infrastructure.
An author of the study, Michael J. Hicks, the director of the Center for Business and Economic Research at Ball State University, said there were losses to the region's consumer base and trade disruptions in a region that connects the manufacturing heartland of the Midwest with routes traveling between the East and the West.
''I am going to estimate in the $6 billion to $9 billion range for total damages from Memphis southward to the gulf,'' Mr. Hicks said.
Between 2.1 million to 2.2 million acres of farmland have so far been affected by the flooding in the delta region, or about 1 percent of all United States cropland, according to estimates from the Army Corps of Engineers.
While acknowledging the regional devastation, however, government economists say they do not expect a national grain shortage because there are plentiful stocks. A lot will depend on whether farmers will be able to replant.
Oil companies have also been affected. In the Memphis area, Valero's refinery is located on a bluff, and another one west of New Orleans is protected by levees. But with memories still fresh from Hurricane Katrina, Valero moved up its hurricane preparedness plans, securing equipment or moving it to higher ground, said a spokesman, Bill Day.
Exxon Mobil shut the docks at its refinery and petrochemical complex in Baton Rouge, La., and is only using its pipeline for operations. Its second refinery in Chalmette, near New Orleans, was not affected, said Kevin Allexon, a company spokesman.
Mr. Allexon said the company had contingency plans, like outside storage capacity. ''We have invested a lot of resources to prepare and plan for this situation,'' he said. ''If you operate in the Gulf of Mexico region you need to be ready for weather-related events, whether it is flooding or hurricanes or both.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A flooded wheat field, top, near Vicksburg, Miss. A levee, above, constructed around a medical center in Vidalia, La., was inspected on Monday, and water threatened a lumber mill and brick-making operation, below. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES
CHRIS TODD/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 The Isle of Capri riverboat casino in Natchez, Miss., is closed because of Mississippi River flooding. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON BRONIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (90%); RIVERS (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); OIL SPILLS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CORN FARMING (77%); CROP & LIVESTOCK ALLOCATIONS (77%); GASOLINE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); MARINE VESSELS (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); COTTON FARMING (70%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); SOYBEAN FARMING (70%); FOOD PRICES (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); TRAINS (60%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



562 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: PC Makers Are Seeing A Slowdown

BYLINE: By VERNE G. KOPYTOFFand LAURIE J. FLYNN

 BODY:
The world's two largest personal computer makers, Hewlett-Packard and Dell, said Tuesday that a slowdown in sales to consumers in the first months of the year damped overall revenues.
''The PC market continues to be bifurcated,'' Leo Apotheker, the H.P. chief executive, said in a conference call with analysts. He added that ''even though our consumer PC expectations had been cautious, the steepness of our Q2 decline is greater than what we had anticipated.''
H.P. said that sales of personal computers in the fiscal quarter ending April 30 fell 5 percent, to $9.4 billion. A 23 percent decline in consumer computer sales far outweighed a 13 percent increase in sales to businesses. 
Companies that make personal computers, like H.P. and Dell, are vulnerable to changes in consumer spending because of the fragile economy. But despite the tight wallets in a slowly recovering economy, shoppers have been eager to buy tablet computers, a market that H.P. will finally enter this summer with its planned release of the TouchPad, a rival to Apple's dominant iPad.
Analysts attribute some of the weakness in consumer PC sales to the rise of tablets. Overall PC sales declined 1 percent to 3 percent during the first three months of the year, according to slightly different estimates by IDC and Gartner, two market research firms. But they also blamed the economy and a lack of innovation in PCs.
H.P., based in Palo Alto, Calif., reported net income in the quarter rose 5 percent to $2.3 billion, or $1.05 a share, from $2.2 billion, or 91 cents, in the year-ago quarter.
It said that overall revenue in the quarter climbed 3 percent to $31.6 billion.
The adjusted income of $1.24 a share was slightly above the expectations of Wall Street analysts. They had expected $1.21 a share and revenue of $31.54 billion, according to a survey of analysts by Thomson Reuters.
Revenue during the current quarter is expected to be $31.1 billion to $31.3 billion, slightly below analyst forecasts of $31.8 billion. Adjusted income is expected to be around $1.08 a share, which was also below the $1.24 that had been predicted.
Full-year revenue is pegged at $129 billion to $130 billion with adjusted income of at least $5 a share, also below analysts' predictions.
For Dell, sales of servers, computers and storage devices to businesses continued to help offset weaknesses that have plagued its consumer business the last few years.
Brian Gladden, Dell's chief financial officer, said that consumer sales were even weaker than the company had expected during the quarter. But he added that the consumer market accounts for only 20 percent of Dell's total revenue, ''a dynamic that is really good for us.''
The company reported that in its first quarter, net income nearly tripled to $945 million, or 49 cents a share, from $341 million, or 17 cents a share. Revenue rose 1 percent to $15 billion.
Analysts had forecast earnings of 43 cents a share, on average, on $15.4 billion in revenue for the first quarter.
Sales to large corporations increased 5 percent to $4.5 billion, while Dell's sales to consumers declined 7 percent.
The company expects stronger growth -- midsingle-digit revenue growth in its second fiscal quarter, which is slightly above its normal, sequential seasonal growth of 2 percent to 3 percent. Sales of personal computers could get a lift from a good back-to-school season, strong demand for Dell products using Intel's new Sandy Bridge chip and end-of-year government spending, the company said.
Shares of Dell rose 5.5 percent in after-hours trading to $16.78.
Some analysts predict the consumers will continue to be a problem. ''The consumer market is very weak and that situation is not going to improve,'' said Ashok Kumar, an analyst with Rodman & Renshaw. ''The bigger picture is they are transforming into a solutions company, which will mean less volatility.''
H.P. was sluggish in other segments of its business. H.P.'s services business, which caters to corporate clients, gained 2 percent, to $9 billion. Mr. Apotheker said inadequate investment was to blame, a thinly veiled criticism of his predecessor, Mark V. Hurd, who was known as a cost-cutter.
H.P. said that it planned to reorganize its services business to focus on more profitable and higher-growth categories. However, analysts worried about the effect on profits and the time it would take for the extra investment to pay off.
''We are making tough decisions today to set us up for the future,'' Mr. Apotheker said.
Louis Miscioscia, an analyst for Collins Stewart, said about H.P., ''The frustrating thing is that it's been a series of issues over the past year, not just one issue here and one issue there.''
A. M. Sacconaghi Jr., an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, called the quarter disappointing. He added that ''clearly, it's an inauspicious start'' for Mr. Apotheker, who has spent just over six months on the job, and raises fears that the company is not going to be as strong under him as it was under Mr. Hurd.
Investors sent H.P.'s shares down 7.3 percent on Tuesday to $36.91. It was their lowest level in nearly two years.
H.P. and Dell are also feeling the effect of Japan's disasters. H.P. said it expected a $700 million hit in the second half of its fiscal year because of reduced demand for its products, higher costs for components and the need to ship its products by air rather than by sea.
Dell executives have said the company has experienced relatively minor disruptions in its supply chain as a result of the earthquake and tsunami in Japan during the quarter.
But Brian Marshall, an analyst with Gleacher & Company, warned that Dell, along with H.P., would probably face higher component costs over the next few quarters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (96%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); NETWORK SERVERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (57%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (84%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); HPQ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



563 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: What's Good for Workers ...

 BODY:
The refusal by Congressional Republicans to renew assistance for workers who lose their jobs to overseas competition is another instance of their callous determination to slash the budget at the expense of the most vulnerable Americans. It is also bad for American business and other constituents dearer to their hearts. 
We support passage of the three long-delayed trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama. But the White House is right not to submit the deals to Congress until Republicans agree to the benefits renewal.
The Trade Adjustment Assistance program, which has enjoyed strong bipartisan support, retrains displaced workers and provides extended unemployment insurance. The 2009 stimulus bill added health insurance benefits and expanded the list of those eligible to include the large number of service-sector workers displaced by outsourcing. Those expanded benefits expired in February.
Adjustment assistance should be seen as a core component of the nation's strategy to embrace globalization. The United States Chamber of Commerce and other business groups have made clear their support for renewal. Earlier this month, a business coalition, including the chamber and other business groups, sent a letter to the president and Congressional leaders reaffirming their ''long standing support for T.A.A. as a central part of America's overall trade agenda.''
Public declarations and letters are clearly not enough. Business leaders need to press hard on Republican leaders, telling them it is time to stand up to the antigovernment fringe. The assistance package is not only good for American workers and businesses, it is in the best interest of the whole country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); OUTSOURCING (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); PANAMA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



564 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEAL PROFESSOR; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Several Paths to Fix Greek Debt Woes, but All Lead to Misery

BYLINE: By STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF. 
Steven M. Davidoff, a former corporate lawyer at Shearman & Sterling, is a professor at the University of Connecticut School of Law. His columns can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook. Follow @StevenDavidoff on Twitter.

 BODY:
What should be done with Greece?
The country that gave birth to Western civilization appears increasingly likely to be the first euro sovereign to restructure its debt. It all has the potential to be a mess.
Nonetheless, Europeans do have a number of options to restructure Greece's debt.
The hard trick is to do it in a manner that allows the euro to survive and to stem any further collapse of Greece or other at-risk countries. 
Europe can look to a long history of debt defaults by sovereign nations for precedent. In recent times there have been debt restructurings by Argentina, Mexico, Pakistan, Uruguay and Russia, and they have largely taken two forms when voluntary.
The first form is accomplished through the voluntary participation of debt holders. The mild tonic of debt restructuring involves extending maturities and lowering interest rates on the country's debt. The harsher brew involves exchanging debt with a lower value to those debt holders who voluntarily participate. These restructurings, like one by Uruguay in 2002, succeed because the debt, like Greece's, is trading at such a heavy discount. New debt is offered at effectively better terms than the trading price of the current debt, thereby giving the debt holders an incentive to participate.
Greece is different though. It does not have its own currency. In addition, some 90 percent of Greek bonds are under Greek law. This allows Greece much more latitude to deal with the crisis. The Greek Parliament can simply amend Greek law to restructure the debt without the consent of the debt holders.
It is for this reason that the small percentage of Greek bonds issued under English law trade at a premium. They cannot be so modified by the Greek government.
Beyond these more standard options, the nuclear one is for Greece to exit the euro for a period to allow it to devalue its currency to afford these debts. But the terms of Greece's debt may require it to pay back this debt in euros anyway, making such a switch much harder to carry out without these other strong-arm tactics.
So what will Europe do?
The European Central Bank appears adamant that debt reduction is too dangerous, while Germany has been demanding that there be pain for Greece. All agree a euro exit would be catastrophic. The managing director of the International Monetary Fund, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, was to have been the mediator among these parties, but his arrest in New York on sexual assault charges has ended his involvement.
Among all of the options, extending the maturity of Greece's debt appears to be the most likely and politically palatable. The European Union can claim that it is still paying Greece's obligations in full while also showing to Germany and other Northern European nations that there is pain for the bondholders.
If these debt maturities are extended a few years, the European Union would not have to cover the looming private financing gap Greece faces. In such a case, the accountants may still allow European banks that hold billions in Greek debt to still value it at 100 cents on the dollar, allowing them to avoid their own solvency issues and allow time to build up reserves. The European Central Bank can thus avoid haircuts or defaults that might affect the other troubled European countries or European banks.
But in truth a maturity extension or interest rate reduction simply postpones the problem if Greece's debt burden is still too high. Planned Greek asset sales may be enough to remedy some of the difference, but it is unlikely that they will be sufficient for all of it. Because of this, the economist Nouriel Roubini and other hard-liners advocate an orderly restructuring and debt write-down from the get-go.
Europe is moving to adopt a legal debt-restructuring scheme for bonds issued after 2013 modeled after the I.M.F.'s own unsuccessful sovereign debt restructuring mechanism. It is at that time that Europe's promise that no haircuts will occur on European private sovereign debt expires.
Coincidentally, this is when another more aggressive Greek restructuring may be about to occur if the Europeans start this year with a restructuring that simply extends debt maturities. But at this point the European Union and the I.M.F. will be the largest creditors of Greece, holding about 110 billion euros in Greek debt. The European Central Bank will own tens of billions more in Greek debt acquired by propping up Greek banks.
As Lee C. Buchheit and Mitu Gulati state in an excellent paper summarizing these issues, a debt restructuring in 2013 or later will mean that ''the sword of a debt restructuring ... will fall principally on the neck of the official sector lenders.'' In other words, the European Union will have to share this pain. At this point, the maturity for the European Union and private holders may again be extended. And the extension is likely to last for decades to allow the debt's value to be eaten away by inflation.
But this is the mild case for 2013. By that time, harsher action may be necessary if any restructuring made now is not effective.
In all of these cases, though, many of these holders are likely to use past experience to fight a restructuring, possibly in the courts. Who holds Greek debt is unclear. But there may be hedge funds and other professional debt arbitragers willing to take up such a battle.
These restructurings can take months to achieve when done efficiently and years when not. Choosing the right course requires a political body that remains committed and focused. Even before the arrest of Mr. Strauss-Kahn, Europeans were wavering on bailouts. It is going to be difficult for Europe's political representatives and their public to agree on what to do and stay the course.
The European financial ministers will truly have to display nerve and ability to support their financially troubled brethren. With Greece, unfortunately, uncertainty and pain appear to be the most likely outcome. Portugal and Ireland may be next.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); BONDS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); BOND ISSUES (65%); ARRESTS (65%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (60%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (60%); SEX OFFENSES (60%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (81%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (68%) GREECE (96%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



565 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: British Lesson for the U.S.

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''The Decline of the 'Lib-Dems' in Britain'' (editorial, May 12) rightly characterizes the motley coalition government's action as ''radical budget slashing, which has pushed the recovering British economy back toward recession.'' 
Having recently visited London during the protest over these actions in March, I can testify to the anger and sense of despair of average citizens. But the slash-and-burn Tory-Liberal Democratic policies have an instructive lesson for America.
As our House Republicans emulate the Tory-led government and go far beyond in gutting vital elements of America's infrastructure, social and health safety nets, and investment in clean energy, one can hope that it will prove equally disastrous for the G.O.P. when the electorate wakes up to find that it has been duped by promises to keep Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid benefits.
The only promise the right-wing Republicans have kept is to assure that we will have a nation where the rich get richer (thanks to ill-advised and immoral tax cuts) and the needy and the middle class get poorer.
HARRY C. BLANEY III Senior Fellow Center for International Policy Washington, May 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MEDICARE (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); MEDICAID (72%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



566 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Factory Output Sluggish; Home Building Slumps

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Factory output slipped for the first time in 10 months in April as a shortage of parts from Japan crimped activity and home building slumped, showing the economy got off to a weak start in the second quarter. 
''It's a sluggish start,'' said Ryan Sweet, a senior economist at Moody's Analytics in West Chester, Pa. ''Since the beginning of this year the recovery seems to have hit a bit of a soft patch, but conditions should improve for the remainder of this year.''
Manufacturing output fell 0.4 percent, breaking nine consecutive months of gains, as supply disruptions from Japan's earthquake hit auto production, the Federal Reserve said.
Overall industrial production was flat, with gains in mining and utilities offsetting the drop in factory output. Excluding cars and parts, manufacturing output rose a sluggish 0.2 percent.
A separate report from the Commerce Department showed groundbreaking for new housing dropped 10.6 percent to an annual rate of 523,000 units as a glut of homes on the market discouraged new projects.
Though March's housing starts were revised up substantially, it was not enough to soften the blow from last month's drop.
''The recovery in the housing sector is still wanting and is still a hope more than a reality,'' said Anthony Chan, chief economist at JPMorgan Private Wealth Management in New York.
Economists, who had expected starts to rise to a 568,000-unit rate, said tornadoes that lashed parts of the country last month were partly to blame for the drop. Starts in the tornado-ravaged South slumped to a two-year low.
Hopes are high that gasoline prices will fall and the nascent labor market recovery will strengthen enough to increase consumer spending and economic growth.
Manufacturing has been leading the recovery and economists expect it to bounce back as auto supply disruptions fade.
Housing, however, is a different matter. Construction is being crowded out by a surplus of homes and in particular foreclosed properties that sell well below their value.
In March, the spread between the prices of new and previously owned houses was about $54,200, indicating used homes were selling well below the cost of construction. A spread of between $20,000 and $30,000 is generally viewed as ideal.
A report on Monday showed that while builders expected a modest improvement in sales during the spring, they expect market conditions to weaken in the next six months.
Analysts estimate there are between eight and nine million homes on the market, including the so-called shadow inventory -- foreclosed properties and those that are about to be repossessed by banks.
''The shadow housing inventory is coming to the market and is hindering the need to really start building more houses,'' Mr. Chan said.
The weight on the economy will be limited, however, since residential construction accounts for only about 2.2 percent of gross domestic product.
Groundbreaking last month was depressed by a 24.1 percent tumble in the volatile multifamily homes sector, where starts for buildings with five or more units dropped 28.3 percent. Single-family home construction fell 5.1 percent.
Permits for future home construction dropped 4.0 percent to a 551,000-unit pace last month. They were held down by an 8.8 percent drop in the multifamily segment. Permits to build single-family homes slipped 1.8 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Industrial Production: Index of total industrial production, 2007 = 100, seasonally adjusted.
Capacity Utilization: Total industrial output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Federal Reserve)
 Housing Construction: New private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (95%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (79%); REPOSSESSION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); GASOLINE MARKETS (67%); TORNADOES (64%); GASOLINE PRICES (63%); EARTHQUAKES (54%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (54%); JPM (LSE) (54%); 8634 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



567 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: For States, A Glimmer Of Hope On Deficits

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
From stronger-than-expected tax collections in deficit-ridden California to projected surpluses in struggling states like Michigan and Pennsylvania, a growing number of recession-weary states are finally announcing a bit of good budget news for the first time since the downturn began.
But it would probably be premature to pop the Champagne, or even the prosecco -- or to otherwise declare the fiscal crisis that has hammered states to be over. 
''If the question is 'Are we out of the woods?,' I think the answer is probably no,'' said Donald J. Boyd, a senior fellow at the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government in Albany, which closely tracks state tax collections. ''We're closer to the edge. But there are still so many things that states and localities need to worry about.''
Tax collections, which had their steepest and longest decline on record at the beginning of the recession, have been steadily rising for more than a year, but states still collected nearly 10 percent less in taxes last year than they did before the downturn began, the institute found, adjusting for inflation. The end of the federal stimulus program is also leaving states struggling to balance their budgets without the more than $150 billion in federal aid that they have used for this purpose over the last three years. And many rainy day funds have been spent.
So what to make of the better-than-expected tax collections?
In some states, they are as much a sign that the expectations were too low as they are a sign of vibrant economic growth. At the beginning of the recession, many states were much too optimistic when it came to predicting tax collections -- forcing them to pass painful midyear spending cuts and tax increases when things grew worse than many economists had forecast.
So it was perhaps prudent to err on the side of caution with overly conservative estimates this year. There is certainly no political downside: governors like to be able to announce that they have been able to whittle away the daunting budget gaps that were predicted earlier in their terms.
Now, as states tally their tax collections for the all-important month of April, states including California, Michigan, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Texas are reporting that tax collections appear to be better than they had feared. As welcome as the news is, though, tax collections can be highly volatile, and there is still plenty of reason for caution.
California officials warned against being overly optimistic when they reported this week that the state was on track to collect $6.6 billion more this year and next year than it had projected. The unexpected windfall will allow the state to avert some of the draconian education cuts that had been proposed. But officials cautioned that the good news may not last.
Much of the increase in California tax collections came not because of especially robust job or wage growth -- wages grew at less than 1 percent last year, officials said -- but rather because much of the income growth and capital gains in the state were concentrated among California's highest earners, who pay the highest tax rates.
''While this is to be expected, given the stock market recovery and the good earnings of California's top performing companies,'' the state warned in its revenue report, ''such recovery rates of growth are not likely to be sustained.''
In some states, the better-than-expected tax collections are complicating the efforts by governors to muscle through politically difficult spending cuts.
When Pennsylvania announced earlier this month that it had collected $506 million more in taxes this year than it had predicted it would, some state lawmakers began to question whether they still needed to go ahead with a proposal by the state's new Republican governor, Tom Corbett, to make deep cuts to education -- especially higher education. But even if the state ends the current fiscal year with a surplus of half a billion dollars, Pennsylvania officials are still projecting a gap of more than $4 billion in the year that begins July 1.
A similar dynamic is playing out in Michigan. When the state announced that it would probably take in $429 million more than expected this year, some lawmakers suggested that they might not have to make all the deep cuts that Michigan's governor, Rick Snyder, has proposed for the state's schools and local governments.
But administration officials note that Michigan's fiscal challenges remain severe -- estimating that the rainy day fund in their battered state coffers would keep the government running for only around a half an hour -- and say that using money that may not recur to balance next year's budget would make it harder to put the state in a strong position over the long term.
''Decisions to build the 2012 budget with any 2011 surplus would jeopardize that strong position, and only serve to delay needed decisions by another year,'' John Nixon, the state's budget director, said in a statement. ''We must resist the urge to kick the can down the road once again.''
Michigan is under additional fiscal pressure: a series of business tax cuts supported by Mr. Snyder, a Republican, could cost the state an estimated $1 billion in lost revenues next year, revenue the state plans to recoup from a series of other tax changes, including taxes to pensions.
When states began to work on next year's budgets, 44 of them faced deficits of roughly $112 billion, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. Elizabeth McNichol, a senior fellow at the center who specializes in state fiscal issues, said that the improving revenue picture came after many states made tough cuts and raised tax rates, and that most states did not expect to collect taxes at pre-recession levels for several years.
''What's happening is, we've kind of hit bottom,'' Ms. McNichol said. ''But we have a long way to go before things get back to normal.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michigan lawmakers say they may not need to make all the cuts proposed by Gov. Rick Snyder, but his aides are skeptical. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DALE G. YOUNG/DETROIT NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TAX LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (66%)

PERSON: RICK SNYDER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



568 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: A Stylish Anchor for 1 World Trade Center

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Conde Nast Publications, whose stable of magazines chronicles the American zeitgeist as meticulously as any anthropologist, has reached an agreement to lease one million square feet at 1 World Trade Center, giving ground zero a much-needed corporate anchor with a proven ability to attract other businesses.
The company signaled its interest in moving to 1 World Trade Center several months ago. But that was just the beginning of a marathon courtship befitting one of the country's most influential buildings and one of its trend-setting media empires, which went far beyond the typical landlord-tenant transaction.
Besides matters of costs, terms and incentives, the negotiations involved reams of traffic studies and security discussions, to ensure that its black cars (more than 100), its racks of designer dresses and its well-shod executives would be able to pass swiftly each day through the police-imposed security zone that is to surround the complex. 
To attract Conde Nast, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the site, had to take on some risk, notably by agreeing to assume the last four or five years of the company's current lease in Times Square. But the deal, worth an estimated $2 billion over 25 years, still represents a victory for the Port Authority, which has suffered criticism for years of missteps, delays and political squabbling over the rebuilding of the trade center. Critics doubted whether the lead tower would attract tenants other than government agencies, making it little more than an expensive 1,776-foot-tall monument.
''We built a new reality at the World Trade Center, and this transaction will be the exclamation point on that turnaround,'' said Christopher O. Ward, executive director of the Port Authority.
The talk that Conde Nast was interested in ground zero was enough to entice other large companies to begin eyeing the neighborhood, which is steadily diversifying as financial firms have shrunk or moved away. Sirius Satellite Radio, J. Crew and the law firm Chadbourne & Parke are also considering moves downtown, and the owners of the nearby World Financial Center have even debated whether to rename the complex to reflect the growing number of nonfinancial firms downtown and the young people who live and work there.
Next month, The Daily News and American Media Inc., which publishes The National Enquirer, Playboy and Men's Fitness, are moving into 4 New York Plaza on Broad Street.
''For 20 years we have been talking about diversifying the economy in Lower Manhattan,'' said Robert Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association. ''This is an extraordinary breakthrough. It's a blue-chip tenant from a creative sector and quite a departure from financial services.''
Conde Nast, whose 18 titles include The New Yorker, Vanity Fair, Vogue, Bon Appetit and Architectural Digest, confirmed that it was concluding its negotiations at the trade center. ''Conde Nast would be proud to take part in the ongoing renaissance of Lower Manhattan,'' John Bellando, the company's chief financial officer, said in a statement Tuesday afternoon.
The lease is to go before the Port Authority's board on May 26 for final approval. On that day, the board is also expected to formalize its partnership with the Durst Organization, which will pay $100 million for an estimated 10 percent stake in the building and be in charge of leasing the tower.
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said Tuesday that the Conde Nast lease ''sends a message to the global business community that Lower Manhattan is alive, growing and open for business.''
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said: ''This is a smart media company voting with its feet to relocate at the World Trade Center. Even just a few short years ago, few would have believed it possible.''
By all accounts, the lease is good news for downtown, but it is also a great deal for Conde Nast, which will consolidate offices now spread among six buildings. Plans call for test kitchens, private dining rooms and an auditorium.
By agreeing to become the tower's anchor, it had leverage in the bargaining. The publisher is expected to move about 5,000 employees to Floors 20 through 41 at 1 World Trade Center sometime in 2014, when its annual rent will start at a little more than $60 per square foot, or roughly the same amount it is paying today at 4 Times Square, in a skyscraper built in 1999 by the Durst Organization.
Penalties are built into the contract if the Port Authority fails to make the space available on time. After the company moves to the building, the Port Authority will take responsibility for Conde Nast's lease at 4 Times Square, which runs until 2019. But it should be easy for the Port Authority to find a corporate tenant willing to pay a higher rent, said Alan Desino, a real estate broker at Colliers, since there are so few large blocks of space available in Midtown.
Like other tenants at the trade center site, Conde Nast received an incentive package that includes sales tax exemptions on interior building materials and furnishings, and $46 million in rent rebates over 17 years. Still, its rent is somewhat higher than those in recent deals at 7 World Trade Center or the World Financial Center, according to real estate brokers.
Conde Nast executives drilled down to the finest details to understand the building and the site, pondering what would happen if, for instance, a Ralph Lauren wanted to pull up to the building in a limousine. Would he be able to get in? To give them comfort, Port Authority executives provided extensive traffic studies for both black cars and delivery vehicles, with data on vehicular flows and travel times from Brooklyn, the Upper East and West Sides and Jersey City.
After much planning, officials assured Conde Nast that its armada of black cars, and their drivers, could be prescreened by the police for regular access via a route that goes south on Washington or Greenwich Street and east on Vesey Street to reach 1 World Trade Center. And for the company's thousands of employees who travel more commonly, by subway from Brooklyn or the PATH train from New Jersey, the downtown location is more advantageous than Times Square.
The move may also come amid another transition, as a third generation of the Newhouse family prepares to take command of the company. Officials involved in the negotiations said they believed that Conde Nast would bring its cutting-edge sensibilities to the design of its new space. But in a sign of the challenging times for media companies, several Conde Nast writers and editors said they did not expect the company to spend as lavishly as it did in Times Square, where the cafeteria features Venetian glass and titanium walls.
The new cafeteria has yet to be designed, but it was an issue during lease negotiations, because no one wanted greasy louvers spewing kitchen exhaust from the exterior of ground zero's signature tower. Architects were brought in to address the problem, ultimately by setting the louvers back behind the curtain wall so they would not be visible from the outside.
In any event, other downtown landlords said they believed that Conde Nast could do for downtown what it did for the corporate office market around 42nd Street. Carl Weisbrod, who helped reshape Lower Manhattan as a city official and as president of the Downtown Alliance, called it ''perhaps the most important move downtown in the last 20 years.''
''What Conde Nast really does,'' Mr. Weisbrod added, ''is certify downtown as a cool place to do business.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Conde Nast, now located at 4 Times Square, is to move to the lead tower at ground zero in 2014. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A14)
 At 1 World Trade Center, shown from the World Financial Center, Conde Nast plans to consolidate offices now spread among six buildings. The publisher will occupy Floors 20 through 41. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (90%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (66%); SATELLITE RADIO (61%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (60%); NEWS BRIEFS (60%)

COMPANY: CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (84%); CHADBOURNE & PARKE LLP (81%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%); AMERICAN MEDIA INC (62%); SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (52%)

TICKER: SIRI (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (81%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (52%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



569 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Some See Rise Ahead For Dollar

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.. 
David Leonhardt, whose Economic Scene column normally appears on this page, is off.

 BODY:
LONDON -- Could the long dollar slide be over?
For the better part of the past decade, and particularly in the last few months, the American dollar has been the 98-pound weakling of the foreign exchange world. It has lost value against almost every other global currency -- not just the euro, pound and yen but even the Romanian new leu and the Latvian lats.
Driven largely by the Federal Reserve's policy of printing dollars to help spur a healthy economic recovery that remains stubbornly elusive, the dollar, weighed against a basket of other currencies, hit a 40-year low this month.
But betting against the dollar may no longer be such a safe play -- not necessarily because of any sudden macroeconomic shifts but because of a sense that the long dollar sell-off may have finally gone too far. 
Since May 4, the dollar is up 4 percent against the euro and 2 percent against the pound, while rallying against the Romanian and Latvian currencies as well.
The dollar's bounce, though too brief to be called a trend, has not been driven by any noticeable improvement in America's economic fundamentals. Indeed, the faint but real risk that Congress will fail to reach agreement on raising the legal ceiling on government borrowing only underscores the still parlous state of the American economy.
At the same time, unemployment in the United States remains stubbornly high, at 9 percent. And there is a strong belief among big money investors that the Obama administration as well as the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, tacitly welcome a cheaper dollar to spur exports and encourage American manufacturers to hire more aggressively.
''The U.S. economy is still facing headwinds -- from weak housing to reductions in government spending,'' said Ray Attrill, a currency strategist for BNP Paribas in New York. ''For those reasons, we think the export sector is where policy makers are looking for growth.''
But analysts also see another, more technical reason behind the dollar's long decline -- one that may well be ending. Ever since the global financial crisis began to ease in 2009, the appeal of investing in higher-yielding currencies and commodities all over the world has created what, in trader parlance, is called a risk-on, risk-off dynamic.
Investors tend to sell their safer holdings, like United States Treasury bonds, when they feel more bullish. Because 90 percent of the world's hedge funds are dollar-based, those changes in sentiment can have a depressing effect on the American currency. Reserve-rich central banks in emerging markets have also been selling dollars and buying euros to rebalance their reserve portfolios, said Mr. Attrill, citing recent data from the International Monetary Fund.
''Everything has been strengthening against the dollar -- this is something that has not happened in the past,'' said Stephen L. Jen, an independent currency strategist and former economist for the International Monetary Fund.
But that momentum now appears to have swung too far to one side -- particularly as Europe's own debt problems return to the limelight. Mr. Jen sees the euro's rise to a high of $1.49 from $1.19 over the last year as overdone, especially in light of the festering problems in Greece and other weak euro zone economies. Even now, the euro is back down to $1.42.
''With its sovereign debt issue and the growth differential in the euro zone,'' Mr. Jen said, the euro is ''just too expensive.''
Other analysts also have begun to say enough already.
In part, that is because much of the dollar's recent weakness was driven by the perception that the European Central Bank, and to a lesser extent the Bank of England, were more likely to raise interest rates to keep inflation under control than was the Federal Reserve, which remains committed to keeping short-term interest rates near zero. With rates likely to be higher in Europe than in the United States, traders moved their money out of United States government bills and bonds to gain greater returns abroad.
But the stronger the euro got, the more likely it became that its rise would begin to bite back. As the euro rose to nearly $1.50, the strength of the currency started to raise doubts about whether the mighty German export machine, which gained competitive strength when the euro was weaker, could continue to perform so successfully around the world.
Meanwhile, with growth negligible or nonexistent in Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, and with each of them facing huge challenges paying their debts, Europe's position looks more precarious -- especially if the European Central Bank remains determined to push interest rates higher this year.
''The beleaguered European periphery is now choking on a caustic concoction of a surging euro exchange rate, a deflating E.C.B. balance sheet and rising short-term funding rates,'' Michael T. Darda, chief economist of MKM Partners, wrote in a recent note to clients.
''If there is no path to a reasonable recovery in nominal G.D.P. for the European periphery, fiscal austerity will fail and serial defaults and/or restructurings likely will follow,'' he wrote.
Just as puzzling to some has been the robust performance of the British pound over the past year -- up 11 percent against the dollar.
On the surface, the raw economic numbers in Britain are as bad as anywhere in Europe: a deficit of 10 percent of gross domestic product, a weak banking sector and sluggish economic growth that continues to be revised downward.
As Paul De Grauwe, a Brussels-based economist noted recently, Britain's 10-year bond yields are 2 percent below those of Spain, despite Spain's having lower debt and deficit figures.
But Britain has the benefit of running its own monetary policy. And its status apart from the United States dollar and outside the euro zone has attracted foreign bond investors seeking a haven.
To British officials, such a trend reflects its ambitious program to cut government spending and bring down the deficit. But a recent report on the British economy by Morgan Stanley strikes a more skeptical tone, highlighting six problem areas that could cause investors to take flight.
Morgan Stanley cites the effect on growth that public sector cuts will have, the continued vulnerability of the country's banks to a weakening real estate market and increased tensions between the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats in the coalition government.
The upshot is that ''the pound could be in for a pounding,'' the analysts conclude.
Predicting a currency's direction is about as inexact as sciences come, especially in today's volatile markets. But one thing seems certain: the dollar may no longer be king, but after a long slump it can still flex its muscles from time to time.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A board listing foreign currency rates against the Belarus ruble drew attention Monday outside an exchange office in Minsk. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VIKTOR DRACHEV/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B4) CHART: An End to the Fall? Over the past decade, the dollar mostly lost value, but it has recently benefited from increased worry about economies elsewhere. The U.S. dollar index tracks the dollar against a basket of major currencies. (Source: Bloomberg) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EURO (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); TRENDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); BONDS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); DEBT CEILING (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%)

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (53%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (53%); BNP (BIT) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%); BEN BERNANKE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); ROMANIA (93%); BELARUS (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



570 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Frets as U.S. Shoppers Buy Food and Little Else

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
For Wal-Mart's customers, the economy still looks a lot like 2009.
The poorer customers who shop at the nation's biggest retailers are still on tight budgets. They wait inside the store at the end of each month with full shopping carts until the clock strikes midnight. Then, their electronic-benefit transfers from the government go through, and they pay for their groceries and other staples. They buy items in small packages, which cost less than big ones.
And while they are spending more on food at Wal-Mart than they did a year ago, they are buying less in most other categories. 
Same-store sales, or sales at stores open at least a year, fell by 1.1 percent in the quarter in the United States, the company said on Tuesday. It was the eight quarterly drop in a row, one of the worst streaks in Wal-Mart's history.
Over all, however, earnings beat analyst expectations, helped by sales strength in international stores and at its Sam's Club unit. The company said its quarterly profit was $3.4 billion, or 97 cents a share, up from $3.3 billion, or 87 cents a share, a year earlier. Wal-Mart had forecast a profit of 91 to 96 cents a share for the quarter, and analysts expected a 95-cent-a-share profit on average.
Sales in the period, which ended April 30 and was the first quarter of Wal-Mart's fiscal year, rose 4.4 percent, to $103.4 billion.
Low prices on groceries during an inflationary period helped sales, Wal-Mart executives said. Same-store sales in grocery were up in the single digits for the quarter in the United States. Wal-Mart said food prices rose about 1 percent in the quarter as a result of inflation.
Yet Wal-Mart had some trouble getting shoppers into the rest of the store.
In apparel, for instance. ''We're simply not converting enough of our grocery customers to shop apparel,'' said William S. Simon, the president and chief executive of Wal-Mart's United States division, in a conference call with investors.
After flirting with fashion-forward items, Wal-Mart decided to focus on basic clothes, but company executives said they did not perform well.
''It's something that we've stumbled with over the last several quarters and we're not happy with,'' Charles M. Holley Jr., the chief financial officer, said in a conference call with reporters. ''It does start with basics, and for us to be able to sell anything that's fashionable at all, we really have to get basics down first.''
While ''we had a fairly good quarter'' with items like T-shirts and underwear, he said, ''where we're still not executing is in the kids' and the women's business.''
In other departments, Wal-Mart is piling merchandise in its aisles to signal value, and is stocking items in smaller packages that someone on a budget can afford, in an effort to take market share from dollar stores.
''You see customers that are running out of money at the end of the month going to the smaller pack sizes -- they are not necessarily a better value,'' Mr. Holley said, but ''we have been continuing to work on that, so we have the smaller pack sizes.''
Wal-Mart said this strategy had been successful with products like air fresheners and fishing products, so far. ''These modular changes focused on bringing back assortment, ensuring opening price points were available in all categories, and increased the holding power on the shelf,'' Mr. Simon said.
Same-store sales were all in negative territory in categories like entertainment, including electronics; hard lines, which are items like hardware and crafts; apparel; and home.
In the United States, Wal-Mart has been making a number of changes to revive same-store sales. Michael T. Duke, chief executive of Wal-Mart, said on Tuesday that ''comp sales growth remains the greatest priority for me and the entire Wal-Mart U.S. team.''
Wal-Mart said it would continue with its expansion plans in the United States, particularly with smaller stores. Its grocery-only stores, which are called Neighborhood Markets and are about one-third the size of a typical Wal-Mart, performed well in the quarter. There, same-store sales were up 4 percent as visits by customers rose. Wal-Mart said that because of those results, it would open another 30 to 40 Neighborhood Markets this year.
The company will also open 15 to 20 Wal-Mart Express stores by the end of the year in urban and rural areas. At about 15,000 square feet, they will sell groceries ''along with key general merchandise categories,'' Mr. Simon said. They will also function as a depot of sorts for Walmart.com's items. Customers can order something from the extended online inventory, and pick it up at the store.
Analysts noted that drops in Wal-Mart's same-store sales were at least easing.
''Top-line results came in somewhat ahead of expectations, reflecting a more moderate decline in U.S. comps,'' Colin McGranahan, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, wrote in a note to clients.
Wal-Mart said it expected same-store sales to range from down 1 percent to up 1 percent in its second quarter.
Separately, Home Depot also reported earnings on Tuesday. Although its profit beat Wall Street expectations, its same-store sales in the United States declined because of the harsh winter, Craig A. Menear, its merchandising chief, said in a call with investors.
Home Depot's revenue was $16.82 billion, down from $16.86 billion in the same period a year earlier. But because of aggressive cost-cutting, its net income was up 12 percent to $812 million, or 50 cents a share, versus analyst expectations of 49 cents a share.
''It's all weather,'' Home Depot's chief financial officer, Carol B. Tome, said in an interview. ''It's not an assortment issue. It's just when it's cold and snowing and raining, people aren't going to do the outdoor products.''
Shares of Wal-Mart fell 52 cents, or about 1 percent, to $55.54 a share. Shares of Home Depot rose 1.14 percent, or 42 cents, to $37.40.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At Home Depot, executives blamed harsh winter weather for a downturn in same-store sales. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCAS JACKSON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (60%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (96%); SAM'S CLUB (69%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



571 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: Top Hispanic Name Loses Ground, Even as Birthrates Stay High

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
No way, Jose!
The most popular Hispanic name for baby boys since the Social Security Administration began counting has fallen from the Top 50 list. Even in Texas, where Jose has been No. 1 among all newborns since 1996, it was bumped to second place last year by Jacob. 
Because this happened when birthrates for Hispanic-Americans were among the highest of any ethnic or racial group, the rankings just might be a measure of assimilation, said Prof. Cleveland Kent Evans, who teaches psychology at Bellevue University in Nebraska and wrote ''The Great Big Book of Baby Names.''
''This is probably a combination of assimilation and the drop in immigration from Latin America as a result of the recession,'' Professor Evans said. ''However, it is probable that names are also becoming more varied in Latin American culture itself, as this is a phenomenon in most of the modern world.''
Jose has been in the Top 50 every year except one since 1972, though it has been declining in popularity (it ranked 28th in 2004, 43rd in 2009 and 51st in 2010). Nationwide, the most popular name for baby boys was Jacob, which has ranked first since 1999, and for girls, Isabella, which edged Emma for first place in 2009.
Two Hispanic names (Garcia and Rodriguez) made the Top 10 list of surnames in 2000 for the first time, and the popularity of Isabella this year might suggest that acculturation works both ways, changing ''the nature of U.S. culture to a certain extent,'' said Prof. Alberto Moreiras, head of the Department of Hispanic Studies at Texas A&M University. ''As it happens everywhere, name preference goes through cycles, and the name Jose has been overused over the last 20 years or so, and there are too many Joses.''
Fewer Joses were born last year, though, (7,656 of them) than in any year since 1978.
What are parents who in the past might have named their sons Jose naming their sons today?
Not Angel, Juan, Luis, Diego or Jesus. They, too, remain among the 100 most popular boys' names, but collectively, the number of babies with those names also declined in 2010 compared with the year before. Not Fernando or Jorge, either. (Angel ranked 42nd last year compared with 37th the year before.)
Experts caution against assuming assimilation as a given. ''Jonathan is a very popular name among the low-income groups in Argentina,'' said Prof. Javier Auyero, a sociologist at the University of Texas, Austin. ''That doesn't mean they are Americanized.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RANKINGS (91%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); IMMIGRATION (54%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%); NEBRASKA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (72%); ARGENTINA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



572 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: H.P. Profit Up 5%, but PC Sales Are Declining

BYLINE: By VERNE G. KOPYTOFF

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Hewlett-Packard reported on Tuesday that sluggish sales of personal computers muted its second-quarter earnings, and it predicted that future growth would be dampened.
The company reported the net income in the quarter rose 5 percent to $2.3 billion, or $1.05 cents a share, from $2.2 billion, or 91 cents, in the year-ago quarter.
The company said revenue in the quarter, which ended April 30, climbed 3 percent to $31.6 billion 
The adjusted income of $1.24 a share was slightly above the expectations of Wall Street analysts. They had expected $1.21 a share and revenue of $31.54 billion, according to a survey of analysts by Thomson Reuters.
But the company also revised its forecast for the current quarter, indicating worries about the impact of the Japan earthquake, continued softness in sales of personal computers and lower operating profits in its services unit from a reorganization.
Revenue during the current quarter is expected to be around $31.1 billion to $31.3 billion, slightly below analyst expectations of $31.8 billion. Adjusted income is expected to be around $1.08 a share, which was also below the $1.24 that had been predicted.
Full-year revenue is expected to be $129 billion to $130 billion with adjusted income of at least $5 a share, also below analyst predictions.
The company, based in Palo Alto, Calif., said that sales of personal computers fell 5 percent, to $9.4 billion. Revenue for the unit that includes printers rose 5 percent, to $6.7 billion. A 23 percent decline in consumer computer sales far outweighed a 13 percent increase in sales to businesses.
''The PC market continues to be bifurcated,'' H.P.'s chief executive, Leo Apotheker, said in a conference call with analysts. He added that ''even though our consumer PC expectations had been cautious, the steepness of our Q2 decline is greater than what we had anticipated.''
Meanwhile, H.P.'s services business, which caters to corporate clients, gained 2 percent, to $9 billion. Storage and servers increased 15 percent, to $5.6 billion.
Mr. Apotheker attributed sluggish services sales to inadequate investment in the unit, a thinly veiled critique of his predecessor, Mark V. Hurd, who was known as a cost-cutter.
H.P. said that it planned to reorganize its services business to focus on more profitable and higher-growth categories. However, analysts, in their questions, repeatedly voiced concern about the impact on profit margins and the time it will take for the extra investment to pay off.
''We are making tough decisions today to set us up for the future'' Mr. Apotheker said.
H.P. reported earnings a day earlier than originally planned after an internal memo from Mr. Apotheker, warning of ''another tough quarter'' leaked to the press. His comments immediately cast doubt about the company's growth and sent its shares spiraling.
They fell 4.5 percent to $38 in after-hours trading on Monday.
The memo, first reported by Bloomberg News, also alluded to potential layoffs and other cost-cutting measures.
Nevertheless, Mr. Apotheker said in a news release on Tuesday that, ''H.P. executed well and delivered a solid quarter.'' He also said: ''Our enterprise strategy, with services at its core, is focused on higher value-added solutions. Today we are accelerating our efforts to align our services business model to our long-term strategy to deliver unprecedented value to our customers and a better return for our shareholders.''
Mr. Apotheker sidestepped questions in the conference call about job cuts in a call with reporters, saying only that ''we will continue to manage our business prudently.''
Companies like H.P. that make personal computers are vulnerable to changes in consumer spending because of the economy. Moreover, shoppers are increasingly buying tablet computers, a market in which Hewlett-Packard is bit player to Apple's iPad. The company has said it expects to sell a tablet computer this summer.
In March, Mr. Apotheker outlined a plan to expand H.P.'s tiny corporate software business and expand into the cloud -- a term used to describe products and services delivered online. However, that strategy, which puts the company on a collision course with I.B.M and Oracle, will take some time to get rolling.
Software sales grew 17 percent, to $764 million, in the quarter.
Shares fell more than 8 percent to $36.51 in midday trading on Tuesday, to their lowest level in nearly two years. H.P.'s shares have dropped nearly 33 percent from 12 months ago while the Nasdaq composite index gained 18 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (93%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); NETWORK SERVERS (79%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); EXECUTIVES (63%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: MARK HURD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



573 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: A Once-Empty Theater Plays A Leading Role in a Revival

BYLINE: By JEFF SCHLEGEL

 BODY:
WILMINGTON, Del. -- A recent Saturday gathering of children eating peanut butter and jelly sandwiches and bouncing to the beat of an African band in a renovated theater was a fitting symbol for the continuing efforts to revive the city's Market Street corridor.
The lunchtime concert was in the once-grand Queen Theater, which had sat vacant for more than 50 years until a $25 million renovation brought it back to life in April as a restaurant and live-music space. The theater is considered the anchor of an ambitious public-private partnership to breathe new life into a nine-block stretch of Market Street that connects Wilmington's thriving central business district and the Christina River's redeveloped waterfront of office, residential and retail space. 
Market Street was once Wilmington's commercial hub, but shoppers fled to suburban malls long ago, and its conversion into a pedestrian mall in the 1970s never panned out. Its fortunes began to change when the city reopened the entire street to vehicles in 2007.
''When Market Street reopened, we saw the architecture and the opportunities and we bought 28 buildings,'' said Chris Buccini, a managing partner of the Buccini/Pollin Group, a real estate development and management company that focuses on the mid-Atlantic region and has been the biggest player in Market Street's makeover.
The architecture of the corridor's two- to four-story buildings ranges from late-19th-century styles to Art Deco. Their bones were solid, but much of the upper floor space was vacant and neglected. Mr. Buccini's company and other private developers, local businesses and foundations and city officials came together to create the Lower Market Design District, or LOMA, short for Lower Market. It now encompasses Market Street from the river up to Rodney Square, Wilmington's epicenter. It also includes properties on adjacent King and Shipley streets.
Wilmington's economy is driven by DuPont, which has its headquarters here, as well as the credit card services divisions of banks like JPMorgan Chase, Barclays and Bank of America. The city is also a magnet for law firms who argue cases at the Delaware Court of Chancery, described as the nation's leading business court.
The LOMA district has several missions. One is to bring in boutiques and entertainment options, like bars and restaurants. Another is to attract the so-called creative class, including artists and small but growing software, design and marketing companies. And developers are converting the vacant upper floors into apartments, aimed mainly at the city's young professionals.
At one of Mr. Buccini's properties, on the 900 block of Market Street, a former office building has been converted into a Public House restaurant. He said rent in the upstairs apartments range from $900 for a studio to up to $2,400 for a two-bedroom unit, and that the units are almost fully leased.
As he walked along Market Street's brick sidewalks and vintage street lamps, Mr. Buccini pointed to some of the corridor's additions, including a tapas restaurant and some cutting-edge clothing stores. He stopped in front of one of his properties, an empty WSFS Financial bank branch, which he said he was in no rush to fill. ''Honestly, we're waiting for something cool to come in here,'' he said. ''Maybe do a ping pong/pool hall/bar kind of place.''
From a retail perspective, Mr. Buccini, a Wilmington native, said the goal was to fill the district with distinctive businesses to make it stand out from suburban shopping options. ''We want local and regional players to create a more homegrown, folksy feel,'' he said.
He said LOMA's makeover would not have been possible without federal New Market Tax Credits and enormous help from the city. New Market Tax Credits is a Treasury Department program that promotes investment in low-income neighborhoods by providing tax credits equal to 39 percent of qualified investments in those communities. The credit is claimed over a seven-year period.
The city created the $15 million Upstairs Fund to provide loans to help developers and local businesses renovate LOMA buildings by sprucing up facades and bringing neglected buildings up to code.
''Government has to look at its historical building fabric as infrastructure, even though it's privately owned,'' said Jeff Flynn, Wilmington's deputy director of economic development. ''You can't have blighted buildings and expect people to come into your city.''
Mr. Flynn said the city's renovation fund contributed $3 million toward the project to convert the Queen Theater into a World Cafe Live venue. The original World Cafe Live in Philadelphia is a concert and dining facility that houses the studios of a popular adult alternative radio station, WXPN, and licenses the name of the station's nationally syndicated World Cafe Live program.
It has been a huge success, and Wilmington officials and the Buccini/Pollin Group asked Hal Real, the president of Real Entertainment Group and the concept's creator, to open a World Cafe Live on Market Street. It wasn't his first choice for expansion, he said, but he soon embraced the opportunity. ''A lot of people are looking at the Queen as the catalyst to bring Market Street back to life,'' Mr. Real said.
The World Cafe Live at the Queen's main music hall, with its mix of new construction and rustic remnants from the old theater, holds up to 800 people. A smaller hall can accommodate up to 250 people. Mr. Real said he expected the theater would host 350 to 400 events annually.
Mr. Flynn said that the Market Street corridor had attracted roughly $250 million in investments and that vacancy rates in renovated buildings were low. But he quickly added that LOMA remained a work in progress. ''We measure success in decades,'' he said.
Other people see success coming more quickly. ''The LOMA area isn't completely there yet, but it has vibrant potential,'' said Don Meginley, the president of Preservation Initiatives. His firm specializes in adaptive reuse of historic properties, and has played a big role in renovating the lower end of Market Street. ''I think we will see dramatic changes over the next 18 to 30 months. The Queen is so huge in this equation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chris Buccini, a developer, near the Queen Theater, the centerpiece of a renewal project on Market Street in Wilmington, Del. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM SHAFFER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Lower Market Street was once the city's commercial hub. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (88%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); CITIES (72%); LAWYERS (67%); LEGAL SERVICES (66%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (63%); DRINKING PLACES (60%); SUBURBS (53%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (50%); CREDIT CARDS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (81%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (81%); JPM (LSE) (81%); 8634 (TSE) (81%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (81%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (94%) DELAWARE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



574 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (HBO2) BURMA SOLDIER (2011) Like many young, unemployed men in Burma -- now known as Myanmar -- Myo Myint Cho, above, joined the army at 17 to find security and respect and to earn a living. While undergoing training that encouraged torture and even killing to suppress insurgency, he began working as an engineer, mapping and clearing landmines. But after witnessing atrocities against civilians and losing an arm, a leg and several fingers to a mortar blast, Mr. Cho left the army. He built a secret library of banned books and organized demonstrations against the regime. This film from Nic Dunlop, Annie Sundberg and Ricki Stern uses testimony, archival film footage and smuggled photographs to trace the country's history and expose abuses inflicted by the one-party system established in 1962 by Gen. Ne Win. After serving 15 years in prison for his pro-democracy political beliefs, Mr. Cho joined his brother and sister in Fort Wayne, Ind., home to one of the largest Burmese communities in the United States. Colin Farrell narrates. 
7:15 P.M. (HBO Signature) TRANSAMERICA (2005) Felicity Huffman plays Bree, a preoperative transsexual who, though still technically a man, passes for a woman through the use of tasteful pink outfits, meticulously applied makeup and a breathy voice. But before her gender-reassignment surgery she needs to tie up a loose end, and soon Bree is on the road with the previously unknown son (Kevin Zegers) she long ago fathered when she was known as Stanley. ''In this debut feature by Duncan Tucker, who wrote and directed it, 'Transamerica' sets out to affirm Bree's dignity, to liberate her and others like her from any association with camp or freakishness,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times. ''That the film succeeds without slipping too far into sentimentality or didacticism is in no small measure the result of Ms. Huffman's wit and grace. (She may also be the first film actor of either sex to do frontal nudity, in a single movie, as both.)''
8 P.M. (Fox) AMERICAN IDOL The remaining three finalists -- Haley Reinhart, Lauren Alaina and Scotty McCreery -- perform three songs each: one chosen by the judges; another chosen by Jimmy Iovine, the music producer and chairman of Interscope Geffen A&M; and an individual choice. The competitors also visit their hometowns.
8 P.M. (LMN) COCO CHANEL (2008) Shirley MacLaine channels Chanel, and wears it too, in this three-hour television movie about the ragtag orphan who ascended to the stratosphere of the fashion world. Malcolm McDowell plays Marc Bouchier, Chanel's business partner, who tries to bring about her comeback in 1954, the year this story begins; Barbora Bobulova portrays Chanel as a young girl in 1912, when she leaves a convent school to become a dressmaker's apprentice.
9 P.M. (CW) AMERICA'S NEXT TOP MODEL The final two models, Brittani and Molly, shoot a CoverGirl commercial and take one last stroll down the runway before the judges choose the winner.
10 P.M. (Comedy Central) SOUTH PARK Cartman ends up in anger-management therapy after throwing a fit when the school posts on a bulletin board the sizes of certain anatomical parts of its male students.
10 P.M. (Flix) MY DINNER WITH ANDRE (1981) The writer and actor Wallace Shawn and the director and actor Andre Gregory, playing versions of themselves, talk about their lives over the course of a meal. Louis Malle directed.
10 P.M. (Sundance) THE MOTORCYCLE DIARIES (2004) In the spring of 1952, Alberto Granado (Rodrigo de la Serna), a 29-year-old biochemist, and Ernesto Guevara de la Serna (Gael Garcia Bernal, driving, with Mr. de la Serna), a 23-year-old medical student -- and the revolutionary who would come to be known as Che -- set out by motorcycle from Buenos Aires up the spine of Chile, across the Andes and into the Peruvian Amazon. They made it, though their motorcycle did not, and in the process produced written accounts of their adventures. At times this ''stirring and warm-hearted reconstruction of that long-ago voyage'' from Walter Salles ''bounces along like a conventional buddy picture, animated by Ernesto and Alberto's mechanical mishaps and good-natured squabbles,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The Times. ''But the film, written by Jose Rivera, is really a love story in the form of a travelogue. The love it chronicles is no less profound -- and no less stirring to the senses -- for taking place not between two people but between a person and a continent. Mr. Bernal's soulful, magnetic performance notwithstanding, the real star of the film is South America itself, revealed in the cinematographer Eric Gautier's misty green images as a land of jarring and enigmatic beauty.'' KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY NIC DUNLOP/HBO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENDER IDENTITY DISORDER (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); CENSORSHIP (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); FILM DIRECTORS (74%); FILM (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); LANDMINES (71%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); FASHION & APPAREL (65%); REALITY TELEVISION (60%); HISTORY (54%)

PERSON: FELICITY HUFFMAN (54%); JIMMY IOVINE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT WAYNE, IN, USA (76%) INDIANA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



575 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: Signs of a Gas Price Pinch

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH and STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
High gasoline prices have not derailed the economic recovery, but that's small comfort to Loraine Greene. A customer relations manager in the Hudson Valley of New York, Ms. Greene spent the weekend packing up to move to a rental house much closer to work.
At $4 a gallon, gas is too expensive to justify the 50-mile round-trip commute.
''The option was either to sell my truck and get something smaller, or to try to get closer to work,'' said Ms. Greene. She chose to move. The new house is just eight miles from the office.
Economists say steady job growth over the last three months, as well as this year's federal payroll tax cut, have offset the downward pull of rising energy costs on the economy as a whole. But like a lot of economic news these days, what looks good on paper does not feel good for Americans still digging their way out of the recent recession. 
At a True Value hardware store in Wilmington, Del., customers stressed by the cost of filling their tanks are buying more replacement parts for wheelbarrows and lawn mowers instead of buying new equipment.
In the San Francisco Bay area, the daily number of cars driving across the Golden Gate Bridge has dropped while passengers on the buses and ferries have risen.
''If all your customers are paying $50 for a tank of gas that they used to pay $25 for, somebody is not getting that $25,'' said William Dunkelberg, chief economist for the National Federation of Independent Business.
According to a recent survey, one in four small businesses cited weak sales as their No. 1 problem.
Although gas prices have eased slightly in recent weeks, they are, on average, up about 30 percent over a year earlier. High oil prices have also driven up prices of food, airfares and even taxi rides in some regions, diverting consumers from other purchases.
The nation's largest retailer, Wal-Mart, which reported earnings on Tuesday, said high gas prices had restrained its shoppers, and its business. Sales at stores open at least a year fell by 1.1 percent in the first quarter, as visits to stores in the United States declined.
''Our customers are consolidating trips due to higher gas prices,'' said Bill Simon, who oversees the United States business. It was the eighth consecutive decline in same-store sales at Wal-Mart.
Lowe's, the home improvement chain, which reported a 5.7 percent slide in quarterly profits on Monday, said its traffic was down 3.4 percent in the quarter as customers made fewer trips.
''Rising gas and energy prices are cited by homeowners as the top factor affecting future spending plans, followed by the state of the overall economy and inflation in general,'' said Lowe's chief executive, Robert A. Niblock, explaining earnings that missed analysts' expectations in a conference call with investors.
MasterCard Advisors' SpendingPulse, which researches consumer spending, reported on Tuesday that the gallons of gas pumped nationwide in the last month fell by 1 percent from the period a year ago.
Conserving miles has become a new business priority at Topical BioMedics, where Ms. Greene works in Rhinebeck, N.Y. Her boss, Lou Paradise, recently invested in cloud computing so employees could access documents and programs and work from home more. He hands out gas cards as bonuses and birthday gifts, and holds seminars on how to make a car more energy-efficient. And when employees have to drive somewhere on business, he urges them to use the company cars -- a Volkswagen TDI, a clean-diesel car and a Ford Transit Connect van, which is relatively fuel-efficient.
Other companies are also trying to help workers cope with high gas prices. Robert Trow, who runs a small distribution company in Mashpee, Mass., recently gave his employees a raise -- on top of the one he gave in December -- to help them deal with pump prices.
At the hair products business Paul Mitchell, which is based in the Los Angeles area, the company gives employees 20 cents a mile when they carpool, and covers bus fare in full. More employees are taking the company up on the offers now. Even the chief financial officer, Rick Battaglini, has begun carpooling to work.
Over all, the economy, though still slowly mending, has largely been able to shrug off the effects of high gas prices. Since the beginning of the year, employers have added more than 750,000 jobs, which puts more money into the economy in the form of additional paychecks.
And while the rise in gas prices since the beginning of the year roughly translates into a loss of $75 billion to $100 billion in spending power if sustained for the entire year, the payroll tax cuts adds back about $112 billion, according to an analysis by Credit Suisse.
''It looks like those two things have fought each other to a standstill,'' said Neal Soss, chief economist at Credit Suisse.
Some have benefited from the higher gas prices. Online sales boomed in April as shoppers stayed home on weekends, clicking a mouse instead of driving a car. E-commerce sales grew 19.2 percent in April compared with a year earlier, the biggest increase since July 2007, according to SpendingPulse.
Car sales have also risen recently as consumers choose smaller cars. In April, vehicle sales rose 18 percent, as shoppers turned toward compact and fuel-efficient models like the Chevrolet Cruze, Ford Fiesta and Focus models, and even electric cars like the Nissan Leaf.
Tom Veasey, owner of the True Value in Wilmington, said that customers had been grumbling to cashiers about the high cost of driving, and those who might previously have traveled five miles to a Home Depot were now shopping in his store. But total sales were still flat, he said, as an increasing number of customers replaced parts rather than bought new gear.
''A new wheelbarrow is $59.95'' and they can get a new tire for $20, Mr. Veasey said. ''When things are going good they will just buy something new and save themselves the time it takes to repair something.''
Airlines and hotel companies say that improvements in the broader economy are helping them continue to sell tickets and rooms. A Gallup poll released on Monday showed that more than six in 10 Americans planned to take a vacation away from home this summer, although they expected to pay more for transportation costs than last year.
Henry Harteveldt, travel industry analyst at Forrester Research, said he had detected a deceleration in advance reservations. ''The booking path has been slowing down,'' he said. ''We're now getting into the heavy intense period for summer vacation planning and there is concern among hotel operators that because gas prices are higher whether the customer is flying or driving, there will be less discretionary budget to spend'' on things like restaurants, entertainment and other businesses that rely on travelers. For now, analysts expect oil prices to level off rather than shoot higher. But if the recent softening reverses and gas prices go higher, economists suspect that more consumers will react.
''There is some point where people may get a little more panicky about it rather than simply adjusting to it,'' Mr. Soss said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Higher gas prices forced Loraine Greene to move closer to work. A neighbor, Danny Snyder, helped her pack up her home. (B1)
 Loraine Greene said her options were to buy a more efficient truck, or move closer to work. She decided to move to a house just eight miles from the office.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSAN STAVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B10) CHART: Higher Price to Fill Up (Source: Energy Information Administration) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOME CENTERS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); RECESSION (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); SALES FIGURES (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); HARDWARE STORES (72%); RETAILERS (72%); FERRIES (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); COMPANY EARNINGS (66%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (60%); AIR FARES (50%)

COMPANY: TRUE VALUE CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444130 HARDWARE STORES (55%); NAICS424950 PAINT, VARNISH & SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); SIC5083 FARM & GARDEN MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (55%); SIC5072 HARDWARE (55%)

PERSON: ROBERT A NIBLOCK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



576 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: As Uprisings Transform Mideast, Obama Aims to Reshape the Peace Debate

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Six months after the Arab world erupted in a political firestorm, President Obama has been searching for ways to link the region's historic transformation to the long-stymied peace negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians. It is far from clear how he can do that.
Mr. Obama will have a chance to reshape the debate on Thursday, when he delivers a major speech on the region at the State Department. The president plans to argue that the political upheaval raises the prospect for progress on all fronts, and will offer ''some specific new ideas about U.S. policy toward the region,'' the White House press secretary, Jay Carney, said Tuesday. 
Officials said Mr. Obama was weighing whether to formally endorse Israel's pre-1967 borders as the starting point for negotiations over a Palestinian state -- a move that would be less a policy shift than a signal by the United States that it expected Israel to make concessions in pursuit of an agreement.
But several officials said the president did not plan to present an American blueprint for breaking the stalemate between the Israelis and Palestinians. In the absence of that, experts said, there is little he can do to draw the two sides closer, especially since the Arab upheaval has deepened the rift between them.
Mr. Obama has been grappling for a more coherent response to the violent crackdowns in Bahrain, Syria and Yemen and may use the opportunity to increase the pressure on Syria's president, Bashar al-Assad. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said stiffer sanctions against the Assad government could be imposed in the coming days.
Beyond the sanctions, Mr. Obama may personally criticize Mr. Assad in his speech, abandoning his somewhat restrained response to the Syrian government's repression of protesters. Some administration officials said the American reticence stemmed in part from a hope, clearly unfulfilled, that the tumult could serve as a wedge to peel the Syrian government away from its alliance with Iran.
For Arab allies of the United States, Mr. Obama is offering encouragement to pursue reforms. On Tuesday, he welcomed King Abdullah II of Jordan to the White House and announced more than $400 million in American investments in Jordan, as well as aid in the form of 50,000 tons of wheat, which he said would help Jordanians and allow the government to speed up its overhaul of the economy.
Mr. Obama's speech comes during a hectic week of Middle East diplomacy. In addition to King Abdullah, the president plans to meet with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel on Friday. On Sunday, he is to address a major pro-Israel lobbying group, the American Israeli Public Affairs Committee. And later next week, Mr. Netanyahu plans to deliver his own speech, before a joint session of Congress.
But the whirl of activity comes against one of the most forbidding backdrops for the peace process in many years. Israeli security forces clashed with thousands of Palestinian protesters who marched into border areas on Sunday. And the Palestinian Fatah party recently signed a unity agreement with the Islamic militant group Hamas, which Mr. Netanyahu condemned as antithetical to a peace deal.
''I've never been more concerned about where this is headed than I am now,'' said Robert Danin, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations who used to run the Jerusalem office of the group known as the Middle East quartet. ''There seems to be increased momentum towards what could be a real explosion.''
Mr. Obama had considered laying out American parameters for a peace deal, several officials said -- a move that Mrs. Clinton favored, but one that would have put him at odds with his national security adviser, Thomas E. Donilon, and his top Middle East adviser, Dennis Ross.
But the unity accord between Hamas and Fatah, the party of President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority, effectively killed the plans to try to push through an American proposal, one administration official said. ''It's hard to imagine how we do that when Hamas hasn't agreed'' to recognize Israel's right to exist and to forswear violence against Israel, the official said.
On Tuesday, Mr. Obama reaffirmed his commitment to help broker a deal between the Israelis and Palestinians.
''Despite the many changes, or perhaps because of the many changes that are taking place in the region, it's more vital than ever that both Israelis and Palestinians find a way to get back to the table and begin negotiating a process whereby they can create two states that are living side by side in peace and security,'' the president said after his Oval Office meeting with King Abdullah.
Palestinian officials said they were forging ahead with their own plans to pursue United Nations recognition of a Palestinian state when the General Assembly meets in September in New York -- a gambit that alarms American officials, who loathe being put in the position of having to vote against Palestinian statehood just as popular democratic movements are taking hold throughout the Middle East.
In an Op-Ed article in The New York Times on Tuesday that analysts interpreted as the diplomatic equivalent of a declaration of war on the status quo, Mr. Abbas said flatly that he would request international recognition of the state of Palestine, based on the borders of Israel before the 1967 Arab-Israeli war.
Such a move would most likely get a lopsided majority of votes in the General Assembly, diplomats said, with Latin American, African, Asian and Middle Eastern countries all expected to vote in favor of it.
That, by itself, would be embarrassing to Israel. So Israeli officials are trying to make sure that big European countries, including France, Italy, Britain and Germany, join the United States in either voting against it or abstaining, thus denying the Palestinians' plan recognition by the major world powers.
For the Palestinians, a formal American endorsement of the 1967 borders as a baseline for negotiations might make them somewhat less suspicious about returning to the table. Israel has historically rejected any preconditions for talks, and analysts said Mr. Netanyahu's reaction would be critical.
In a speech on Monday to the Israeli Parliament, Mr. Netanyahu ruled out any dealings with Hamas but suggested that Israel would be open to surrendering most of the West Bank in a peace agreement with the Palestinians.
The speech by Mr. Netanyahu ''was more forthcoming than I've seen him in the past,'' said David Makovsky, a senior fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. ''It actually gave me some hope for the peace process.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama met with King Abdullah II of Jordan at the White House on Tuesday and offered support for his reforms. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); LOBBYING (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (78%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); SYRIA (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); JORDAN (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); BAHRAIN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



577 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: President Obama and the Arab Spring: His speech on Thursday must articulate support for democratic change -- and a peace deal

 BODY:
It should be no surprise that the ferment in the Arab world has touched the Palestinians, whose promised two-state solution is no closer than ever. On Sunday, the anniversary of Israel's creation, thousands marching from Syria, Gaza, Lebanon and the West Bank breached Israel's borders and confronted Israeli troops. More than a dozen people were killed; scores were injured.
According to The Times's Ethan Bronner, the protests were coordinated via social media, but they also appeared to have support from Lebanon and President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, who is eager to divert attention from his crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators. 
Israel must defend its territory. But the protests and the casualties might have been avoided if credible peace negotiations were under way. Since President Obama took office, Israeli and Palestinian leaders have had just three weeks of direct talks. Last week, George Mitchell, Mr. Obama's Middle East envoy, quit.
There is blame all around: Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, who is scheduled to meet with Mr. Obama at the White House on Friday, has shown little interest in negotiations and has used the regional turmoil as one more excuse to hunker down. Arab leaders haven't given him much incentive to compromise. President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority wants a deal but seemed to give up after Mr. Obama couldn't deliver a promised settlement freeze.
President Obama has done far too little to break the stalemate. As he prepares to give a speech on Thursday on the Arab Spring, the White House signaled that he is unlikely to offer any new initiative to revive peace talks.
Frankly, we do not see how Mr. Obama can talk persuasively about transformation in the Arab world without showing Palestinians a peaceful way forward. It is time for Mr. Obama, alone or with crucial allies, to put a map and a deal on the table. The two sides will not break the impasse by themselves.
This is a singular moment of great opportunity and challenge in the Arab world. The United States and other democracies cannot dictate the outcome but must invest maximum effort and creativity to help shape it. There is no one-size-fits-all doctrine for dealing with disparate countries. The United States and its allies are right to balance values and strategic interests.
Still, Mr. Obama can use the speech to articulate principles that Arab countries should follow as a condition of Western economic and political support: democratic elections, free markets, peaceful relations with neighboring states -- including Israel -- rights for women and minorities, the rule of law.
He should press American allies to lay out similar principles when the Group of 8 industrialized nations meets this month in France and back them up with clear offers of support. The United States and its allies must help Tunisia and Egypt -- their struggles have inspired the region -- weather severe economic problems, providing debt relief, trade and access to international financial institutions. Civil society groups need support.
President Obama raised great hopes in 2009 when he spoke in Cairo about ''a new beginning'' with the Muslim world. The glow has faded. He has another chance this week to bolster this country's image and to help support democratic change in the region. Reviving the peace process must be part of that effort. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict wasn't central to protests in Egypt, Libya or Syria. But as Mr. Assad proved, it is still a far too potent weapon for autocrats and extremists.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); WOMEN (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); ARMED FORCES (57%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (93%); LEBANON (93%); EGYPT (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); FRANCE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011



578 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WASHINGTON; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: Ryan Says He Will Stay in the House

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
Representative Paul D. Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican and the chairman of the House Budget Committee, made it clear on Tuesday that he would not run for the Senate seat being vacated by Herb Kohl, a Democrat who was first elected in 1988. Instead, Mr. Ryan said he would remain in the House and lead the Republican fight over the budget and the national debt. ''Our nation is quickly approaching a debt crisis that will do serious damage to Wisconsinites and all Americans if it is not properly addressed,'' Mr. Ryan said in a statement on his Web site. ''I believe continuing to serve as chairman of the House Budget Committee allows me to have a greater impact in averting this debt-fueled economic crisis than if I were to run for the United States Senate.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (88%); DEBT CRISIS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (87%); PUBLIC DEBT (87%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (92%); HERB KOHL (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



579 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1628 words

HEADLINE: Atop I.M.F., Contradiction And Energy

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr. and STEVEN ERLANGER; Sheryl Gay Stolberg, Binyamin Appelbaum and Graham Bowley contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Artful politician that he is, Dominique Strauss-Kahn has a keen sense for not just his strengths but also his potential weaknesses -- though few would be quite as blunt in saying so.
Considered the Socialist party's leading candidate for president of France, Mr. Strauss-Kahn identified three threats to his aspirations in an interview with the newspaper Liberation, held on April 28 but published only this week. ''Money, women and my Jewishness,'' he said. ''Yes, I like women,'' he went on. ''So what?''
Mr. Strauss-Kahn added, ''For years they've been talking about photos of giant orgies, but I've never seen anything come out.''
Today, Mr. Strauss-Kahn sits in a jail cell on Rikers Island in New York, his reputation -- and any political ambitions -- perhaps irreparably tarnished by his arrest on charges of attempted rape of a hotel maid in Manhattan last weekend. 
It is a humbling comedown for Mr. Strauss-Kahn, whose rise on the world stage has been marked by contradictions.
As managing director of the International Monetary Fund in Washington since late 2007, Mr. Strauss-Kahn has returned the agency to relevance by helping engineer a $1 trillion bailout for Europe -- but only after an initial humiliation when he was reprimanded for a brief affair in 2008 with a subordinate.
A prominent Socialist, he has held powerful positions in previous French governments despite his wealth, lavish lifestyle and his reputation as a womanizer.
A man with an impressive intellect, great charm and restless energy, his flaws have been accepted because of his accomplishments. ''Even the chatter about women was discounted enormously by everyone around him,'' said Steven C. Clemons, director of the American Strategy program at the New America Foundation who first met Mr. Strauss-Kahn in 1998 and was impressed by his strong personality.
''I don't think there was a conspiracy of silence,'' Mr. Clemons said. ''The discussion I always heard about him was he's one of the titans, that he's such an extraordinarily different person, that rules don't apply to him in the same way.''
One former I.M.F. official said that, had Mr. Strauss-Kahn been a less senior person, he might been fired or at least ''sent to Siberia'' because of the affair with his underling. He survived an investigation, in part, this person said, because the culture at the I.M.F. dictated ''no rules'' for the managing director and because there was little appetite to rid the agency of a charismatic and effective leader when an international financial crisis looming.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn arrived at the I.M.F. at what would be an opportune time for him and the agency, which had become an international organization with little clout since the Southeast Asia financial crisis in the mid 1990s. A former finance minister for France, he had a deep knowledge of international economics and was on a first-name basis with most of Europe's top leadership.
He played a pivotal role as Europe's debt crisis deepened last May, and leaders were deadlocked over what to do. In midnight phone calls, Mr. Strauss-Kahn pressed them to take action. Quickly, he urged, before things got worse. His insistence helped overcome their hesitance, and they agreed to a set up a $1 trillion rescue package to help Greece and other troubled countries, with the I.M.F. contributing to the bailout fund. And as countries like Germany pushed for harder austerity terms, he was vocal in saying that could backfire by slowing economic growth too much -- which seems to be the case in Greece today.
''The only real strength of the I.M.F. is the ruthlessness of truth-telling,'' Mr. Strauss-Kahn said at the time.
''Early on, the Europeans were in complete denial. I think his main accomplishment will go down as persuading them that they had to deal with Greece before it was too late. And he did that not by bullying them, not by banging the table, but much more by coaxing and persuading them,'' said Simon Johnson, who was the I.M.F.'s chief economist from March 2007 to August 2008.
It was a seminal triumph for the I.M.F. and a moment to savor for Mr. Strauss-Kahn, who was already winning plaudits after the inauspicious start resulting from the affair.
He had a reputation as a skilled, hands-on and tough-minded manager who did not shy from making tough decisions. He cut the I.M.F.'s staff by 400 to reduce costs. But he still managed to command the loyalty of his staff, by engaging them on their own terms, and by delving into the details of their highly technical research, according to several current and former fund employees. Traveling constantly, Mr. Strauss-Kahn is known to carry two BlackBerrys with him -- one encrypted and the other not -- to stay in constant touch. Those on the receiving end say his messages often come adorned with two smiley faces.
''For a guy who was so flamboyant, he found a way to get things done, to save the institution by working behind the scenes,'' said one official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. ''He is effective at maneuvering in very, very high circles -- which is really not at all an easy thing to do.''
Mr. Strauss-Kahn and his third wife, the American-born French journalist Anne Sinclair, have kept a surprisingly low profile in Washington, despite their prominence in France.
Ms. Sinclair, who inherited a fortune from her grandfather, an art merchant who had exclusive contracts with Matisse and Picasso, was a famous television interviewer in France, a kind of Barbara Walters, before moving to Washington with Mr. Strauss-Kahn.
They live in a 5-bedroom, 5-bath brick home in fashionable Georgetown; the house, bought in 2007 for $4 million, is in her name, real estate records show. They own two apartments in France, one that cost 4 million euros ($5.7 million) that was bought with cash, and a penthouse bought by Ms. Sinclair in 1990 for 2.5 million euros ($3.5 million), the year before they married. They also own a century riad, or private house, in Marrakesh, Morocco, bought for 500,000 euros ($706,000) in 2000.
The couple's wealth enabled them to live well beyond his I.M.F. salary of about $442,000 -- tax-free, as are salaries for many employees at international agencies -- and an expense allowance of $79,120, according to the 2010 I.M.F. annual report. His marriage to Ms. Sinclair and their lifestyle have led to Mr. Strauss-Kahn being called a caviar socialist, a term used in France, an image that was reinforced recently with the publication of a photo of him stepping into a Porsche in Paris.
For all their connections, the couple does not often turn up at A-list parties in Washington or mingle with the city's political elite. ''I've never met them, I don't know anything about them and I can't find anybody who has met them,'' said Sally Quinn, the Georgetown doyenne and wife of the former Washington Post executive editor Ben Bradlee. ''It's weird; we've always known the head of the I.M.F. before.''
Mr. Strauss-Kahn has managed to rise to the corridors of power in France even though he did not graduate from the elite Ecole Nationale d'Administration -- he failed the entrance examination -- though he later taught there after graduating from another French university. He met his first wife in high school in Monaco and married her when he was 18. They had three children before divorcing. In 1986, he married his second wife, who had given birth to their only child a year earlier. He and Ms. Sinclair have no children together.
Ms. Sinclair has supported Mr. Strauss-Kahn through all his reported indiscretions since their marriage in 1991. Tristane Banon, a journalist and writer, publicly claimed in 2007 that Mr. Strauss-Kahn tried to rape her during an interview in 2002, when she was 22. Aurelie Filipetti, a respected Socialist parliamentarian in France, said in 2008 that she had been groped by Mr. Strauss-Kahn and would ''forever make sure'' she was never ''alone in a room with him.''
In their 2006 book ''Sexus Politicus'' on the sexual behavior of politicians, the French journalists Christophe Deloire and Christophe Dubois devoted an entire chapter to Mr. Strauss-Kahn under the heading, ''The DSK Affair.'' They cite the case of a young journalist who tells the authors she had met Mr. Strauss-Kahn when she was researching a book on the professional failure of leaders. ''He was so forward in his manner and inappropriate that she was on the point of lodging a complaint,'' they wrote. They added that ''his art of seduction which can reach obsessiveness has no equal besides his intellect.''
After Mr. Strauss-Kahn's brief affair with a Hungarian economist at the I.M.F. in early 2008 came to light, he was allowed to stay after an investigation found that he had not abused the power of his office. Still, he was chastised for inappropriate behavior and apologized.
The I.M.F. maintains a more permissive stance toward sexual relationships between supervisors and subordinates than other multinational organizations. Its ethics policy states that such relationships ''do not, in themselves, constitute harassment.'' The World Bank, by contrast, says such a relationship is ''a de facto conflict of interest.''
When -- even if -- Mr. Strauss-Kahn will ever return to his expansive high-ceilinged office on the 12th floor of the I.M.F. building in Washington is not clear. The office has a reception area, a comfortable couch in a sitting area, a conference room and a bathroom. ''It exuded power,'' said one former IMF official.
All of which is a far remove from his cell in Rikers Island, where Mr. Strauss-Kahn has been ordered to stay pending trial. His lawyers are fighting for his release on the $1 million bail posted by his wife, arguing that he suffers from sleep apnea and that he should not be considered a flight risk.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dominique Strauss-Kahn, left, head of the I.M.F., with Jean-Claude Trichet, of the European Central Bank, last December. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOCK FISTICK/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
Anne Sinclair, top, the wife of Dominique Strauss-Kahn, is an American-born French journalist. The French writer Tristane Banon, above, said Mr. Strauss-Kahn tried to rape her in 2002. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 CHARLES PLATIAU/REUTERS) (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (89%); POLITICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); BAILOUTS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (68%); SEX OFFENSES (67%); ARRESTS (67%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (94%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (88%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



580 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: Wagons North!

 BODY:
Mayor Michael Bloomberg didn't make many friends when he offered his own idea for saving Detroit, which has lost one-fourth of its population over the last decade. 
Speaking on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC earlier this month, he suggested that Congress ''pass a law letting immigrants come in as long as they agree to go to Detroit and live there for five or 10 years, start businesses, take jobs, whatever. You would populate Detroit overnight because half the world wants to come here.''
Detroiters like Mayor Dave Bing were displeased (the fact that Mr. Bloomberg had called him a ''great mayor'' didn't quell his pique). ''I don't know what he was on,'' Mr. Bing said, pointing out that his city had scarcely enough jobs to sustain the people already there. Yet Mr. Bloomberg had the big picture exactly right: immigrants and economic vitality go together. That was certainly the experience of New York City, which was on life support in the 1970s until a transfusion of immigrant energy and entrepreneurship brought it roaring back.
Renewal by immigrants is the fundamental American narrative, the story of people in ships, then covered wagons, coming to settle and make fruitful a land that rewarded their courage and grit. Except now that story is scorned and discarded, along with many of those immigrants.
Bills to streamline and increase legal immigration die in Congress. There are no visas of the type Mr. Bloomberg imagines, though we could use immigrant entrepreneurs in Detroit, Buffalo, New York City -- all over. Nearly 150 years after President Lincoln signed the Homestead Act, the new frontier is in the inner city, not way out West. There is no federal or state Department of Urban Homesteading, but -- DUH -- maybe there should be.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); CITY LIFE (68%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



581 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Line Up to Succeed Jailed I.M.F. Chief

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN; Katrin Bennhold contributed reporting.

 BODY:
PARIS -- As Dominique Strauss-Kahn was left to spend another day behind bars in New York, a pack of would-be successors wasted little time Tuesday maneuvering for his job as managing director of the International Monetary Fund, one of the most powerful positions in global finance, and U.S. officials openly suggested that he step down.
''He is obviously not in a position to run the I.M.F.,'' Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner said in New York.
While Mr. Strauss-Kahn has not yet resigned from his position after being sent on Monday to New York's notorious Rikers Island jail on accusations of attempted rape, European officials intensified their lobbying for another European to head the fund, citing deepening uncertainties over the continent's debt crisis. 
Since it was formed after World War II, the I.M.F. has traditionally been run by a European, while the World Bank has long been headed by an American. But for the first time, there is a genuine possibility that the I.M.F. position could go to an official from a faster-growing non-Western country, reflecting the shifting global economy.
Policymakers from emerging markets say the time has come for them to exert more influence at the agency as their weight in the world economy has reached critical mass.
Among some potential candidates, modesty was not a characteristic widely on display.
Turkey's finance minister, Mehmet Simsek, publicly threw his hat into the ring Tuesday, declaring: ''I don't have even the tiniest shortage in terms of experience or knowledge.'' Another Turkish official, Kemal Dervis, a widely respected former economy minister, is already seen as a leading candidate for the post.
Finance officials from India, Mexico and South Africa are also being floated.
China, the third largest financial contributor to the I.M.F. after the United States and Japan, has not put forward a candidate of its own. But a ministry spokesman in Beijing said Tuesday that the selection of the next I.M.F. chief needed to be transparent and merit-based.
Experts said the race is wide open.
''Given the severity of the European sovereign debt crisis, there is a case for someone who can bring a good feel for European finance and politics to the job,'' said Charles Dallara, a former U.S. Treasury official who is the managing director of the Washington-based Institute for International Finance. ''On the other hand, this could be the time for a more open process at the I.M.F. looking at candidates from any number of emerging markets.''
The jockying intensified as questions rose over whether Mr. Strauss-Kahn would formally resign from the I.M.F., where staff members are stupefied by his arrest and worried about the impact on the fund's credibility. On Tuesday, Austria's finance minister, Maria Fekter, said Mr. Strauss-Kahn should consider stepping down to avoid further damaging the I.M.F.
Even if Mr. Strauss-Kahn were eventually released on bail, he would almost certainly not be able to leave the state of New York. That would make it impossible for him to fulfull his international obligations as well as requirements that he chair meetings of the I.M.F. executive board in Washington three times a week.
''You can't run things from Rikers Island,'' said one I.M.F. official, who spoke anonymously, citing the sensitivity of the situation.
Senior European officials, led by German Chancellor Angela Merkel, are arguing that only another European can manage the fractured politics and tricky calculus of Europe's bailouts, especially if a renewed crisis in Greece richochets to other troubled countries. The I.M.F. is overseeing about 100 billion in loans it made to Greece, Ireland and Portugal, and is the principal architect of austerity programs aimed at straightened out the countries' finances.
As it became clear that legal proceedings would keep Mr. Strauss-Kahn in New York for the foreseeable future, Gordon Brown, Britain's former prime minister and also chancellor of the exchequer in the Labour government for many years, lost no time renewing his bid, which seemed to have deflated after Prime Minister David Cameron last month threatened to block it.
''Gordon is as keen as ever to put himself forward,'' said a former aide, who was not authorized to speak publicly on the matter. ''He's moving up a gear and wants to be considered.''
But last week, George Osbourne, the current British chancellor, also declined to back him. Without the government's support, Mr. Brown would have to get an I.M.F. executive board member from another country to nominate him, a strategy that would leave him in a weak position.
In Germany, where recent efforts to promote a German as the next chief of the European Central Bank were scuttled, newspapers floated the names Tuesday of a couple dark horse candidates, including Josef Ackermann, the Deutsche Bank chief executive, and Thomas Mirow, a German politician who heads the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
But Mr. Ackermann is Swiss and, as a long-time banker, lacks public service experience, while Mr. Mirow would not be nearly the power-broker that Mr. Strauss Kahn proved to be in tough negotiations during the financial crisis.
Even as France tries to pick up the pieces from the fallout over Mr. Strauss-Kahn, one of the most credible potential candidates being floated for the post is another French official, the popular finance minister, Christine Lagarde. Fluent in English, Ms. Lagarde is a savvy politician who played a leading role in handling the European debt crisis. She cuts a high-profile figure internationally and is respected by policymakers in both Western economies and emerging markets.
But Ms. Lagarde is facing a possible inquiry into her alleged role in awarding outsized financial compensation to a flamboyant French businessman, Bernard Tapie, in 2007. A French prosecutor recently asked the court of justice to investigate ''abuse of authority'' after Ms. Lagarde ordered a special panel of judges to intervene in a legal dispute between Mr. Tapie and a bank, Credit Lyonnais, that produced a large financial compensation for Mr. Tapie.
The last thing the I.M.F. needs is more controversy. Morale has been hit across the board by Mr. Strauss-Kahn's arrest, said an IMF staff member who spoke only on condition of anonymity. People certainly feel let down, he said, but there is an even stronger impression that the institution itself has been shamed.
Prior to the denial of bail for Mr. Strauss-Kahn on Monday, some staff members held out hope that he might be freed and soon cleared, and that the situation could be turned around. But after he was taken back to prison to await his next hearing Friday, reality came crashing in, insiders said.
''The mood is more pessimistic than before the decision,'' one official said. Now there is the realization that the outcome might not be as positive as hoped. ''At that point, the board will have to look realistically about how to move forward,'' the official said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mehmet Simsek, Turkey's finance minister, has announced his candidacy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MURAD SEZER/REUTERS) (B1)
Kemal Dervis, left, a former economy minister of Turkey, is a leading candidate for managing director of the I.M.F. Gordon Brown, Britain's former prime minister, is also seeking the job. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CZAREK SOKOLOWSKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 CHRIS RATCLIFFE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); EURO CRISIS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ARRESTS (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (69%); LOBBYING (69%); SEX OFFENSES (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); WORLD WAR II (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (90%); GORDON BROWN (59%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (68%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



582 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: After New York Arrest, French Political Maneuvering Begins

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and KATRIN BENNHOLD; Maia de la Baume and Scott Sayare contributed reporting.

 BODY:
PARIS -- With its presumptive presidential candidate in a New York jail awaiting resolution of sexual assault charges, including attempted rape, the Socialist Party moved on Tuesday to try to reassure its troops, while President Nicolas Sarkozy was reported to have told his party's legislators that the arrest of Dominique Strauss-Kahn was a disaster for the Socialists, who had lost ''the moral part of the battle for the presidency.''
France's political world began maneuvering in earnest on Tuesday.
Martine Aubry, the Socialist leader, told her party leadership on Tuesday that it must pull together, look beyond the trauma of the scandal and focus on the presidency. 
''Unity, responsibility, combativeness -- these are the three words which came up the most this morning,'' Ms. Aubry said afterward. ''There was emotion, of course, and the shock we all feel, but it is our responsibility to be up to the task.''
It is necessary to ''wait for the facts'' and Mr. Strauss-Kahn's version of events in a Manhattan hotel suite, she said, but also to ''respect the young woman'' who accused him of attempted rape and other sexual charges.
Her comments captured the Socialist dilemma: their most prominent candidate and hope of winning the presidency is suddenly out of the race, accused of maltreating an immigrant working-class woman and tarnished by perceptions of a lavish lifestyle.
The party struggled to set itself apart. ''It's not the Socialist Party that's in the dock,'' said the party's spokesman, Benoit Hamon. But a number of commentators noted that the accusations against Mr. Strauss-Kahn pointed not only to elitism in the Socialist Party -- the ''caviar left'' -- but also to what they termed clubby corruption and even immorality.
When added to widespread criticism of Mr. Sarkozy for enjoying luxury and rich friends from business and the entertainment industry too much, there is a growing sense that the elite of both parties have been sullied, which may help the angry critique of French politics personified by the far-right candidate of the National Front, Marine Le Pen.
The deep unpopularity of Mr. Sarkozy -- he had barely a 30 percent approval rating before these events -- has not resulted in a surge of popularity for the Socialists, but rather a rise in the polls for Ms. Le Pen and her party. Even before Mr. Strauss-Kahn's arrest, she was already seen as a real possibility to beat one of the other main parties into third place and make the presidential second-round runoff a year from now.
Ms. Le Pen is trying to move the party more into the mainstream, de-emphasizing racism and anti-Semitism -- banning the Nazi salute at meetings, for example -- and concentrating on more populist issues like unemployment, immigration, globalization and a loss of sovereignty to the European Union and the euro.
Ms. Le Pen has also been the most critical of Mr. Strauss-Kahn and, in a way, the most openly feminist. ''I am utterly unsurprised,'' she said on Sunday, as news of the arrest broke in France. ''He must be presumed innocent -- but everyone in the Paris political village knew of Dominique Strauss-Kahn's pathological relations with women.''
Frederic Sawicki, a political scientist at the Sorbonne, said the embarrassment of the Socialists and the caution of Mr. Sarkozy's party ''leaves a large space for Marine Le Pen to dress herself as the defender of women against macho men.''
A generalized disgust and disappointment with traditional political leaders will only grow with the arrest of Mr. Strauss-Kahn, analysts said. ''The only thing that looks clear today is that the extreme right, anti-elite movement, those who are always emphasizing how corrupt the elites are, will benefit from this,'' said Dominique Moisi, a senior fellow at the French Institute of International Relations. ''Now they can say the elites are not only corrupt; they are also depraved.''
As a woman, Ms. Le Pen is better placed to exploit the scandal, Mr. Moisi said. ''There is clearly within France a gender divide on this affair: French women say, 'Let the American justice system do its work,' while the men say, 'How can they parade them in handcuffs like that?' ''
Mr. Sawicki said the events had upended everyone's political calculus, especially among the Socialists, where Mr. Strauss-Kahn, a centrist with an international reputation, was less popular among the left of his own party but better able to pick up votes from the center and even from disaffected Sarkozy supporters on the center right.
The main beneficiary among the Socialists is Francois Hollande, 56, a former party leader who is a member of Parliament and president of the political region called Correze. Mr. Hollande was the longtime partner of the last Socialist nominee, Segolene Royal, with whom he has four children. Ms. Royal lost to Mr. Sarkozy in 2007, but will run again for the Socialist nomination.
Mr. Hollande is well liked, if a little dull, competent, centrist and unshowy. He threw his hat into the ring against Mr. Strauss-Kahn early, and he is more popular among voters than Ms. Aubry, who is considered to be on the left wing of the party and probably too doctrinaire to win a national vote.
But he does not do as well in the polls against Mr. Sarkozy as Mr. Strauss-Kahn did, and it is possible that other candidates -- from the Greens, the Communists and the center -- will divide the center-left vote enough to drive the Socialists into third place in the first round.
But at this point, with opinions among the electorate still up for grabs, Ms. Le Pen or Mr. Sarkozy could run third, too. They are nearly tied for now in opinion polls, given margins of error. Jean-Francois Kahn, an analyst and former editor of the left-wing magazine Marianne who is not related to Mr. Strauss-Kahn, said, ''I am among the rare people who think Sarkozy could be re-elected, because the National Front could get into the second round,'' beating the Socialists. Mr. Hollande would be the best Socialist candidate, he said -- ''a man of the open left, not sectarian.'' Mr. Hollande is ''rural and urban at the same time,'' and ''there is no angle of attack against him.''
So there is much to play for, which Mr. Sarkozy told his legislators Tuesday morning, in remarks reported by Le Monde. He gave them the road map for the next year: ''hard work, calm, unity and dignity,'' he said, repeating the word ''dignity.''
He said that 2011 was an important year, in which the economy would continue to recover and grow, he would refuse to raise taxes, continue to preside over the Group of 8 and Group of 20, and help lead the way for a new future for the Arab countries of North Africa.
''The only good thing to do,'' said Bruno Le Maire, the minister of agriculture, ''is to shut up and do our work.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE SOCIALIST LEADER: Martine Aubry, Tuesday in Paris, told party leaders they must pull together. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENOIT TESSIER/REUTERS)
FAR-RIGHT CHIEF: Marine Le Pen, in Tours in January, has criticized Dominique Strauss-Kahn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANE MAHE/REUTERS)
 THE PRESIDENT: Nicolas Sarkozy reportedly said that the arrest was a disaster for the Socialists. (POOL PHOTO BY LIONEL BONAVENTURE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEXUAL ASSAULT (92%); SEX OFFENSES (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); WOMEN (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); RACE & RACISM (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (61%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (90%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



583 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Pakistanis Exchange Fire With NATO Helicopters

BYLINE: By SALMAN MASOOD and ERIC SCHMITT; Salman Masood reported from Islamabad, and Eric Schmitt from Washington.

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- Pakistani soldiers exchanged fire with two NATO helicopters that crossed into Pakistan's airspace from Afghanistan early Tuesday, the Pakistani Army said, as United States senators increased calls in Washington to suspend or put conditions on billions of dollars in American aid to Pakistan.
The firefight, in which Pakistan said two of its soldiers were wounded, was the latest episode in a rapidly deteriorating relationship between the United States and Pakistan after the Navy Seal raid that killed Osama bin Laden on May 2. 
That Bin Laden was discovered at a compound not far from the capital has heightened American distrust of Pakistan, while the raid inflamed Pakistani sensitivities over sovereignty.
Since then, the Obama administration and its allies in Congress have scrambled to keep tensions from spinning out of control and provoking Pakistan to shut down transit routes into Afghanistan that supply United States troops there.
Those tensions were laid bare on Capitol Hill on Tuesday as Democrats and Republicans voiced anger and bewilderment at providing $3 billion a year in aid to Pakistan, only to have that nation's leaders criticize the United States for violating Pakistan's sovereignty during the raid on Bin Laden's house in Abbottabad, a small city about 75 miles by road from the capital that is home to a major military academy.
''Americans are getting tired of it, as far as shoveling money in there to people who just flat don't like us,'' Senator Jim Risch, Republican of Idaho, said at a Foreign Relations Committee hearing to review Pakistan policy.
The committee's chairman, John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, fresh off the plane from a 24-hour visit to Islamabad to meet with senior Pakistani leaders, including President Asif Ali Zardari and Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, the army chief of staff, reported on his efforts to smooth ties, including an agreement to return to the United States the tail of an American helicopter damaged in the raid.
But many senators were not in a conciliatory mood. Senator Chris Coons, a Delaware Democrat, complained that Pakistan was playing a ''double game'' by accepting American aid and fighting terrorists that threatened Pakistani government targets, but also supporting proxy forces in Afghanistan that killed American troops. ''They are both a fireman and arsonist in this regional ongoing conflagration,'' he said.
Senator Bob Corker, a Tennessee Republican, said it was time for Congress to put conditions on the military and economic aid, doling out assistance only if Pakistan met certain benchmarks in combating militants. ''Most of us are wanting to call time out on aid until we can ascertain what is in our best interest,'' he said.
Separately, five Senate Democrats, including Dianne Feinstein of California, chairwoman of the Intelligence Committee, sent a letter to Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton on Tuesday urging them to re-evaluate security aid to Pakistan.
Despite the anger on both sides, the Americans would like to maintain Pakistani cooperation as they try to wind down the war in Afghanistan, and Pakistan would like to keep aid flowing from the United States, which has amounted to more than $20 billion in the past decade.
When asked at Tuesday's hearing about the impact of suspending aid to Pakistan, Gen. James L. Jones, President Obama's former national security adviser, warned, ''I would counsel against what might be a very tempting thing to do, but it might have long-term consequences that we would then have to deal with.''
American officials fear the exchange of fire on Tuesday will provide yet another irritant for both sides. NATO officials could not immediately confirm whether the helicopters had indeed entered Pakistan's airspace, but said they were looking into the episode, which took place at Admi Kot Post in the North Waziristan tribal region of Pakistan.
An American military official said the Pakistanis were injured by a rock slide, not gunfire.
Pakistani military officials said the NATO helicopters came about 400 yards into Pakistani territory. The Pakistani Army ''lodged a strong protest and demanded a flag meeting,'' it said in a statement, referring to a meeting between officials from Pakistan and NATO on the border.
Last September, Pakistan shut down the land route through Pakistan that NATO uses to supply its forces in Afghanistan for more than a week after two Pakistani paramilitary soldiers were killed in a similar border clash.
However galling the current clash may be to Pakistani military officials, it was not clear that they would take similar action this time, as both sides may also be seeking to pull relations back from the brink.
The administration's special envoy to the region, Marc Grossman, who only recently returned from Pakistan, is expected to arrive in Islamabad later this week along with Michael Morell, the deputy director of the Central Intelligence Agency, in an effort to repair the badly strained relationship. They will be seeking to revive joint intelligence operations and increase the number of American military trainers, American officials said. Depending on the outcome of their meetings, Mrs. Clinton may also visit Pakistan.
The clash on the border came as Pakistan's prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, traveled to Beijing. Analysts said that visit was meant to signal to the United States that Pakistan saw China as an alternative source of security and economic aid.
In a possible sign that cooperation had not collapsed completely, the Pakistani Army announced on Tuesday that a senior operative of Al Qaeda, Muhammad Ali Qasim Yaqub, also known as Abu Sohaib al-Makki, had been arrested by Pakistani security agencies in the southern port city of Karachi. A Pakistani intelligence official said in Karachi Tuesday night that the Ali Qasim was arrested in the Gulshen-i-Iqbal area of the city on May 4 or May 5, just two days after the American raid that killed bin Laden in the city of Abbottabad.
In another development, about 100 militants attacked a security checkpoint near the city of Peshawar early on Wednesday. The police said the three-hour clash killed two police officers and 15 insurgents, The Associated Press reported.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (90%); HELICOPTERS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (79%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); AL-QAEDA (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (73%); ARSON (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); US NAVY (57%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (87%); JOHN KERRY (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (59%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (57%); CHRIS COONS (57%); JIM RISCH (57%); BOB CORKER (57%); ROBERT M GATES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



584 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Nicholas D. Kristof)

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: When It Comes to Helping Others: Just Do It

BYLINE: RYE BARCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Guest blogger Rye Barcott addresses how young people can make a difference in the world.

 BODY:
It's graduation season, and for the past two months I've been traveling to campuses in the United States on a book tour to talk about service in the Marines and social entrepreneurship in Africa. One point seems to resonate with students above all of the others. From a commuter college in the plains of Indiana to Stanford and MIT, students have been latching onto one simple sentence: be a doer.
I use this line to emphasize the larger point that you don't have to wait to make an impact. You don't have to wait for wealth, status, or age. This is true more so today than perhaps ever before. 
Even during a recession, opportunities abound for young Americans to make a difference in the world. Travel is far more accessible for many, and our attitudes have changed. We think more globally. As technology gives voice to individuals without established power, youth are gaining more respect as a collective. Our networks are becoming broader as we harness powerful new tools to mobilize resources and people. 
Of course, new tools also bring new barriers. Although it's easier to reach people, people are also overloaded with information. It's harder to be heard because there are so many messages cluttering our lives. As we hear more voices, we listen less. Our technology encourages us to exchange depth for breadth. 
When I was in graduate school two years ago my classmates and I spoke about FOMO, "fear of missing out." This is a bizarre condition, and for many of us, it has continued post graduation. There are so many options we know about today, and it is easy to feel anxiety when simply thinking about what else we could be doing. Meanwhile, as travel becomes more accessible, many of our trips have become shorter. The pressures to do more prevent many of us from doing a few things well. 
I've seen the effects of this first hand on the faces of college students across the country. After one presentation, a student eagerly exclaimed, "I'm a doer and I just want to do something." 
Her statement implies the question: How? How do you make an impact in an environment that is equally empowering and overwhelming?
The answer, I believe, starts with an old-fashioned skill: Listening. Listening enables trust, and trust is the foundation of positive change. We need to slow down and listen more before doing. This was a lesson I learned as the co-founder of a non-governmental organization (ngo) in one of the largest slums in Africa - Kibera, in Nairobi, Kenya - and carried with me to Iraq as a Marine.
Fourteen years ago the Marines gave me an ROTC scholarship to attend college. Assuming I would be involved in peacekeeping missions, I took classes to gain a better understanding of why ethnic violence happened. I studied basic anthropology and Swahili, then travelled one summer to Kibera to conduct research. There I rented a small shack in the community and started listening to young men my age as they spoke about their lives and ambitions. It wasn't long before that I recognized a fundamental truth about the world: talent is universal; opportunity is not. 
Two Kenyans and I later co-founded Carolina For Kibera to combine more opportunity with talent by investing in local leaders. We referred to our approach as "participatory development." It's a concept from anthropology that acknowledges that sustainable change must be driven from within communities. It can't be imposed from the outside. I found this to be true in Kibera, where our organization now engages more than 50,000 people a year, and also in the Marines, where we continue to wrestle with how to build local capacity during counter-insurgencies. 
As broad as our networks become, depth still matters. Change still begins with small groups of committed citizens. For me, those groups took the form of teams of Marines, and two Kenyan doers born into conditions far different from my own. We formed relationships rooted in trust and integrity. But they wouldn't have formed if we didn't know how to listen to each other.
Young Americans are hungry to make an impact, and being a doer can take many forms. For some it may involve public service. For others it may be starting something, or creating something that inspires others. For most it will involve changing already-established organizations and companies from within because doing isn't always simply starting from scratch. It is also sustaining and improving. And across this spectrum of making a difference, one thing is common: Doing well often begins with listening well, and that's a skill we can all work on, regardless of our age. 
Rye Barcott is the author of "It Happened on the Way to War: A Marine's Path to Peace." The book was released this spring in conjunction with the 10th anniversary for Carolina For Kibera, the NGO that he co-founded while an undergraduate at UNC-Chapel Hill in 2001. He is a TED Fellow and World Economic Forum Young Global Leader.

        
Was Obama a Kenyan Citizen?
        
What Zimbabwe Can Learn From Its Neighbors
        
Your Comments on my Obama Roots Column
        
Your Comments on my Kenya Column
        
Kenya Isn't Rwanda

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); PEACEKEEPING (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (64%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Kenya

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (58%) KENYA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (93%); IRAQ (66%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



585 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: Are Talent Acquisitions a Sign of a New Bubble?

BYLINE: MIGUEL HELFT


HIGHLIGHT: While some startups are getting bought for their talent, many others are toiling away in obscurity.

 BODY:
There's no question that the "bubbly" feeling has returned to Silicon Valley. The signs are everywhere. Lavish parties are back and so are the highly valued start-ups. There's a seeming frenzy over the coming LinkedIn IPO. And now, there's a surge in "talent acquisitions," which I wrote about today.
The article quoted Vaughan Smith, the director of corporate development for Facebook, saying the company will pay between $500,000 and $1 million to "acqhire" an engineer. Mr. Smith also said Facebook will pay a premium over that for the "right people."
The article generated quite a bit of discussion in tech blogs, some of it focused on Mr. Smith's statement. Some concluded that the deals, seen from Facebook's perspective, are "prudent" in light of the company's high valuation and ability to pay in stock.
But even if these acquisitions are a sign of a bubble -- and of the frenzied fight for talent -- the fact remains that getting acquired is not in the cards for everyone. And that seems notably different from the phenomenon of the last bubble, when just about anyone with a pulse had a shot at making a fortune as long as they were at the right place at the right time. Think about anyone who got into Pets.com or Webvan before they went public -- and who got out before they collapsed.
The Valley these days is swarming with a flood of "lean" start-ups made up of a few engineers, which are the main targets of talent acquisitions. And though some may be acquired, or acqhired as some call it, how many really will deliver big paydays for their young founders?
Paul Graham, the head of Y Combinator, the high-profile incubator and investor, answers with some numbers. Of the more than 310 start-ups that have passed through his startup factory, a mere 25 have been sold and about 18 of those were talent acquisitions. he said. That leaves more than 285 that are still toiling away. While some of those are hugely successful -- Airbnb and DropBox, for example -- many are not.
"You cannot get yourself acquired on demand," Mr. Graham said. "You have to do the start-up like you mean it."

        
Bing Taps Facebook Data for Fight With Google
        
Winklevoss Twins Lose, Again
        
Facebook Seeks to Downplay Campaign Against Google
        
Online, an Urge to Be a Part of the Bin Laden News
        
Facebook Hires Duo Behind Daytum, a Personal Data Site

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%) Facebook; talent acquisitions; Internet; Mergers and Finance; Silicon Valley

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%); IPET HOLDINGS INC (54%); GOOGLE INC (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



586 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Off the Dribble)

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 3061 words

HEADLINE: Answers About the N.B.A. Playoffs and More

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Jonathan Abrams and Howard Beck, The Times's N.B.A. writers, respond to questions from readers about the playoffs, the Knicks and why no one plays defense anymore.

 BODY:
Jonathan AbramsHoward BeckThe following are the responses from Jonathan Abrams and Howard Beck, who took questions from readers this week about the N.B.A. playoffs, which head into the conference finals, as well as the Knicks and Nets.
We are no longer accepting questions for this feature.Q.Did a seven-game series against Memphis hurt the Thunder's chances, or will Kevin Durant will his team to the finals? -- Posted by ARG, Brooklyn, N.Y. A.Jonathan Abrams: Well written, ARG! All the hurdles that the Thunder overcame will only help against the Dallas Mavericks, even if it came at the cost of rest. Before this season, Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook had played a total of six playoff games. The Memphis series tested them in almost every way imaginable: an extremely competent opponent, a triple-overtime game, issues of friction between Durant and Westbrook, one of Durant's poorest performances of his career and a win-or-go-home Game 7.
Still, they prevailed in that Game 7 with Durant's 39 points and Westbrook's triple-double. And now, they have something to fall back on if they run into adversity. If Dallas goes on a run, they can remember a moment when they overcame a similar obstacle against Memphis. It's something more tangible than failing to beat the Lakers last season or even this year's first-round series against Denver that proved easier than expected.
When it comes down to it, Dallas would have been the team that benefited more from rest. With a younger team like Oklahoma City, momentum is tough to sustain with a long layoff, and with the games spaced out, fatigue is never a reasonable excuse in the playoffs.
Q.What is more of a factor in the Thunder vs. Mavs series: the Thunder's youth and, some would say, inexperience, or the Mavs' age (especially without Caron Butler) and experience? -- Posted by FGM, St. Andrews, Scotland A.J.A.: The league will be happy to see questions from Europe. The easy answer is that the Mavericks' experience will be invaluable. Not only do Jason Kidd, Dirk Nowitzki and Jason Terry all have N.B.A. finals experiences, but Rick Carlisle has already coached two teams to conference finals. Oklahoma City's Scott Brooks is impressive and was last season's coach of the year, but he and his players are on foreign terrain in a conference finals.
But this isn't easy, and the flip side is that Nowitzki and Terry participated in Dallas's collapse against Miami in the 2006 finals, and Carlisle lost both times he went to the conference finals. So what does experience really mean if you have not come through in the most clutch moments?
I don't think experience will decide the series. As a preview, the seventh game of the Memphis-Dallas series was wildly interesting. It was the first time that Durant and Westbrook were thrown into the pressure cooker of a win-or-go-home predicament, and they both responded with masterful efforts.Q.I've seen rumors of the Knicks being interested in bringing back restricted free agent Wilson Chandler. As a fan, I'd love to see him back, and I think he would compliment the current lineup well, especially when STAT (Amar'e Stoudemire) plays center and also as a general bench boost. Plus, you've got to love a player who gets game-winning blocks. But is this at all realistic or salary-cap feasible? Would the Knicks have to exceed the cap to get him? Or is this discussion not even relevant until the labor dispute issues are settled? What is the status of current free agents? Do they have to wait until a new C.B.A. is agreed on before they can sign with a team? -- Posted by Lecram, Staten Island, N.Y. A.Howard Beck: Wow, that's a lot of questions! But all good ones, especially those dealing with the new labor deal. Because, really, no one can say where anyone is going until we know what the new system looks like. Here is what we do know: The Knicks would love to have Chandler back (and probably Danilo Gallinari and Raymond Felton, too, but we won't go there today). It probably isn't realistic, because the Knicks will almost certainly be over the salary cap, and Chandler will demand much more than the midlevel exception (currently $5.8 million). Indeed, the midlevel exception -- and all other cap exceptions -- could be eliminated in a new labor deal, further hindering the Knicks' ability to sign impact players. Chandler was having a breakout season before the trade to Denver. Although he struggled with the Nuggets, he still tied his career high in scoring (15.3 points per game) and set career highs in rebounding (5.7 per game) and 3-point accuracy (.350). Some team will make him a very nice offer, most likely one that the Knicks cannot match. But to your last point, all free-agent discussions are highly hypothetical until a new collective bargaining agreement is adopted. Free agency will not even start until the deal is in place.Q.My question involves not these playoffs but a bygone one. Back in the early 1950s ('53 or '54), the Knicks were in the playoffs. These were the days when Syracuse and Rochester still had teams in the N.B.A. I seem to recall that one of the Knicks' players was injured, and they picked up someone from the New York schoolyards. Can this be confirmed, or is it just another urban legend? -- Posted by Lendee32, Woodland Hills, Calif. A.J.A.: Lendee, we got some help on this one from our colleague Jim Luttrell, who in turn got some help from the esteemed George Vecsey. Here's what they came up with: It's not quite urban legend, but there is a bit of historical license at work. Jerry Fleishman, a 6-2 guard/forward, was added to the Knicks' 1953 playoff roster "with N.B.A. approval," according to the team's media guide because of a "manpower shortage." Fleishman, an N.Y.U. product, might've been a great schoolyard player, but he also spent five seasons in the N.B.A. before joining the Knicks for two playoff games. (He totaled 10 points, 5 rebounds and 7 assists.) Fleishman was a rookie with the Philadelphia Warriors in 1946 and played with them until being released after playing 33 games of the 1952-53 season. So he was unemployed when the Knicks picked him up, but it's a stretch to say he was plucked from the N.Y.C. schoolyards.Q.How big a hit will Lebron's legacy take if they fall to Chicago? -- Posted by Ben Sin, Hong Kong A.H.B.: LeBron is 26. I'm not sure we should be having legacy discussions yet. His move to Miami was controversial, and expectations are justifiably high because he is playing with Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh. But it is extremely rare for a team built in a single summer to win the title the next year (the 2007-8 Boston Celtics being the exception). Miami's roster has some serious holes, and a huge drop-off in talent after the three stars. The Heat might need another summer to plug the gaps. So I don't think failing to win a title in Year 1 is any sort of indictment of LeBron, or anyone else in Miami. By the way, Michael Jordan did not win his first championship until his seventh season. He was 28.Q.Why don't N.B.A. players play better defense? How is it possible for so many shooters to spot up behind the 3-point line and take uncontested shots? -- Posted by Zeppo, Portland, Ore. A.J.A.: Now, especially in the playoffs, there is defense to be loved, if that's your sort of thing, Zeppo. The Chicago Bulls usually play defense like they are tied on a string. And the recently ousted Grizzlies lived and prospered in passing lanes. In the regular season, though, some games can disintegrate into layup lines, and defense seems like an optional choice. That is when the debate over effort and how much is given by defenders is appropriate. By this time of year, those teams and players are eliminated.
But to answer your question: a few years ago, in order to increase scoring and clean up the game, the N.B.A. created rules that made it easier for guards to navigate the lane. That created a generation of powerful young point guards - from Russell Westbrook and Derrick Rose, to players who may not be legitimate N.B.A. players if hand-checking by defenders were still around, like Aaron Brooks. With swift guards able to penetrate, other defenders have to help off of their men in order to prevent layups. That is where defenses are most vulnerable. N.B.A. players are skilled at finding mismatches and taking advantage. Once the point guard - usually the best passer - finds himself double-teamed, he can kick the ball out, and in a pass or two, the ball will find the player who is open on the perimeter because the defense had to collapse into the paint. The choice is for the defense to give up either a layup or 3-pointer. Most times, they would opt for the lower-percentage 3-pointer. The best defensive teams, like the Bulls, are able to rotate their defenses better and reduce the time that they are vulnerable.Q.Hey Guys. Simple question: As Knick fans, are we now in "wait until the summer of 2012 mode" or "wait until the trade deadline" mode? Are we looking at Melo, Amare, Billups and lots of players who don't even crack the rotations of good teams in the N.B.A.? Does the combination of no high draft pick, salary cap issues, and a looming lockout doom us to being a .500 team for the foreseeable future? -- Posted by Dan, Vermont A.H.B.: Well, Dan, not that simple. And that was at least three questions. But at a glance, I would say, Probably (waiting until 2012), Maybe (waiting until the trade deadline), Yes (poor roster) and Probably Not (doomed to .500). The fact is, the Knicks have no cap room this summer and no assets to trade since they spent everything in the Carmelo Anthony deal. Depending on the new labor deal (a disclaimer that should be attached to every sentence), the Knicks very likely will have little room to maneuver until 2012, when they should be under the cap again. That said, they do have two of the top 20 players in the game in Anthony and Amar'e Stoudemire, and a still-solid (if old) point guard in Chauncey Billups. With a training camp together and a full season, they should be substantially better than .500. But they will not be contenders without major upgrades at center, shooting guard and the bench.Q.1. James Harden -- he seems to be playing great in these payoffs, but he comes off the bench. I know that having a potent force on the bench can be important (Ricky Pierce, The Microwave, Lamar Odom with the Lakers, etc.), but why is Thabo Sefolosha starting over him? Or is it that playing against teams' second units enables Harden to be more effective?
2. Also OKC related: why does Nate Robinson not get any time with them? You want to talk about getting a boost from your bench, there's a guy who can score in bunches.
3. Do you think Udonis Haslem will be able to come back and contribute for the Heat? Also, how much of a shame is it that Caron Butler won't make it back for the playoffs, right? -- Posted by Joseph, Brooklyn, N.Y. A.J.A.: Couldn't ask just one, Joseph? Trying to make us earn our pay? With Harden, you answered the question well. First, teams like to present their best defensive units at the start of games (without, of course, sacrificing too much offense). Sefolosha is a better defensive player than Harden, which is good because it's about all he does. It is nice to see Harden doing well in the playoffs because he has a nice all-around game. With the second unit, he can look for his shot more when Kevin Durant and/or Russell Westbrook are receiving a breather. One thing to keep in mind, I know we're trained from 5 years old to think it matters deeply who starts, and to a large extent, N.B.A. players share that mentality. But in my mind, what matters more is who is on the court when the game ends. In most games, for the Lakers, it was Odom. For Oklahoma City, Sefolosha played 15 minutes in Game 7. Harden played 31 minutes. So don't hold it against Sefolosha if he gets a couple minutes out there at the start of games.
On to the familiar Nate Robinson, one of the few Knicks alumni still in the playoffs. Above almost anything else, Thunder General Manager Sam Presti preaches team chemistry. With Robinson, if you recall his Knick days, you never know what you're going to get. He can either be the player that he was in last year's finals with a dynamic game for Boston or he can be the player that Mike D'Antoni became so fed up with that he benched for 14 games. Even if Scott Brooks wanted to play Robinson, who would he take minutes from among the guards? Not Westbrook. And not his backup, Eric Maynor, who is more than serviceable. And you are already mad that Sefolosha is taking minutes away from Harden. In the postseason, rotations tighten. And let's be honest. The Thunder made that trade with Boston for Kendrick Perkins and Kendrick Perkins only. Robinson was, and remains, an insurance policy.
Lastly, the longer the Heat plays, the better the odds are that Haslem returns as a serviceable player. Miami obviously needs a player like Haslem to contend with Taj Gibson and Joakim Noah. But this Haslem will not cut it. It is tough to ask a player to come back in the playoffs after missing nearly the whole season. We've seen the James-Bosh-Wade trio go through their hardships, despite having an entire season of playing with one another. For Dallas and Caron Butler, it is a hard injury to cope with, but to their credit, the Mavericks have not made any excuses.Q.Is there really an N.B.A. team with the name Oklahoma City Thunder? That sounds like some regional soccer team or minor league AA baseball team! -- Posted by Leonard, New YorkA.J.A.: Leonard, I'm sure there are many people from Oklahoma City, who -- like me -- can say they were not alive the last time the Knicks won a championship. In all honesty, Oklahoma City, with its college-like atmosphere, is one of the best places to watch an N.B.A. game. If you have the chance to witness it, you won't be referring to the Thunder as a "regional soccer team."Q.Prospects for Knicks vs. Nets next season ... 3 ... 2 ... 1 ... GO! -- Posted by Joseph, Brooklyn, N.Y. A.H.B.: That depends on a) the new labor deal, b) the draft, c) free agency and d) any unforeseen trades that are made between now and November. In other words, I'll get back to you after the lockout is over.Q.Do you think the media and basketball poobahs will ever stop hating on the Heat? I root for the Heat now because of that media bias-- I would like to see LeBron & Co. make them all eat crow. And I have always found the bias in favor of media-teams like L.A. and N.Y. annoying, too, by the way. -- Posted by A T W, Atlanta A.J.A.: Since sarcasm doesn't translate well in messages, I wanted to make sure you were complimenting basketball reporters. Did you know that Poobah is a character in Gilbert and Sullivan's "The Mikado" bearing the title Lord-High-Everything-Else.
That said, all Miami has to do to turn all the criticism into compliments is win. We poobahs are fickle like that.Q.If Chicago outcoaches Miami -- which appeared to be the case with Game 1 -- will that signal the end for Heat Coach Erik Spoelstra? -- Posted by Odehyah, Brooklyn, N.Y. A.H.B.: I'm not sure we can talk about anyone being outcoached after a single game in a seven-game series. And as I've pointed out previously, Miami has some holes in the roster that are now being exposed. I'm not sure it makes sense to fire anyone after one year with this group. But if the Heat loses the series, I have no doubt it will be an issue.Q.It seems like Dallas has put together a championship team whose time has come: Strong at every position, deep, good chemistry with no really bad apples, a good mix of old pros and younger talent. Doesn't it look like all the pieces are in place for them? -- Posted by Mackaroo, Charlottesville, Va. A.H.B.: The Mavericks are almost overdue to win it all. They've won at least 50 games in 11 straight seasons, which is incredible -- especially when you consider how strong the Western Conference has been over the last decade. The Mavericks have been the victim of the Spurs' and Lakers' dominance. Dirk Nowitzki is one of the greatest players in history, and an underappreciated star. He has rarely had elite talent around him, especially since the Mavericks let Steve Nash walk away. I do think they have a nice blend of talent and toughness now. I expect to see them in the finals.Q.Hi Jonathan, I think I am one of the few Knicks fans who are weary about giving Chris Paul a max contract next summer. I understand it is hard to speculate on next summer with the current C.B.A. expiring, but assuming there is a new agreement and there is no mid-level exception, the Knicks would be at the cap with Amar'e Stoudemire, Carmelo Anthony and Paul, and would be able to sign players only for the minimum. I would much rather spend the money on getting a rebounding/shot blocking center (DeAndre Jordan/Marc Gasol/Tyson Chandler) and finding solid guard who can defend (Delonte West/Arron Afflalo). I know it is tough to pass on a talent like Paul, but do you think it is wise for the Knicks to use up the rest of their cap space on him? -- Posted by Matt Barbarasch, New York A.J.A.: It is really too early to speculate about next summer, especially with the uncertainty of the expiring labor agreement and with the Hornets already trying to talk Paul into an extension. When the C.B.A. is settled, it will probably be radically different than what our debate is now based on. That said, with your guidelines and provided everything is equal, I think it's the same concerns and dilemma that the Knicks confronted when landing Anthony. Parting with Raymond Felton, Wilson Chandler, Danilo Gallinari and Timofey Mozgov in acquiring Anthony stripped the Knicks of the core of a team that had surprised many. I do think that if you build around Anthony and Amar'e with the caliber of player you mentioned, it will have the chance to advance far in the playoffs. But Paul is a franchise player at the point guard position who can dictate tempo and feed Stoudemire and Anthony. If the chance is presented to the Knicks, they would probably jump at it. Miami is currently providing the blueprint on whether or not it is the direction to go.

        
Prokhorov as Ivan Drago
        
Boone Plots Different Path Back to N.B.A.
        
Ask Questions About the N.B.A. Playoffs
        
West Provides Game 7 Drama
        
New Series Pits James Against an Old Foe

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); WRITERS (75%); SPORTS AWARDS (74%) Basketball; N.B.A. playoffs; New Jersey Nets; New York Knicks

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (91%); NEW JERSEY NETS (84%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (68%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (88%); SCOTLAND (79%); EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



587 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1821 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter.

 BODY:
Oaktree Plans Initial Public Offering | Oaktree Capital Management, the firm founded by Howard Marks and Bruce Karsh, is the latest private firm to decide to become publicly traded.
Oaktree, which manages about $82 billion, mostly in fixed-income strategies, is expected to transfer its shares from a private exchange to the N.Y.S.E., according to a person familiar with the planned move who requested anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss it.
The listing will provide Oaktree with a more active trading market in its stock, broaden the ownership of the firm to retail investors and, ultimately, give its founders a means to cash out their stakes.DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
How Do You Say Click-Through Rate in Spanish? | Fresh off selling her Web site to AOL, Arianna Huffington has accepted a seat on the board of directors at El Pais, Spain's most important daily newspaper.PRESS RELEASE | EL PAIS (SPANISH) 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Shire Buys Biotech Company for $750 Million | Advanced BioHealing, one of the few companies selling a product made of living cells, had planned to go public.DealBook 
Takeda Is Said to Be Ready to Announce $12 Billion Nycomed Deal | Takeda Pharmaceutical, Japan's largest drug maker, is said to be ready to announce the 1 trillion yen ($12 billion) purchase of Nycomed of Switzerland on Wednesday, the Japanese business daily Nikkei reported. Takeda issued a statement saying it had reached no such deal.REUTERS | PRESS RELEASE 
The Difficulties of Doing Deals in Russia | Preferans, the national card game of Russia, is complex both in how it is played and how it is scored. Likewise, business in the country is never straightforward, The Telegraph writes, elaborating on the difficulties that BP experienced in its recently abandoned venture with Rosneft.TELEGRAPH 
AMEC to Acquire U.S. Engineering Firm | Hoping to bolster its presence in North America, the British oil services group AMEC has agreed to purchase the American engineering company Mactec for $280 million, Reuters reports.REUTERS | PRESS RELEASE 
Amid Merger Mania, Swiss Exchange Wants to Stay Indepent | The SIX Group, the company that runs the Swiss exchange, plans to remain separate and independent despite a global wave of consolidation attempts, a spokesman told the German newspaper Borsen-Zeitung.REUTERS | Borsen-Zeitung
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Top Investment Banks See Revenues Fall | Mideast upheaval, a spate of natural disasters, volatile commodity markets and general economic uncertainty prompted revenue at major banks to fall 5 percent, to $52 billion, last quarter, according to a consultancy report.REUTERS 
UBS Beefs Up Wealth Management | The American wealth management unit of UBS has hired 15 financial advisers in charge of $1.5 billion in assets, which make for $14 million in annual fees, a source told Reuters.REUTERS 
Japanese Banking Group Plans Retail and Corporate Merger | In the wake of a computer failure that interrupted transactions following Japan's devastating earthquake, Mizuho Financial plans to merge its retail and corporate banking arms, sources told Reuters.REUTERS | WALL STREET JOURNAL 
Goldman, You're Not So Smart | The bank's shrinking advantage over its competitors has raised doubts with investors and analysts.REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS 
Barclays Poaches Regional Boss From Deutsche Bank | Barclays has picked up a new regional head for Latin America, Karan Madan, from Deutsche Bank, according to a company memo obtained by Bloomberg News.BLOOMBERG NEWS 
Stressed? Must Be That Time of the Year | Stress tests may soon become a yearly fixture, if the Federal Reserve gets its way. The Fed wants testing of bank capital to be performed more regularly, and the power to veto dividend pay-outs at the lenders that do not pass muster.FINANCIAL TIMES 
Ackermann Set to Testify in Defense of Deutsche Bank | Deutsche Bank's chief executive, Josef Ackermann, is scheduled to testify on Wednesday that the bank did not pressure the former media magnate Leo Kirch to restructure his media group with their help.BLOOMBERG NEWS 
Applications to Work in the City Rise 14% | It's fair to say competition to work in the financial sector is tough. By February, a total of 27,440 applications had already been made by students from top-tier British universities for places in investment banks, according to the student research firm High Fliers. Meanwhile, youth unemployment in the country is approaching a million.EFINANCIAL NEWS | GUARDIAN 
Will the Banks Finally Have to Answer for the Fiscal Crisis? | The New York attorney general should push hard for clarity and justice in the mortgage mess and financial crisis, The New York Times writes in an editorial.New York Times 
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Smaller Ambitions at Terra Firma | Terra Firma will most likely aim lower than deals the size of the ill-fated EMI takeover in the future, a chastened Guy Hands told the Guardian.GUARDIAN 
Morgan Stanley Seeks 1.5 Billion Renminbi for New Fund | Looking for a share of the booming Chinese market, Morgan Stanley is seeking to raise 1.5 billion renminbi ($230 million) for a private equity fund in the country on the heels of similar moves by the Carlyle Group and Blackstone.REUTERS 
Former Tesco Chief to Enter Private Equity | The former chief executive of Tesco, Britain's largest supermarket chain, was named a part-time senior adviser to the American buyout group Clayton Dubilier & Rice.
But are big business names always a blessing for private equity firms? Sir Terry himself admitted that sometimes stars of industry may be little more than window dressing for the business of deal-making.FINANCIAL TIMES | TELEGRAPH | FINANCIAL TIMES 
Boardroom Battle Continues at PEH | A Swiss private equity fund under siege from its own shareholders has refused demands for change because an overhaul would risk pushing the fund into liquidation, Efinancial News reports.EFINANCIAL NEWS | PRESS RELEASE 
Turkish Firm in Talks With K.K.R. and TPG to Raise Cash | Cukurova, based in Istanbul, is in talks with the private equity funds K.K.R. and TPG Capital to sell as much as half of its entertainment and news television channel, Show TV, a person told Bloomberg News.BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS 
For Paulson, Gold Still Glitters | Other hedge fund managers may have retreated from gold, but John A. Paulson is staying the course. And he plans to stay at the helm until age 70.DealBook 
Once Bitten, Zwirn Makes Comeback | Daniel Zwirn, whose $4 billion hedge fund shut down because of huge withdrawals, is aiming for a fresh start with Alda Capital, a publicly traded fund shielded from such redemptions.BLOOMBERG NEWS
Sympathy for Raj, But Not Acquittal | In his bid to avoid conviction, Raj Rajaratnam hired jury consultants to choose the panel that would most likely give the hedge fund manager the benefit of the doubt, the Wall Street Journal reports. But while the jury may have been suited to Mr. Rajaratnam, its decision was not.WALL STREET JOURNAL 
Citi's Mortgage-Credit Opportunity Fund Lifts Bank | Citigroup has been reaping ever greater profit from a hedge fund specialized in wagers on mortgage debt, but its success is imperiled by new regulations, Bloomberg News reports.BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Firms Sell $19 Billion in Bonds Ahead of Fed Cuts | Fears that interest rates will shoot up when the Fed cuts its support for finance markets next month have sent American firms like Johnson & Johnson and Texas Instruments rushing to borrow now, the Wall Street Journal reports.WALL STREET JOURNAL 
Ally Changes I.P.O. Plans, Offering Some Debt as Well | The revised offering indicates that the Treasury Department may shed more of its 73.8 percent stake in Ally Financial than previously expected.DealBook 
Santander Plans $1 Billion Argentine Offering | Banco Santander is looking to raise up to a billion dollars for its Argentine subsidiary, Santander Rio, through a share issue on the local exchange, IFR, a news service of Thomson Reuters, reports.REUTERS (SPANISH) 
Chinese Joint Venture Secures Cornerstone Backing | Four major investors have committed $190 million for MGM China Holdings, the Macau casino firm owned by MGM Resorts International and Pansy Ho, as part of its $1.5 billion initial public offering in Hong Kong.REUTERS 
New Commodity Exchange in Hong Kong | Hong Kong opened a new commodity exchange on Wednesday in a drive to challenge traditional and more well-known markets in Europe and the United States.ASSOCIATED PRESS 
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Buying a Company for Its People | Sometimes you buy a company for its product, and sometimes for its people. Tech companies in Silicon Valley are snapping up start-ups to get their founders and engineers, then jettisoning what they actually make, The New York Times reports.DealBook 
Farmyard Economics | Mark Pincus takes fun very, very seriously, Vanity Fair writes in a profile of the Zynga chief executive. Mr. Pincus is the man behind the leading Facebook games, and one of Silicon Valley's fastest-rising stars.VANITY FAIR 
Morgenthaler Brings Angel on Board | Morgenthaler Ventures performed well in the late 1990s backing enterprise software, but has seen its fortunes dip in the Web 2.0 era. The firm has now brought on board a new partner, Mark Goines. While Mr. Goines is not the most prominent of angel investors, Morgenthaler is hoping he will spur its fortunes.TECHCRUNCH 
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Greece Has Ways to Fix Debt Woes, but All Lead to Misery | The European Union has a number of options to restructure Greece's debt; the trick is to allow the euro to survive and to stem any further collapse of Greece or other at-risk countries.DealBook 
From the Cellars of Bernard L. Madoff | The wine and spirits collection of Mr. Madoff is going up for auction on Wednesday, and is expected to raise up to $21,000.
"We have humbly accepted the opportunity to sell the seized cellar contents of two properties owned by Bernie Madoff on behalf of the United States Marshals office," Morrell & Company Fine Wine Auctions said, calling the bottles "artifacts of history."GUARDIAN | LIVE AUCTION 
Jurors in Insider Trading Trial Asked About Raj Bias | Several jurors told a federal judge overseeing the insider trading trial of three traders that they would not be swayed by the recent conviction of Raj Rajaratnam of the Galleon Group, Reuters reports. REUTERS 
One Day, Renminbi Could Become a Reserve Currency | The Chinese currency will eventually play a major role as one of the world's reserve currencies, although the United States dollar will maintain an important currency, the European Council's president, Herman Van Rompuy, said.REUTERS | SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

        
Morning Take-Out
        
Morning Take-Out

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MERGERS (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (83%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (72%); ENGINEERING (71%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (68%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (67%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (67%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); NATURAL DISASTERS (50%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (50%) Morning Take-Out; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: OAKTREE CAPITAL GROUP LLC (58%); TAKEDA PHARMACEUTICAL CO LTD (55%); OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (53%)

TICKER: OAK (NYSE) (58%); 4502 (TSE) (55%); ROSN (RTS) (53%); ROSN (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (53%)

PERSON: ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SPAIN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



588 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: The Economics of a Vengeful Deity

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: A writer at a the Chronicle of Higher Education blog delves into economic differences and theological differences among religions.

 BODY:
Naomi Schaefer Riley continues the discussion of religion and income at the Chronicle of Higher Education's Brainstorm blog:[A] religion's view of education affect one's education and therefore one's income....
It's not that one religion mandates a college education and another one suggests only high school. Sometimes religious leaders do talk about such issues. But it goes back even further than that. Pentecostals and Jehovah's Witnesses and some other fundamentalist Protestants (not evangelicals generally, mind you) have a more apocalyptic view of the world. That is, they think the end may be coming soon and so planning for the future (through education, savings, etc.) seems less important.
In their book, "America's Four Gods," Paul Froese and Christopher Bader write about the effect that people's view of the divine has on their financial prospects. Americans, in the authors' view, are divided into people who view God as an active or inactive presence and as either a benevolent or vengeful God. People who view God as both active and mean often have lower incomes. It's a little hard to separate the cause and effect here. Do you believe God has it in for you because you have a low income or do you have a low income because you don't believe you have much chance of doing well in this lifetime[?]Two other small points about our chart on religion, education and income:
First, several readers have asked why we did not include Orthodox Jews. Our chart was based on a survey by the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life, and the survey simply did not turn up enough Orthodox Jews for the Pew researchers to be confident in the results for that category.
Second, the original version of our chart contained an error. It incorrectly placed the data point for "Seculars" (a combination of atheists, agnostics and "secular unaffiliated"); 35 percent are college graduates, not 45 percent. Now that the chart has been fixed, Seculars no longer look like a modest outlier, earning somewhat less than their education would predict. They're right in line with most other religions, modestly more educated and affluent than Methodists and modestly less so than Presbyterians.

        
Geography, Income and Religion
        
Faith, Education and Income
        
Economics for the People
        
Do You Earn More Than Your Parents Did?
        
Education Last Century, and Economic Growth Today

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); WRITERS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%) Education; Income; Naomi Schaefer Riley; religion; Religion and Belief

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



589 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Are We Cutting Fat or Bone?

BYLINE: JAY GOLTZ


HIGHLIGHT: When deciding what to cut to trim costs, a framing company rethinks its guarantee that frames will be ready in seven days.

 BODY:
I have spent many years focusing on how to increase revenue in my custom picture-framing business. Much of what we've done has worked, and the business is now roughly 20 times the size of the average framing shop in America. Lately, however, because of the economy, the housing crisis, and other factors, the framing industry has shrunk, and I now spend quite a bit of time looking for cost reductions.
It is a new economy, and many businesses are going through the same drill. All of my managers understand that we should leave no stone unturned as we look for cost savings. The problem, as always, lies in knowing the difference between cutting fat and cutting bone. The holiday card we used to send to all customers at the cost of $20,000? That's fat. I think. The big, expensive holiday party? Half fat. We do it in-house now instead of in a restaurant. And our overtime expenses? Now, that can get complicated. 
From the day I started the business, I have always promised customers a one-week turnaround for their framing. I've been able to do it because I have always kept a large inventory of framing material. This helped distinguish us from others in the market. The typical shop would take three, four, even six weeks to finish a job. My business grew quickly for many years. Why? I believe it was because we have a big selection, we have knowledgeable and competent people, we stand behind everything we do, and we have a one-week turnaround. These have been the sacred cows of Artists' Frame Service.
But the one-week turnaround has never been easy. When a customer drops off art on Monday, it goes into the production cycle on Tuesday. It has to be done by Friday in order to go through quality inspection and be ready to be returned on Monday. That means we really only have Tuesday to Thursday -- three days -- to get the order done. No problem. We've been getting orders done for 33 years with very few exceptions. But this does require some overtime expense because of the uneven work flow. And that's why, during the no-stone-unturned process, my production manager had the nerve to broach the subject with me. "I know the seven-day turnaround has always been important," he said, "but it does create overtime." Good for him. Honest dialogue is another sacred cow. And whenever money is spent, you have to ask yourself, Is this going to lower costs or provide value to the customer?
Thinking it over, it occurred to me that many things have changed since I started the business in 1978. We are now open seven days a week, instead of six, making it easier for customers to pick up orders. We now have a harder time -- even during a recession -- finding competent people to work, especially to work overtime. We are now doing larger orders for businesses and hospitals, and those orders make the work flow deviations even more drastic. Large chains have gotten into framing and their turnaround times are typically more than four weeks. Lastly, we now have e-mail. Perhaps we should go to a 10-day turnaround and e-mail customers when the order is ready. It was the first time in a long time that I had really thought about the way things have changed, all of which had me thinking that maybe a 10-day turnaround would make sense. I decided to raise the issue at my next managers meeting.
I presented the case, and we discussed it with minds open: the cost-savings potential, how things have changed, the proposal to go to 10 days. There were about 10 people in the room, most of whom are not directly involved in the framing business (I have several related businesses). Whether or not we went to 10 days would have no impact on them, so they were objective. One person commented that, these days, people want things faster, not slower. I proposed that we could promise that the order would be done in seven to 10 days. The framing sales manager hated that idea. "We sound wishy washy," she said. "We should just say 10 days."
She also told us that, in anticipation of the meeting, she had done a trial run. On the preceding Saturday, the staff had told all customers that their orders would be ready in 10 days. And no one had complained. Interesting. But the fact that no one complained doesn't necessarily mean that none of them were disappointed. Still, the general consensus was that the time had come to alter one of our sacred cows.
Then came a comment from a different perspective. "You know," said one of the managers, "we advertise great selection, talented staff, and one-week turnaround. The one-week turn around is the only tangible thing we say that other shops can't say." Boom. Knock out punch. I hadn't thought of that. And neither had anyone else. Between the weaker advertising message and the few customers that might be disappointed enough to go somewhere else, it was easy to imagine how the cost savings of eliminating overtime could be undermined.
The one-week turnaround stands. I feel good that we thought about it, and I feel good that the process of including many different points of view continues to give us valuable input. We will save some money somewhere else. Light bulbs. Next week I will tell you how I am going to save more than $20,000 a year in electricity.
Jay Goltz owns five small businesses in Chicago.

        
Learning the Hard Lessons of Groupon
        
Six Shocks of Entrepreneurship
        
 Arming Your Managers 
        
Finding the Nerve to Take an Advertising Risk
        
 Owner Sets Goals for the Company and Himself

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PICTURE FRAME SHOPS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (74%); OVERTIME (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (63%) advertising; customer service; management; retailing; Advertising and Marketing; Customer Relations; Small Business; Thinking Entrepreneur

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



590 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Digging Deeper Into What Caused Job Losses

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Neither payroll-cutting by employers nor weak demand explain fully the job losses brought on by the Great Recession, an economist writes.

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago.
Census Bureau data on employment by pay level cast doubt on credit-crunch and demand-based theories of the recession. One theory is that a credit squeeze left businesses short on funds, and they responded by cutting payroll, their major expense. Indeed, the bank bailouts were rationalized on the grounds that a bailout would help employers maintain their payrolls.
If cutting payroll spending had been the primary motivation of employers, then they should have cut deepest among their most expensive employees. Firing one person making, say, $2,000 a week saves more than firing three people making $600 a week.
It is true that part-time employment, which is typically low-paying, increased significantly during the recession. However, last week I showed Census data suggesting that employment of people making more than $2,000 a week may have been greater in the 12 months after Lehman Brothers failed than it was before, even while employment of people making less than $2,000 a week fell several million. Hiring more high-paid people is not a way to reduce payroll spending.Moreover, payroll spending now exceeds what it was when the recession began, yet employment remains millions lower. Apparently, payroll spending is not enough to bring those jobs back.
Another theory of the recession is that it was caused by a lack of demand - fewer employees were needed because employers were selling less to their customers. The low-demand theory is a good description of a couple of industries, like manufacturing and home construction, but if it described the economy as a whole we would have seen all types of employment cut, not just employment of people making less than $2,000 a week.
Another set of theories say that high-paid employees are replacing low- and middle-income employees. This replacement might come from employers' attempts to cut personnel during the recession, rather than payroll spending. For example, employers might have worried about health insurance and other employment regulation whose costs are proportional to the number of employees they have. In this view, the bank bailout did little to prevent layoffs.
Some of the replacement could come from families, as they react to some new incentives presented during the recession. Unemployment insurance reduces incentives for unemployed people to accept a new job, because, for up to 99 weeks, the insurance pays them for being unemployed. 
Unemployment insurance benefits are capped, so the disincentive is much less for people making $2,000 or more a week than for people making less. Some homeowners with underwater mortgages may react by earning more, while others earn less as they recognize that all their extra earning ultimately ends up with their mortgage lender.
The chart below explores the replacement theories further. 
For each of the 50 states and the District of Columbia, the chart compares the percentage change in the fraction of adults in the state who make $300-1,200 a week (the middle two-thirds of employees are paid in that range) to the percentage change in the fraction making $2,000 or more. 
For example, the fraction of Arizona adults earning $300-1,200 was 10 percent lower from October 2008 to September 2009 than it was in the previous 12 months, and the fraction of Arizona adults earning more than $2,000 a week was 29 percent higher.
The low-demand and payroll-cutting theories say that the two should be positively correlated, because the states with the largest demand reductions (or the employers most motivated to cut payroll spending) would have cut employment across the board. 
But the Census data suggest that they are negatively correlated (the correlation is also negative if the small or "outlier" states shown in the chart are excluded or downweighted according to population).
These patterns of employment by pay level reveal a number of insights that are not visible in the aggregate employment statistics: the credit crunch and lack of demand may have received too much of the blame for the recession's job losses.

        
New Keynesian Economics Misses the Point, for Now
        
Measuring Jobless Families 
        
Look to Europe to Understand Why This U.S. Recovery Is Jobless
        
How Many Jobs Do We Need? 
        
The Seasonal Job Surge: 2010 Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); RECESSION (93%); LAYOFFS (90%); CENSUS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); STATISTICS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); TRENDS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (61%) Casey B. Mulligan; Daily Economist; employment; U.S. health care costs; Unemployment; Unemployment Insurance; Economic Conditions and Trends; Layoffs and Job Reductions

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



591 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: The True Cost of Carbon

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Two economists from The Hamilton Project argue that we spend much more on energy that we think.

 BODY:
Michael Greenstone and Adam Looney, economists at The Hamilton Project, are releasing a new paper Wednesday on the costs of American energy policy. They argue:... our energy choices are based on the visible costs that appear on utility bills and at the gas pump. This system masks the social costs arising from those energy choices, including shorter lives, higher health care expenses, a changing climate, and weakened national security. As a result, we pay unnecessarily high costs for energy.For example, Mr. Greenstone and Mr. Looney estimate that a coal plant must spent 3.2 cents to produce a kilowatt hour of electricity (and consumers then pay slightly more than this). This price appears to be a bargain, the economists write, but the true costs -- once health costs, military costs and the like are taken into account -- are more than twice high: 8.8 cents per kilowatt hour.
The paper calls for four steps that will be familiar to anyone who follows climate policy: a carbon tax or cap-and-trade system; more money for research and development; more efficient regulations; and negotiations with foreign countries over similar steps elsewhere. In the foreseeable future, all these steps all seem to be an enormous long shot. But the climate problem is not going away.
In addition to being the director of the Hamilton Project, Mr. Greenstone is an M.I.T. professor and one of the country's leading environment economists. More from the paper follows:Our primary sources of energy impose significant health costs on our citizens - particularly among infants and the elderly, our most vulnerable. For instance, even though many air pollutants are regulated under the Clean Air Act, fine particle pollution, or "soot," is estimated to still contribute to roughly one out of every twenty premature deaths in the United States (EPA 2010b). Indeed, soot from coal power plants alone is estimated to cause thousands of premature deaths and hundreds of thousands of cases of illness each year....
The social costs associated with using carbon-intensive fuels also include climate change. If carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions continue to rise at the current rate, they are likely to drive temperature changes that have significant environmental and health consequences: rising sea levels, storms that are more frequent and more severe, increased flooding and drought, and other dramatic changes in weather patterns. These changes in turn could result in an increase in water- and insect-borne diseases as well as in the loss of biodiversity and, due to floods or droughts, the loss of human lives and livelihoods....
Finally, there are other economic, political, and national security risks associated with current domestic energy policies. Oil still plays an important role in the American economy: it powers most of our transportation sector and is an important input in many industries. Continuing turmoil in the Middle East has raised the profile of energy security and the geopolitical implications of reliance on oil. In part to protect major oil supplies, the United States has maintained a military presence in the Middle East for more than 50 years. On several occasions, it has become mired in military interventions in part to prevent oil supply disruptions, among other objectives.

        
The Japanese Crisis and World Energy Prices
        
How Close Is Cheap Clean Energy?
        
The Politics of Command and Control
        
Why Is Caracas Latin America's Most Expensive City?
        
The Economic Impact of Climate Change

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENERGY REGULATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); AIR POLLUTION (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (87%); DROUGHT (85%); UTILITY RATES (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); BIODIVERSITY (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); WEATHER (76%); COAL INDUSTRY (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); AIR QUALITY (69%); PARTICULATE MATTER (68%); AIR POLLUTANTS (68%); DEFENSE SPENDING (68%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (67%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (66%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (64%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%) Adam Looney; climate change; Coal; energy; Michael Greenstone; oil; Air Pollution; Environment; Greenhouse Gas Emissions

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



592 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Digging Deeper Into What Caused Job Losses

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Neither payroll-cutting by employers nor weak demand explain fully the job losses brought on by the Great Recession, an economist writes.

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago.
Census Bureau data on employment by pay level cast doubt on credit-crunch and demand-based theories of the recession. One theory is that a credit squeeze left businesses short on funds, and they responded by cutting payroll, their major expense. Indeed, the bank bailouts were rationalized on the grounds that a bailout would help employers maintain their payrolls.
If cutting payroll spending had been the primary motivation of employers, then they should have cut deepest among their most expensive employees. Firing one person making, say, $2,000 a week saves more than firing three people making $600 a week.
It is true that part-time employment, which is typically low-paying, increased significantly during the recession. However, last week I showed Census data suggesting that employment of people making more than $2,000 a week may have been greater in the 12 months after Lehman Brothers failed than it was before, even while employment of people making less than $2,000 a week fell several million. Hiring more high-paid people is not a way to reduce payroll spending.Moreover, payroll spending now exceeds what it was when the recession began, yet employment remains millions lower. Apparently, payroll spending is not enough to bring those jobs back.
Another theory of the recession is that it was caused by a lack of demand - fewer employees were needed because employers were selling less to their customers. The low-demand theory is a good description of a couple of industries, like manufacturing and home construction, but if it described the economy as a whole we would have seen all types of employment cut, not just employment of people making less than $2,000 a week.
Another set of theories say that high-paid employees are replacing low- and middle-income employees. This replacement might come from employers' attempts to cut personnel during the recession, rather than payroll spending. For example, employers might have worried about health insurance and other employment regulation whose costs are proportional to the number of employees they have. In this view, the bank bailout did little to prevent layoffs.
Some of the replacement could come from families, as they react to some new incentives presented during the recession. Unemployment insurance reduces incentives for unemployed people to accept a new job, because, for up to 99 weeks, the insurance pays them for being unemployed. 
Unemployment insurance benefits are capped, so the disincentive is much less for people making $2,000 or more a week than for people making less. Some homeowners with underwater mortgages may react by earning more, while others earn less as they recognize that all their extra earning ultimately ends up with their mortgage lender.
The chart below explores the replacement theories further. 
For each of the 50 states and the District of Columbia, the chart compares the percentage change in the fraction of adults in the state who make $300-1,200 a week (the middle two-thirds of employees are paid in that range) to the percentage change in the fraction making $2,000 or more. 
For example, the fraction of Arizona adults earning $300-1,200 was 10 percent lower from October 2008 to September 2009 than it was in the previous 12 months, and the fraction of Arizona adults earning more than $2,000 a week was 29 percent higher.
The low-demand and payroll-cutting theories say that the two should be positively correlated, because the states with the largest demand reductions (or the employers most motivated to cut payroll spending) would have cut employment across the board. 
But the Census data suggest that they are negatively correlated (the correlation is also negative if the small or "outlier" states shown in the chart are excluded or downweighted according to population).
These patterns of employment by pay level reveal a number of insights that are not visible in the aggregate employment statistics: the credit crunch and lack of demand may have received too much of the blame for the recession's job losses.

        
Do Jobless Benefits Discourage People From Finding Jobs?
        
Want to Cut Your Debt? Work Less. 
        
Summertime Blues for Teenagers
        
Labor Supply Always Matters
        
New Keynesian Economics Misses the Point, for Now

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); RECESSION (93%); LAYOFFS (90%); CENSUS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); STATISTICS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); TRENDS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (61%) Casey B. Mulligan; Daily Economist; employment; U.S. health care costs; Unemployment; Unemployment Insurance; work incentives; Economic Conditions and Trends; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Economix

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011



593 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Extending Credit Card Protections to Small Business Users

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: The Pew Charitable Trusts advise extending credit card protections to small business accounts.

 BODY:
Each month, Americans get more than 10 million business credit card pitches in their home mailboxes. The cards are aimed at small businesses and sole proprietors, but they generally lack the new protections that apply to consumer cards, a new report from the Pew Charitable Trusts says.
That means holders of the cards are subject to a host of potentially harmful terms, like high-interest penalty rates imposed without warning. The Card Act of 2009 banned such practices for cards marketed primarily as consumer accounts, but it doesn't apply to those labeled for "business" use -- even though the holders are individually liable for the account balances, just as "ordinary" consumers are. The impact of higher rates can be significant with a business card because the small business owner usually is responsible for charges on any card linked to the account.
Nick Bourke, director of Pew's Safe Credit Cards Project and the main author of the report, says in a video that Pew "is urging policy makers to extend the protections of the Credit Card Act whenever a credit card account can hold a person individually liable."
The report analyzed disclosure documents from the 12 largest credit card issuers, which control about 85 percent of the small business credit card market.
Some issuers, notably, Bank of America and Capital One, have voluntarily applied some consumer protections from the Card Act to their business cards. Bank of America, for instance, has eliminated over-the-limit fees on its business cards. And both companies have adopted procedures that apply payments first to balances with higher interest rates, like cash advances. Those banks are the exception, however. That means, in general, the Pew report says, "Households that use these products remain vulnerable to potentially harmful practices." 
For instance, 67 percent of business cards charged an over-the-limit fee, typically $39. And an equal percentage applied penalty rates for late payments or over-the-limit spending. The typical penalty rate was 29.4 percent.
Older, more affluent people get a higher percentage of business card pitches. But even households with annual incomes of less than $25,000 -- a level near the federal poverty rate for a family of five -- got a significant volume of solicitations.
The authors of the Pew report recommend that issuers should at least be required to alert applicants that the business cards don't carry the same protections as consumer cards do.
It's likely, Mr. Bourke said in a brief interview, that some individuals end up using "business" cards as their personal plastic, but it's unclear how often that actually happens.
Have you responded to a business credit card solicitation that arrived in your mailbox? Have you encountered any of the penalties associated with them?

        
Getting Credit if Airfares Fall After You Buy
        
Stay-at-Home Moms and the Need for Credit
        
Troubled Employers and Your Company Charge Card
        
Big Changes to American Express's Blue Cash Card
        
Forget Frugality: Focus on Earning More

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (93%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); SOLE PROPRIETORSHIPS (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (72%); POVERTY RATES (71%); FAMILY (69%); POOR POPULATION (68%); AIR FARES (60%) Credit Cards; Personal Finances; Bank of America Corporation; Capital One Financial Corporation; Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; Capital One Financial Corporation|COF|NYSE

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation; Capital One Financial Corporation

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Capital One Financial Corporation; COF; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



594 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Rating Agencies Face Crackdown

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: The Securities and Exchange Commission proposed sweeping new rules on Wednesday to overhaul the rating business.

 BODY:
Securities regulators are out to tame the credit rating agencies, crucial Wall Street players at the center of the financial crisis. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission proposed sweeping new rules on Wednesday to overhaul the rating business - regulations that would force tougher internal controls, potentially curb conflicts of interest and even mandate that the agencies periodically test the competence of their employees.
"These rules are intended to help investors and other users of credit ratings better understand and assess the ratings," Mary L. Schapiro, chairman of the S.E.C., said at a public meeting on Wednesday. "It is a massive proposal," she said of the plan, which spans more than 500 pages. 
The S.E.C.'s five commissioners unanimously agreed to advance the proposals, which are now open for public comment for 60 days. 
The agency's Republican commissioners indicated, however, that they would push for some changes. The proposals "could be life threatening" to small rating agencies," Kathleen L. Casey, a Republican commissioner, said at the public meeting. 
A rating agency, for instance, would have to take on the costs of periodically administering performance exams that would "test its credit analysts on the credit rating procedures and methodologies it uses," according to a summary of the proposal. 
The proposals stem from the Dodd-Frank Act, the financial overhaul law enacted last year. The S.E.C. has already proposed new policies under Dodd-Frank that would strip references to credit ratings from rules that govern securities offerings.
The rating agencies in recent years became a target in Washington, as regulators and lawmakers blamed them for feeding the mortgage bubble by awarding top grades to bonds backed by subprime mortgages. The investments later soured, driving the economy to the brink. 
A Congressional panel that chronicled the crisis called the largest rating agencies - Standard & Poor's, Moody's Investors Service and Fitch Ratings - "essential cogs in the wheel of financial destruction."
The problems, critics say, stem from an inherent conflict of interest plaguing the rating agencies' business model.
Banks and corporations that issue debt must pay the rating agencies to assign their bonds a letter grade. In the lead up to the crisis, the rating agencies had a heavy hand in the mortgage bond business, as they advised big banks how to earn a top triple-A grade. In a quest for profits, the critics say, the agencies compromised the integrity of their ratings. 
The S.E.C.'s proposal intends to mitigate some of those conflicts that have long hurt the industry's reputation. 
The plan would prohibit analysts from issuing a rating if they also marketed their rating agency's products or services. Small rating agencies can apply for an exemption from this rule. 
The proposal also takes aim at the revolving door between the rating agencies and Wall Street firms that seek the grades. 
Under the plan, the rating agencies would have to examine whether their former analysts awarded overly rosy ratings to a firm that later hired that person. In such cases, the rating agencies would have to "promptly determine whether the credit rating must be revised."
Ms. Casey warned that this proposal "threatened to cross the line" into dictating the substance of credit ratings. "I am concerned that this is such a slippery slope," she said. 
Still, the proposals do not go as far as some had expected. 
In the final days of negotiations over Dodd-Frank, lawmakers stopped short of eliminating the so-called issuer pays model that causes potential conflicts of interest. Instead, lawmakers opted for a compromise. The S.E.C. must now study whether to create an independent body that will randomly assign ratings to different agencies. 
The rating agencies fiercely oppose this plan, among other Dodd-Frank rules. Some rating agencies also may target an S.E.C. proposal that would require the industry to disclose how well their ratings have performed over time. "One significant concern is whether the S.E.C. will follow up on this rule-making by actively pushing back at rating agencies if these attempts at mandating greater rating agency transparency turn out to produce opaque or formalistic disclosures in practice," said Jeffrey Manns, a professor at George Washington University law school, who is an expert in credit rating agencies.

        
S.E.C. Makes Access to Proxy Ballots Easier
        
Rules for Employees Put the S.E.C. in the Hot Seat

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (91%); SECURITIES LAW (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BONDS (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (59%) Credit Ratings; Dodd-Frank Act; Kathleen Casey; Mary L. Schapiro; Securities and Exchange Commission; Casey, Kathleen L; Schapiro, Mary L; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection A; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (64%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (97%) Securities and Exchange Commission

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (90%) Casey, Kathleen L; Schapiro, Mary L

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



595 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The 6th Floor)

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Adaptive Bombshells

BYLINE: DEAN ROBINSON


HIGHLIGHT: Tim Harford, a columnist for The Financial Times, has a book out this month, "Adapt: Why Success Always Starts With Failure." It's an argument about the virtues - and necessity, really - of trial and error.

 BODY:
Tim Harford, a columnist for The Financial Times, has a book out this month, "Adapt: Why Success Always Starts With Failure." It's an argument about the virtues - and necessity, really - of trial and error. In his words, there are three essential steps: "to try new things, in the expectations that some will fail; to make failure survivable, because it will be common; and to make sure that you know when you've failed." It sort of seems like common sense, but the book's wealth of fascinating case studies shows just how uncommon and difficult it often is for people and institutions to follow such a program.
Arguably one of the arenas where it would be most important to apply (and most important to get right) Harford's three steps is national economic policy, especially for poorer countries. But what kind of experiments are needed to generate growth? How do you measure their success and failure? In addressing these difficult questions, Harford brings up the work of a physicist, Cesar Hidalgo, whose diagrams of networks show how the experimental method might or might not be useful to macroeconomic policymakers. They have also, Harford says, been exhibited as art.
We wanted to see that, naturally. So we asked Harford and Hidalgo to create some examples for us, comparing the export economies of China and the U.S. The results appeared in last Sunday's magazine. Their aesthetic appeal is apparent. Hidalgo's online "Economic Complexity Observatory" is an interactive exhibit that allows users to compare many more countries. It's a novel way of visualizing the character of various national economies.
Harford's book has been getting attention in other places for its obvious relevance in another realm of current import: military flexibility. Today Slate published an excerpt titled "The Airplane That Saved the World: What the R.A.F.'s World War II Spitfire Can Teach Us About Nurturing Innovation and Radical Ideas." And a couple of weeks ago, days after Osama bin Laden was killed, the blogger Andrew Sullivan cited a passage from a post on the Center for a New American Security Web site: "You cannot understand why the U.S. military was able to execute this extraordinary operation deep in the heart of Pakistan without first understanding the failures of Iran in 1980. I've got Tim Harford's new book 'Adapt: Why Success Always Starts with Failure' on my desk right now, and I'm thinking Tim should add our special operations forces as a case study in time for the paperback."
I asked Tim about that. He thought it correct that the American military had learned from earlier failures, adding that special-operations troops in particular are adaptable because they operate in unpredictable situations. But he went on to expand, in an e-mail: "I think the idea of experimenting and adapting is more broadly applicable to more conventional military operations, precisely because in a bigger, longer conflict there is time to figure out what works and what doesn't. This is a process which happens much more readily at the sharp end. (One British general with experience in Afghanistan and under David Petraeus in Iraq told me, with an air of resignation, that on the front line soldiers readily put the lessons they have learned into action because it saves lives, but the higher echelons of the military are far less ready to learn.)"
This brought to mind a passage from Neal Stephenson's novel "Cryptonomicon," part of whose action takes place in the Pacific during World War II. I can't speak to its historical accuracy, but this spirited scene told from the point of view of a Japanese military man, Goto Dengo, certainly gives fictional shape to what Harford is talking about.The American bombers must be in some kind of distress. He speculates that they are low on fuel, or desperately lost, or have been chased down below the cloud cover by the Zeros. Whatever the reason, he knows they have not come here to attack the convoy because American bombers attack by flying overhead at a great altitude, raining down bombs. The bombs always miss because the Americans' bombsights are so poor and the crews so inept .
One of the bombers has apparently decided to lighten its load by dropping a bomb straight into the ocean. The boys of Kulu break into a jeering chant. The American plane, having shed half a ton of useless explosives, peels sharply upward, self-neutered, good for nothing but target practice. The Kulu boys howl at its pilot in contempt. A Nipponese pilot would have crashed his plane into that destroyer at the very least!The Americans, it turns out, have come up with something new, skip bombing.Something flashes in Goto Dengo's peripheral vision; he turns to watch another destroyer being snapped in half like a dry twig as its magazines detonate. Tiny black things are skip, skip, skipping all over the ocean now, like fleas across the rumpled bedsheets of a Shanghai whorehouse. The chant falters. Everyone watches silently.
The Americans have invented a totally new bombing tactic in the middle of a war and implemented it flawlessly. His mind staggers like a drunk in the aisle of a careening train. They saw that they were wrong, they admitted their mistake, they came up with a new idea. The new idea was accepted and embraced all the way up the chain of command. Now they are using it to kill their enemies.
No warrior with any concept of honor would have been so craven. So flexible. What a loss of face it must have been for the officers who had trained their men to bomb from high altitudes. What has become of those men? They must have all killed themselves, or perhaps been thrown into prison.
For a brief description of a real-life military man who was, in the words of the magazine staff writer David Leonhardt, "a hero of adaption - someone who managed to change an organization that had been terrified of failure" - check out Leonhardt's conversation last week with Harford on the Economix blog.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); CASE STUDIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); ARMED FORCES (67%); WORLD WAR II (62%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (50%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (50%) Tim Harford; Harford, Tim

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) Harford, Tim

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



596 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: May 18, 2011

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: For Iraqis and U.S. Troops, a Question Is Still Unanswered

BYLINE: MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT


HIGHLIGHT: Will the United States keep its troops in Iraq after 2011? The answers, sought by Iraqis, reporters and American soldiers, are as redundant as they are critical to Iraq's future.

 BODY:
UMM QASR, Iraq - Wherever American military leaders turn in Iraq, they are peppered with a question they don't seem to be able to answer: Will the United States keep its troops in Iraq after 2011?
The answers, sought by Iraqis, reporters and American soldiers, are as redundant as they are critical to Iraq's future.
American military leaders say it's not up to them. If Iraq wants United States troops to stay longer than a year-end withdrawal deadline laid out in a security agreement signed by the two countries, it will have to ask.
Many Iraqis worry that an American withdrawal will lead to greater instability, but few politicians want to publicly ask the Americans to stay. Nonetheless, Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki last week opened the door to a continued American presence, saying that he would go along with such a plan if a significant majority of Iraqis backed it.
The lack of clarity provides little comfort for American soldiers wondering whether they will be able to go home to their families in December.
After a ceremony here last Thursday that marked the end of the British military's mission in Iraq, Lt. Gen. Michael Ferriter, an American, addressed dozens of American service members and got "The Question" from one of them. Their discussion offered a glimpse of how difficult it is for Army officers to explain the predicament to their own troops.
"I would like to ask pretty much the obvious question," the service member said. "There's a lot of confusion going on in Iraq, among sailors, the Army, Navy, Marines and Navy teams. When are we leaving Iraq for sure?"
"I thought you were going to ask why the Lakers fell apart?" General Ferriter said, referring to the Los Angeles Lakers, who were recently eliminated from the N.B.A. playoffs.
"That is a tough question," said the service member, to laughter from the other service members.
"Why do we have $90 million in salaries" and can't get further in the playoffs, the general asked. "Which one do you want me to answer?" 
"The one I asked, sir," the service member said.
"We are going to zero," said the general. "We sign treaties and we abide by them. So we are transitioning and leaving. The Iraqis are looking at their gaps. There's a lot of discussion in the papers, and as you well know there is work to be done. They have to make some tough decisions and come back and say this is how we want to fill those gaps."
The general continued: "Most of the Iraqi people don't want occupiers. They have had many many years of trainers and advisers - relationships with Russia, the United Kingdom, Italy and the United States."
"So if they ask for something, then our president in an election year has to also take under consideration the needs of America, in our case, and consult with his team of teams and make a counteroffer. And then we'll see where it goes."
Afterward, the general sat down for an interview with another reporter and me, and was eager to discuss a more concrete topic: the progress in training and equipping of the Iraqi military.
Here are some of the highlights.
THE STATUS OF TRAINING THE IRAQI MILITARY - General Ferriter said that the Iraqi military had become very capable of conducting counterinsurgency measures in recent years. So one of the goals for this year was to teach the Iraqis more traditional military functions, like protecting their borders and battlefield movements.
"This year, we took on two tasks. One of the tasks was to train in the fundamentals in order to provide them with the capability to defend themselves from external threats.
"We also took on the training of Iraqi trainers so they can carry on the training next year and beyond. They are at the beginning. They have gone through two iterations of collective fundamental maneuver training at four locations throughout the country, and they just have to run their whole military" through the training.
"This is an extraordinary success to go from the ashes of combat and conflict to a military organization that can have a generating life cycle and protect its country. I think the spotlight needs to be on that."
NATO'S MISSION IN IRAQ - General Ferriter, who is also the commander of NATO's small training mission here, said that officials from Iraq and NATO were discussing the possibility of extending their security agreement. He said that he expected the sides to make a decision by autumn.
"It's a good and comfortable relationship. The NATO training mission brings 28 friends, 28 countries to Iraq and places Iraq within the world scene - again as a very mature country that is able to partner with multiple countries in an alliance. The NATO training mission is very small, provides education and leader development, more specialized police training.
"We have Iraqi soldiers and pilots who are training in the United States and training in Europe today. That kind of relationship can and will continue."
STATUS OF THE IRAQI NAVY - The United States and Britain have spent the past few years training the Iraqi Navy so it can eventually defend its waters, particularly the oil platforms off its coast in the Persian Gulf. The platforms are integral to Iraq's future, because a majority of its gross domestic product is generated from oil that is loaded onto tankers at the port. 
General Ferriter said that the United States had sold the Iraqis nine Swift boats and gifted them three others. The boats come with training and maintenance. 
"We have also gifted the parts warehouse and we built the warehouse and built the ship repair facility as a gift. Technicians from the companies will be here for the next year to assist in either crew training or maintenance training.
"As the new equipment comes on and this awesome team down here of the Iraqi Navy gets trained on that gear they will be able to insure the Iraqi waterways are free and can defend and protect their terminals, that's a good news story."
TRANSFER OF EQUIPMENT TO IRAQIS - General Ferriter said that the United States had delivered nearly all of the tanks and personnel carriers they had sold to the Iraqis on time or ahead of schedule.
"There are people who say there are delays or mistakes. If there is a reason something didn't come on time it's because in the inspection process we didn't allow it to come because it didn't meet the standard.
"We promised the Iraqi people and government that when it shows up, it's going to be terrific. When it arrives it gets deprocessed. If something happened in shipping and something banged around and got bent, we fix it before we deliver it.
"Right now we are ahead on training with the M1 Abrams tanks, the best tank in the world. Of the 140 in this purchase, 111 are here. And the schedule of training is still a couple months ahead.
"There are 1,000 armored personnel carriers. Five hundred will get here before December; 528 will come after."

        
Iraqis Share Their Views on U.S. Troop Presence
        
Iraq: Department of Clarification
        
Mission Accomplished II - The Merchandise
        
A Long-Awaited Day
        
The Way Forward in Iraq

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ARMIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (91%); IRAQ WAR (90%); BASKETBALL (86%); NAVIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%) Iraq; U.S. military; Maliki, Nuri Kamal al-; Defense and Military Forces; Iraq War (2003- ); Status of Forces Agreements; United States Defense and Military Forces; Iraqi Army; Baghdad Bureau

ORGANIZATION: Iraqi Army

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (90%) Maliki, Nuri Kamal al-

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



597 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: As Stimulus Nears End, Fed Signals Focus on Rates

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
A majority of Federal Reserve policy makers said at their most recent meeting that the best next step in their program to stimulate the economy would be to reduce the balance sheet and then focus on interest rates, according to minutes of the April meeting released on Wednesday. But they also said that simply discussing interest rates and other options did not mean that any move ''would necessarily begin soon.''
The minutes, closely watched for any signs of change in Federal Reserve monetary policy, were released as the central bank was nearing the close of its program to buy $600 billion in Treasury securities by the end of June -- its main effort to pump money into the economy as a stimulus. 
Economists and the financial markets will be parsing the language of the central bank and its officials in the coming weeks for signs of what the central bank might do when that program ends.
The minutes made clear that the Fed committee had made no decision on its next move but was debating its options. They said that the committee was continuing to reinvest principal payments from securities holdings and that it would finish its program, announced late last year, of buying the Treasury securities. The bank will also maintain the federal funds rate of zero to one-quarter percent.
The minutes said there were no dissents among the 10 policy makers involved in the decision.
Still, the range of views presented in the April minutes emphasized the debate that is taking place as the bank nears the end of its stimulus program, also known as quantitative easing. This debate will only become sharper over the next month; the committee meets again June 21-22.
Most of the policy makers favored raising the federal funds rate before selling securities, giving the central bank the option to adjust it if needed should there be weaker economic growth. A ''few'' participants preferred that sales and increases in the rate should take place at the same time, and a few preferred that sales begin before any increases. The minutes also said that almost all the members of the committee believed that reinvestments from securities should be stopped as the first step. Most said the timing of asset sales should be announced, with several members saying they could vary with the economic outlook.
''Most participants saw changes in the target for the federal funds rate as the preferred active tool for tightening monetary policy when appropriate,'' the minutes said.
Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at the research firm MFR, said the minutes put a ''finer focus'' on the Fed's strategy for exiting the program.
''That was in the minutes for the first time in terms of nuts and bolts,'' he said. ''It was the first time that we really got something down on paper that seems to be a road map in terms of what they are talking about.''
Gregory Daco, a senior economist with IHS Global Insight, said he believed that the committee would let the bank balance sheets shrink toward the end of 2011, and start moving rates back up in early 2012.
There seemed to be overall agreement on what steps were needed, but not the sequence, in the minutes. ''They have studied the options,'' Mr. Daco said. ''Agreeing on a strategy not to reinvest payments of principal on securities would reduce the balance sheet. That would be in itself a first tightening of monetary policy.''
Stock prices on Wall Street rose after the release of the minutes.
The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, held a news conference immediately after the April meeting, the first such event by any Fed chairman.
Mr. Bernanke, speaking last month, had said that there would be no changes in short-term rates for several meetings. The committee meets eight times each year.
Energy and food prices rose in the first quarter, the minutes noted, with a small uptick in core price inflation, and the government's official unemployment rate, which reflects the share of the labor force actively seeking jobs, rose to 9 percent in April from 8.8 percent in March.
The committee projected that the unemployment rate would decline gradually, while revising up their inflation projections, even though they said higher inflation would be ''transitory.''
Over all, conditions pointed to a ''moderate economic recovery,'' despite unexpectedly slowing growth in the first quarter.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben S. Bernanke addressed the public in late April, after the Fed board's policy meeting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); DIVESTITURES (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011



598 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: At Home on the Farm and in E-Books

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
PINE PLAINS, N.Y. -- Last Friday Susan Orlean was on the verge of some serious animal acquisitions. Her latest herd of 12 Black Angus cattle was scheduled to be dropped off within days. And the local post office could call at any minute to report that four rare and eye-catching Swedish flower hens were ready for pickup, having been shipped overnight from Florida.
She was still thinking, too, now that you mention it, about that donkey that her husband had promised as last year's birthday gift. 
''Donkeys are just so cute,'' said Ms. Orlean, clad in jeans and caramel-colored ankle boots and settling into an ample sectional sofa in the living room of her airy, low-slung house of wood, stone and glass just north of here, in Columbia County. ''You could train them to pull a cart. Or you could put a little kid on them! Purely for entertainment. Here, you can have livestock as pets.''
When you live on a 55-acre property with a pond, looking out on the Taconic Mountains, a menagerie of animals feels like a natural part of the package. At last count Ms. Orlean, along with her husband, John Gillespie, and their 6-year-old son, Austin, had one dog, three cats, eight chickens, four turkeys, six guinea fowl, one fish and two snow-white ducks; she offered to duck-sit the last two for her neighbor last year and has kept them ever since.
They also make excellent material. Ms. Orlean, the author of ''The Orchid Thief'' and a ''cultural biography'' of Rin Tin Tin scheduled for release later this year, was eager to talk about her newest project: a combination of her lifelong obsession with animals and her more recent side job as a technology fanatic. ''Animalish,'' an essay in e-book form, will be published on Thursday exclusively by Amazon as one of its Kindle Singles, snippets of original, long-form writing in both fiction and nonfiction.
Kindle Singles fall into a quickly emerging and still-undefined category in publishing. They are somewhere between a long article or essay and a book, anywhere from 5,000 to 30,000 words, available to download instantly for a price that ranges from 99 cents to $4.99; ''Animalish'' is $1.99.
Similar ventures have popped up recently. Jon Krakauer drew widespread notice for Byliner.com last month when it published his 22,000-word e-book about Greg Mortenson and the questions raised over his book, ''Three Cups of Tea.'' (Mr. Krakauer's book, ''Three Cups of Deceit,'' is now available on Amazon.) In January, a group of journalists introduced the Atavist, another online home for long-form journalism and nonfiction books.
Authors of Kindle Singles typically keep 70 percent of the revenues, while the remaining 30 percent goes to Amazon -- a much more attractive revenue split than mainstream publishers offer.
Ms. Orlean said she wanted to experiment with the form because she had done so much writing and thinking about her interest in animals, but didn't see all of the material as suitable for an essay in The New Yorker, where she has been a staff writer since 1992.
Her fascination with animals began early, when as a child growing up in Ohio she scanned newspaper classifieds to find puppies and horses for sale. As a college student at the University of Michigan, she acquired a dog, Molly, who later accompanied her to Manhattan.
Cooper, a Welsh springer spaniel, was the first dog she and Mr. Gillespie bought together, followed last year by Ivy, an excitable spaniel spotted with red-and-white fur. They got Ivy from a breeder after a family who was hit by hard times could no longer afford to keep the dog and reluctantly returned her to the breeder. ''It was a moment where the recession really became real,'' she said.
These days her collection of animals is for amusement and occasional nourishment. On the countertop in her kitchen was a glass bowl filled with eggs from ducks, chickens and guinea fowl, next to an old-fashioned egg scale that she found on eBay.
Out in the chicken coop next to the house, her turkeys, which are shades of red, white, blue and black, broke away from the chickens, ducks and guinea fowl, gobbling in unison and obediently following her down a path through the woods, where she has a free-standing studio for her writing.
While Ms. Orlean has mastered the old media (long-form pieces in The New Yorker, best-selling books released by major publishers), she has also established herself as a devotee of the new media, blogging and tweeting at an enthusiastic pace.
''It's especially funny because I used to think that I was kind of old-fashioned,'' she said. ''The subjects I write about, the spirit in which I write, seemed in a way rather traditional. And I thought, the new world is coming and this is the way I want to write and I'm not sure how I'll fit into the new world as it changes.''
On Twitter Ms. Orlean has amassed 137,000 followers, and posting tweets has become a habit that loosely coincided with the move by her and Mr. Gillespie -- a former investment banker -- to this house, 100 miles north of Manhattan, four years ago.
''If I lived in the city and went into an office and was around people all the time, and had that ongoing casual neighborhood relationship with people, would Twitter be as interesting?'' she said. ''Maybe not as much.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Susan Orlean, author of the new e-book ''Animalish,'' about her interest in animals, at her home in Columbia County, N.Y., with some of her brood.(C1)
 Susan Orlean, with Mabel Black Label, an Araucana chicken. Her next animal-related project is a book about Rin Tin Tin. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (89%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (88%); WRITERS (86%); HORSES (78%); POULTRY (78%); CATS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011



599 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: New York Voters Pass 93% Of School Budgets in State

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
Voters across New York State approved more than 93 percent of school budgets on Tuesday, as administrators facing sharp reductions in state education aid offered plans to cut staff and programs, tap into reserves and keep tax increases relatively low. 
Statewide, districts proposed an average budget-to-budget increase of 1.3 percent, the lowest in 15 years. (The five largest school districts -- Buffalo, New York, Rochester, Syracuse and Yonkers -- do not hold budget votes.) The average increase in local tax collections was 3.4 percent, up slightly from 3.2 percent last year, though 36 districts proposed no increase at all, and 20 reduced their tax collection.
Over all, 634 budgets passed and 44 were rejected, according to an analysis by the New York State School Boards Association. As of Wednesday evening, only partial results had been released by the State Education Department.
''Voters realized that school officials did all they could to limit spending and taxes this year,'' said Timothy G. Kremer, executive director of the school boards association.
The 93 percent budget approval rate was up slightly from last year, but down from a record 97 percent in 2009, when an infusion of nearly $2 billion in federal stimulus money helped districts hold down taxes without cutting significantly into programs or services. The average passing rate since 1969 has been 84 percent.
This year, even affluent school districts in Westchester County and on Long Island said they were struggling to absorb a $1.3 billion cut in state education aid as they faced rising expenses for personnel and mandated services. Even so, many districts were able to avoid large-scale layoffs and program cuts.
In Pelham, for example, the district will cut three full-time teaching positions, in special education and at the high school, and go without a part-time supervisor for world languages. Administrators renegotiated contracts with employees and dipped into reserve money to help offset a $533,000 cut in direct state aid and create a $63.2 million budget, 2.7 percent above the one for this year. It passed, 744 to 373.
''During these difficult economic times, it is nice to receive the support and endorsement of the community to maintain a quality education program,'' said Dennis R. Lauro Jr., the Pelham superintendent.
In districts where budgets failed, school officials have to decide whether to hold a second budget vote on June 21 or adopt a contingency budget that is no more than 1.9 percent above the current budget, keeping spending flat in many areas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (92%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011



600 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: A Balancing Act At Oaktree Capital

BYLINE: By ROB COX and WEI GU

 BODY:
Oaktree Capital's plans to pursue a public stock listing will test one of the main philosophies of its outspoken founder, Howard Marks. Mr. Marks, whose investment missives are widely followed on Wall Street, has often lamented the tradeoff that fund managers make between gathering assets and maintaining performance. Balancing his preference for returns with the demands for growth among public shareholders won't be easy.
Posted on the Los Angeles-based Oaktree's Web site are business principles that say, among other things: ''Profit without performance, bigness for its own sake and prosperity through cost-cutting are all explicitly rejected. Our earnings should grow if we achieve excellence in investing ... but only then.'' 
While that may sound like an obvious commitment in theory, it's not so easy in practice. That's because returns often diminish as funds become larger. This is particularly true in the case of specialized investment strategies, like the market for distressed debt, where there is a finite pool of securities to place bets on.
So far, Mr. Marks appears to have remained true to the doctrine. Oaktree, which oversees about $80 billion of assets, last year turned down investors wanting to place money in its last fund focused on the debts of troubled companies. Rather than matching the $11 billion in its previous fund, Oaktree raised only about half as much.
Mr. Marks felt that with more money in the fund, it would be harder to generate decent profit. But given the economics of his own business -- especially in the glare of a New York Stock Exchange listing -- the principle may prove hard to stick to.
With an illustrative 2 percent management fee and a 20 percent slice of profit, a $10 billion fund that makes 10 percent returns would generate $400 million a year in fees for Oaktree. A fund half as large that achieves double the return would bring only $300 million in fees for the manager.
Mr. Marks will surely vow to remain true to form. But when he takes Oaktree from the dark recesses of a Goldman Sachs private exchange to the public stock market, he would be wise to ensure his new investors are on board with his philosophy.
Pitfalls of Luxury
No wonder luxury brands like Prada are lining up to list in Hong Kong. The $35 million initial public offering this week of Milan Station, a retailer of used handbags, has been more than 2,000 times oversubscribed in Hong Kong, setting a record. Investors are eager to tap into China's new-money love of old brands. Yet they may be forgetting the risks that go with luxury, like tariffs, counterfeiting and fickle trends.
High-end fashion has become a hot investment theme. Average spending on designer brands by Hong Kong residents has been rising at 18 percent annually in the last five years, according to the British consulting firm Synovate. Visitors, most of them from mainland China, contributed as much $35 billion in total retail spending in Hong Kong in 2009, according to the Hong Kong government.
Milan Station is just a small entree. Prada, Jimmy Choo and Samsonite all plan to float in Hong Kong to raise brand awareness in China. A valuation premium is one attraction. Milan Station is valued at 20 times 2010 earnings, on a par with the multiple currently sported by more established brands such as LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton and Coach.
China may become the world's biggest luxury market in 2015, as McKinsey predicts. But profiting from that may be challenging. Tariffs in mainland China remain high, leaving Hong Kong prices for designer goods 20 percent lower than across the border, according to Bain & Company, a management consultant.
Rampant fakes remain a common risk. But the biggest unknown may be what happens as Chinese consumers get richer. As they become more confident about their tastes, they may be drawn less to big brands. Conspicuous consumption may fall out of fashion, as it somewhat has in Japan.
Besides, there is no guarantee that today's winners will be tomorrow's. Chinese producers already rule in high-end alcohol, and are likely to grab share in segments like jewelry, according to the financial adviser KPMG.
Tastes change, and Western domination of luxury brands is not a given. The white-hot Milan Station I.P.O. suggests investors aren't looking past the sparkly surface.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Howard Marks, the chairman of Oaktree, which plans a public stock listing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); LUXURY GOODS (88%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); TRENDS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); BRANDING (64%); COUNTERFEITING (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) HONG KONG (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); CHINA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011

 
