

401 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Fathom the Human Condition

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 David Brooks tells half of the important story of science and human nature in his July 15 column, ''The Luxurious Growth'' -- the half about genetics and its failure to explain and predict human behavior.
 The other half is about neuroscience, and its emerging success in the same arena. The brain is what integrates the myriad influences of genes and environment, and gives rise to our personalities, interests, abilities and behaviors. 
 As a neuroscientist, I am struck by the rapid development of our ability to explain, predict and even in some cases control human behavior, using brain imaging, brain stimulation and drugs. This work has tremendous potential for good and for ill, and should go forward with more public awareness and involvement. 
 Martha J. Farah
 Philadelphia, July 15, 2008
 The writer is director of the Center for Cognitive Neuroscience at the University of Pennsylvania.
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks writes how scientists view human behavior, motivation and feelings as influenced by genetics, brain mechanisms and interactions over time with a complex environment and the people in it. This is precisely the area in which psychoanalysis works. 
 Psychoanalysis today aims to understand and eliminate negative forces in a person's ''transference'' -- the emotions and predispositions, both conscious and unconscious, from that person's present and past experiences as they come to life as motivational forces in the present, and in particular in the treatment and toward others in the patient's life. 
 I believe that much could be learned if shifts in the transference could, if possible, be studied as they occur, by methods of brain study now available, and as they develop, and their findings correlated with the psychoanalytic findings.
 The human personality is exceedingly complex and multidimensional, but we are learning more and more about it by observational, as in psychoanalysis, and other sophisticated means that are evolving. Alan J. Eisnitz
 Boca Raton, Fla., July 15, 2008
 The writer is a retired psychiatrist and psychoanalyst.
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks's pessimism about the usefulness of genetic knowledge of human behavior stems from his refusal to abandon a strictly deterministic view.
 Contemporary knowledge that combines genetic and environmental influences and their interactions allows us to predict individual behavior in a probabilistic fashion. 
 For example, ample evidence exists to indicate that such disorders as major depression, substance abuse, anxiety disturbance and others can be estimated with a useful degree of accuracy and reliability. We can also estimate a person's cognitive, commercial, artistic, social, athletic and other behavioral skills. 
 With continued research, our knowledge will increase and its usefulness to our educational institutions and society will be enhanced. 
 Whether such information will be valuable will be determined by society's willingness to accept it.
 Howard H. Kendler
 Santa Barbara, Calif., July 15, 2008
 The writer is professor emeritus of psychology at the University of California, Santa Barbara.
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks's position conveniently supports the complete scope of the conservative agenda. 
 If the cause of poverty remains strange and mysterious, we certainly don't have to invest in programs that try to alleviate it. But the problem is that we do know a little something about poverty. We have incontrovertible evidence that the environment in which children are raised, especially from ages 2 to 4, has dramatic effects on their language and cognitive development. 
 Children from high-poverty homes generally come to kindergarten three years behind those from professional families, and that is a challenging deficit to make up. Our educational system valiantly tries to reverse this gap, but a host of issues (class size, staff deficiencies) makes the task of not only making up for, but also reversing, this language-cognitive gap sadly difficult.
 But we know how to do it. The data are available, just not the political or economic will. Eli Rector
 Indio, Calif., July 15, 2008
 The writer is a kindergarten teacher.
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks segues from ''one gene-one meme'' reductionism to the idea that because cognitive pathologies and economic poverty are multifactorial, arrogant social engineering is likely to fail. 
 But isn't free public education a kind of social engineering? And universal vaccination? 
 Societies that provide excellent education and health care for all have better outcomes (longer lives, lower incarceration rates) than the United States.
 Therefore, it doesn't matter if a complete understanding of poverty is elusive; we know there are social policies that will reduce poverty and its harmful consequences. Allan Dobbins
 Homewood, Ala., July 15, 2008
 To the Editor:
 At the end of his column, David Brooks draws the following conclusion: ''The best political actions are incremental, respectful toward accumulated practice and more attuned to particular circumstances than universal laws.'' 
 I respectfully disagree, and would cite the Revolutionary War, the Civil War and the civil rights movement as just three examples in which dramatic political action largely disrespectful to accumulated practice and highly attuned to their particular circumstances changed our country and the world for the better.
 Mr. Brooks rightly warns against overgeneralizing the human condition; we should be equally cautious in assessing the nature of human progress. 
 Dane A. Barnes
 Ann Arbor, Mich., July 15, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GRAHAM ROUMIEU) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NEUROSCIENCE (90%); BRAIN (90%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); WRITERS (89%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); PSYCHIATRY (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); DEPRESSION (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (76%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (64%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%); FLORIDA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2008



402 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Second Stage Will Set Up a Broadway Shop at Helen Hayes

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
Second Stage Theater, a nonprofit Off Broadway company, has had plenty of experience transferring hit productions to Broadway, like the musical ''The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee.'' But now Second Stage is coming to stay. The company plans to announce on Friday that it has acquired the right to purchase the historic Helen Hayes Theater on West 44th Street for an undisclosed price, with programming to begin there in 2010.
 Second Stage will raise $35 million to buy and renovate the theater, the company's founding director, Carole Rothman, said. The Helen Hayes is likely to be renamed. 
 With the Helen Hayes, Second Stage will become the fourth nonprofit theater company in the city to own and operate a Broadway house, joining the Roundabout Theater Company (which leases the American Airlines Theater), the Manhattan Theater Club (the Biltmore) and Lincoln Center Theater (the Vivian Beaumont). It is the latest example of how the lines are blurring between the commercial and nonprofit theater. With the rapidly escalating costs of mounting Broadway shows, the tradition of independent producers has given way to multiheaded producer consortiums and to the larger nonprofit theaters.
 Ms. Rothman said that Second Stage will be the only theater company on Broadway dedicated exclusively to the development and presentation of contemporary American drama. Perhaps more immediately important, the Helen Hayes will give Second Stage a 597-seat permanent home. In the almost 30 years since its founding, the company has leased space in two locations -- a former bank building on West 43rd Street at Eighth Avenue (296 seats) and the base of an apartment building on Broadway at 76th Street (108 seats), now the McGinn/Cazale. Second Stage will continue to operate at all three locations, presenting three productions a season in each of the houses in the theater district and the two shows uptown.
 ''It is about a bigger canvas for the artists and the security of knowing that we have a home,'' Ms. Rothman said. ''I'm excited about the possibility of having this theater that's constantly lit.''
 At the same time Second Stage will confront the higher overhead and larger expectations of the commercial theater world. ''As you get bigger and more successful, the stakes go up, and everybody wants more from you,'' said Ellen Richard, Second Stage's executive director. ''The artists want more -- bigger shows -- it's harder. If you have a 10 percent loss on a $1 million budget, it's $100,000. If you have it on a $15 million budget, it's lot more.'' The company's annual budget, which is expected to double, is currently about $7.5 million. 
 Before joining Second Stage two years ago, Ms. Richard spent 20 years at the Roundabout, a theater that evolved from a space in the basement of a Chelsea supermarket to the former Selwyn Theater on West 42nd Street. ''Everything I learned from Roundabout is coming in handy here,'' she said. ''It didn't get easier.'' 
 The Helen Hayes, the smallest house on Broadway, is independently owned and operated by Martin Markinson. He and Donald Tick, who died in 2006, bought the theater in 1979. In 1987 it was designated a landmark by the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission.
 Second Stage has been in discussions with Mr. Markinson for almost a year, Ms. Richard said. Mr. Markinson said he decided to sell because Second Stage seemed like the right fit for a theater built to present new playwrights and experimental dramas deemed too risky for large Broadway houses. ''I think what the theater business needs is new directors, new playwrights and a place for them to be able to show off their wares,'' Mr. Markinson said. ''If it weren't for Second Stage, chances are I would have no interest in selling it.'' 
 The theater, at 240 West 44th Street, opened in 1912 as the Little Theater with 300 seats. In the 1920s Herbert J. Krapp, the theater architect and designer, redesigned the space to increase capacity to nearly 500 and improve the acoustics. In 1931 the building was sold to The New York Times and converted into a conference space and later renamed The New York Times Hall. The Hayes was subsequently used by CBS and ABC for radio and television shows while continuing as a legitimate theater.
 It was named the Helen Hayes in 1983, after the original Helen Hayes Theater on West 46th Street was razed to make way for the Marriott Marquis Hotel. The Helen Hayes is now home to the musical ''Xanadu.''
 Second Stage, founded in 1979, aims to develop and stage new work and nurture emerging playwrights, directors, actors and designers. In concentrating on contemporary American dramatists, the company has presented, among other works, Douglas Carter Beane's ''Little Dog Laughed'' (which transferred to Broadway), Michael John LaChiusa's musical ''Little Fish,'' Regina Taylor's ''Crowns'' and ''Ricky Jay and His 52 Assistants,'' as well as ''Edward Albee's Peter and Jerry'' and Tina Howe's ''Coastal Disturbances.'' 
 In an economic climate on Broadway that favors long-running crowd pleasers, Ms. Rothman acknowledged that Second Stage is in for a challenge. ''It's a risky business,'' she said. ''I love the risk.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 22, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about plans by the nonprofit Second Stage Theater to buy a Broadway house, the Helen Hayes, using information provided by Second Stage, omitted one of the current owners of the theater. In addition to Martin Markinson, it is owned and operated by the family of Donald Tick, who died in 2006. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Helen Hayes Theater, future home to Second Stage shows.(PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (94%); THEATER COMPANIES (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (91%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); PROPERTY LEASES (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2008



403 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Now in Living Rooms, The Host Apparent

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
For clues about who might be next to get a show on MSNBC, viewers need not have looked further than ''Countdown'' earlier this month. For eight nights beginning just before the Fourth of July, Rachel Maddow, the host of a program on Air America, the liberal talk-radio network, served as a substitute for the vacationing Keith Olbermann. 
 ''At some point, I don't know when, she should have a show,'' said Phil Griffin, hours before he was promoted on Wednesday to president of MSNBC. ''She's on the short list. It's a very short list. She's at the top.''
 At the moment every slot at night on MSNBC is taken, with David Gregory at 6 handing off to Chris Matthews at 7, and with Dan Abrams at 9 following Mr. Olbermann at 8. But some shuffling could be in the offing; Mr. Matthews's contract, for example, is up next year. 
 For her part, Ms. Maddow, who has been a ubiquitous presence as a political analyst on MSNBC this campaign season, said she is ready whenever the call should come. To hasten that process, she recently hired Mr. Olbermann's agent, Jean Sage.
 ''They know I would love to do it,'' Ms. Maddow, 35, said over a recent lunch below 30 Rockefeller Plaza. ''I'm going to let them decide what they want to do about me. I'm saying yes every time they ask me to be on television.''
 The steadily rising profile of Ms. Maddow -- until earlier this year she was also seen regularly on CNN before she signed an exclusive, one-year agreement with MSNBC -- is all the more remarkable considering she does not own a television. (She said she was worried it would be too distracting.) Less than a decade ago she was working odd jobs in western Massachusetts, including one at a Northampton coffee-bean factory where she cleaned out buckets, while finishing a doctoral dissertation on AIDS in prisons.
 She appeared on her way to a career as an AIDS-policy advocate when a funny thing happened: on a lark she auditioned to be the news reader and sidekick on a wacky FM morning radio program in the area. She got the job, which had her occasionally donning an inflatable calculator costume at a local Ford dealer. She acknowledged that the work was not exactly what she had in mind when she graduated from Stanford University with a bachelor's degree in public policy and from Oxford University, which she attended on a Rhodes Scholarship and where she earned her doctorate. 
 In 2004 she somehow parlayed her varied academic and drive-time radio experiences into a job as a co-host on a new morning program on Air America. That put her onto the booking lists of any number of cable news programs desperate for a fresh liberal voice.
 ''If you want a left-right fight, in 2004 or today, there's this roster of dozens, if not hundreds, of conservative talk-show hosts to book,'' she said. ''On the left there's Alan Colmes. Oh, wait a minute, he's taken. I think I got booked, initially, by default.''
 For MSNBC, which has interpreted the success of Mr. Olbermann's rants against the Bush administration and other Republican targets as cause to turn its evening programming further to the left, Ms. Maddow has been a relatively easy fit. Sitting in for Mr. Olbermann on July 7, for example, she opened ''Countdown'' by mocking Senator John McCain, the presumptive presidential nominee, for suggesting that the economy was ''slowing.''
 ''Slowing, senator?'' she said. ''Try grinding to a halt. But don't worry, Senator McCain says he can balance the budget by saving all sorts of money when he wins the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.''That same night she took the news media at large to task for suggesting that Senator Barack Obama, the presumptive Democratic nominee, had recently softened plans to withdraw American troops from Iraq. 
 But Ms. Maddow said that it would be a mistake to paint her broadly as pro-Obama and anti-McCain. ''I'm not that much of a typecastable liberal,'' she said over lunch. ''I am not a fan of either candidate.''
 She said, for example, that she disagreed with Mr. Obama's plan to withdraw one to two combat brigades a month from Iraq. ''I wouldn't want to be serving in the last brigade left,'' she said. ''I almost think the best way would be to set a date by which you will leave, and let the Pentagon figure out the smartest way to do it.''
 Which leads to yet another element of Ms. Maddow's portfolio: the daughter of an Air Force captain who served in Vietnam, she is an admitted defense-policy wonk. ''I'm a national security liberal, which I tell people because it's meant to sound absurd,'' she said. ''I'm all about counterterrorism. I'm all about the G.I. Bill.'' 
 She's even writing a book for Crown about the shifting role of the military as a political issue, to be published as early as next year. Her editor is Rachel Klayman, who edited Mr. Obama's second book, ''The Audacity of Hope.''
 About her radio show, which is heard from 6 to 9 p.m. weeknights on 32 stations nationally, Ms. Maddow said: ''I almost never talk about right-wing talk-show hosts or Fox. I don't consider myself to be watchdogging the right the way Keith does.''
 Nonetheless, while filling in for Mr. Olbermann, she did not hesitate to wade into the seemingly never-ending feud between MSNBC and Fox News. On July 7 she told ''Countdown'' viewers that rumors of a romance between Alex Rodriguez and Madonna had led to ''a personal flashback for me.''
 ''The one time Fox News ever asked me to be a guest,'' she said, ''was when Madonna made news for kissing another famous female, Britney Spears.''
 ''They thought I had expertise, maybe,'' she said. ''I said no, duh.''
 Implicit in the story is that Ms. Maddow is gay, something well known to listeners of her radio show. Her partner of the last decade is an artist named Susan Mikula, who had hired Ms. Maddow -- during that period when she was doing odd jobs while finishing her dissertation -- to do some landscaping.
 ''She opened the door, and we both went, 'Aaaaah,' '' Ms. Maddow said. ''It was love at first sight.''
 Which raises a question: Does she think America is ready for an openly gay host on cable news at night?
 ''Well, I think Ellen DeGeneres has shown people are ready for her,'' Ms. Maddow said, using a morning-show analogy. ''But I will not dance the way Ellen does.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 19, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about Rachel Maddow, the Air America radio host who is being considered for a television program on MSNBC, using information from Ms. Maddow, misstated the location of her father's service in the Air Force. He served stateside during the Vietnam War years, not in Vietnam.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rachel Maddow, masked by the face of Keith Olbermann.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MSNBC)
Rachel Maddow filling in as host of MSNBC's ''Countdown With Keith Olbermann'' this month.
 Rachel Maddow in the ''Countdown'' studios. ''I almost never talk about right-wing talk-show hosts or Fox,'' Ms. Maddow said. ''I don't consider myself to be watchdogging the right.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BESS GREENBERG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); LIBERAL MEDIA (78%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (77%); POLITICS (70%); AIDS & HIV (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2008



404 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2371 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times: July 17, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 CAR BOMB KILLS 20
 In Wave of Iraqi Violence
 A car bomb exploded in a street market in the northern Iraqi city of Tal Afar, killing 20 people, including 9 children, said the director of the hospital where the bodies were taken. Ninety more people were injured, and the number of dead may rise, the director said. The bomb was the deadliest attack in a wave of violence across northern Iraq, including an attack in Mosul that killed five. PAGE A10
 U.S. FORCED TO ABANDON OUTPOST
 American forces have abandoned the outpost in northeastern Afghanistan where nine American soldiers were killed Sunday in a heavy attack by insurgents, NATO officials said. The withdrawal handed a propaganda victory to the Taliban, and insurgents were quick to move into the village of Wanat beside the abandoned outpost, Afghan officials said. PAGE A10 
 KNIFE ATTACKS RAISE FEARS
 A spate of knife attacks in Britain, where few people have guns or access to them, has forced the issue to the top of the domestic agenda, with the Metropolitan Police making knife crime their top priority, along with terrorism. Government and law enforcement officials are scrambling to produce plans to allay public fears, including automatic prosecutions of anyone over the age of 16 caught with a knife. PAGE A6
 CLASH INVOLVES PROTESTING PARENTS
 Hundreds of parents protesting shoddy school construction that they said led to the deaths of their children in the May earthquake in China were harassed by riot police officers and criticized by local government officials, said the parents. They added that local officials were also trying to buy their silence by offering them about $8,800. PAGE A6
 POLICE SEIZE MALAYSIAN FIGURE
 Police officers wearing ski masks seized Malaysia's most prominent opposition politician, Anwar Ibrahim, and took him to jail on suspicion of sodomy. Mr. Anwar, 61, has strongly denied the accusation, calling it a political fabrication by the same governing establishment that convicted him on charges of sodomy and corruption in 1998. The sodomy charge was later overturned. PAGE A6
 RUSSIAN REQUESTS PAROLE
 Lawyers for Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the former chairman of Yukos Oil and once Russia's richest person, now in prison on tax evasion charges, filed a request for his early parole. The arrest was widely seen as Kremlin-orchestrated punishment for Mr. Khodorkovsky's opposition to Vladimir V. Putin, who was president at the time and is now prime minister. Since Dmitri A. Medvedev became president in May, lawyers said, the legal atmosphere in the country has changed. PAGE A8
 national
 SEATTLE CALLS IT QUITS
 On Its Public Toilets
 After spending $5 million on its automated public toilets, Seattle is calling it quits. The bathrooms have become so filthy, so overrun with drug users and prostitutes, that some of the city's most destitute citizens refuse to use them. ''I'm not going to lie, I used to smoke crack in there,'' said a homeless woman. ''But I won't even go inside that thing now. It's disgusting.'' PAGE A13
 CANDIDATES FOCUS ON HISPANICS
 Three times this month, Senators John McCain and Barack Obama have addressed national Hispanic advocacy and community service organizations. And both presidential campaigns are emphasizing issues like education, health care and housing as much as, if not more than, immigration and related border issues. The candidates' stances on the issues and their tone, however, are markedly different. PAGE A16
 OBAMA TIPS NEWS SCALE
 Evening news anchors jockey for interviews with Senator Barack Obama as he heads for Iraq and other places overseas this summer, despite the low-key affair of Senator John McCain's trip to Iraq last spring. The coverage of Mr. Obama's trip reflects how the candidate remains an object of fascination in the news media, but also feeds into concerns among Mr. McCain's campaign and other Republicans that the coverage of the candidates is imbalanced. PAGE A17
 EFFORTS TO KEEP SAME-SEX UNIONS
 Opponents of a ballot initiative banning same-sex marriages in California are calling for a boycott on the hotelier Doug Manchester after he donated $125,000 to support the measure. Mr. Manchester donated the money to support the collection of signatures to qualify the initiative, which would prohibit same-sex marriage, for the November ballot. PAGE A15
 WHITE HOUSE DISAVOWS FUND-RAISER 
 The White House disavowed the actions of a Houston businessman and Bush campaign fund-raiser who was caught on videotape apparently trying to trade access to top administration officials in exchange for six-figure donations to President Bush's library foundation. PAGE A13
 Benefits of Healthy Diets A13
 obituaries
 GEORGE B. HARTZOG JR., 88
 His finely tuned political skills as director of the National Park Service in the 1960s and early '70s led to the addition of nearly 50 million acres to the park system, more than doubling its size. The list went beyond national parks to include recreation areas, seashores, river ways and historical monuments. PAGE B6
 SPORTS
 FILIPINOS GIVE AN EMBRACE
 To Their N.B.A. Visitors
 The population may be small and the economy weak compared with other Asian markets. But the Philippines loves the N.B.A., and Filipinos spend their money accordingly, as sportswear companies know, with sneaker companies rewarding the country by sending their star endorsers to visit. ''They make you feel like you're a god,'' Gilbert Arenas said of the fans there. PAGE D6
 THE INVISIBLE FACTOR AT THE OPEN
 With play at the 137th British Open to begin on Thursday, much of the talk around the course at Royal Birkdale centered on a player with no chance of winning because he is sitting home in Florida recovering from surgery on his left knee. Nearly every interview session featured at least one and usually several queries about the meaning of life after Tiger Woods. PAGE D1
 NO. 4 IN THE SPOTLIGHT
 With N.F.L. training camps about to open, the big story is one that should have surprised nobody: Brett Favre has decided he might want to play again. After deciding he didn't. (And, according to some, with yet another flip-flop in between.) Should the Green Bay Packers welcome him back? William C. Rhoden, Sports of The Times. PAGE D1
 metro
 TWO CITY OFFICIALS ACCUSED
 Of Faking Adoptions
 Prosecutor Michael J. Garcia, above, announced the arrests of two officials of the city's child welfare agency and the fiscal director of a Brooklyn foster care agency. They have been charged with creating phantom adoptions in a scheme to pocket hundreds of thousands of dollars that otherwise would have gone to the care of children with disabilities or special needs, federal authorities said. PAGE B1 
 MERRILL LYNCH DROPS MOVE PLANS
 Merrill Lynch & Company has terminated talks with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and the developer Larry A. Silverstein over moving its headquarters to one of the new office towers planned for ground zero. The company's decision is a major setback for the agency and Mr. Silverstein, who is required to build three of the four towers but may find it hard to raise money for construction. PAGE B1 
 GAME OUTLASTS VIEWERS
 The All-Star Game was still going on when the regulars of late night like Jay and Dave signed off, and even when the really late-night guys, like Conan, left the air. But if random interviews with workers in Midtown Manhattan were any indication, this was not one of those games that threw New York off schedule. PAGE B3 
 BUSINESS
 'BIGGER-FASTER-STRONGER' BECOMES
 'How Green Are My Airplanes'
 The air show in Farnborough, England, usually has aircraft makers vying for bigger-faster-stronger bragging rights. But the high price of oil has led to a new marketing approach, as fuel costs have hurt airlines around the world. Manufacturers are playing down the importance of speed and lauding initiatives to reduce the environmental impact of flying, and the cost. PAGE C1
 LIFTING THE CURTAIN ON TAX EVASION
 The veil of secrecy surrounding offshore bank accounts was pierced by a Senate report that accused several wealthy individuals -- and a prince in Liechtenstein -- of maneuvering to evade American taxes. The 115-page report, prepared by the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, accused the three individuals of using offshore accounts to dodge taxes. PAGE C2
 WILL SUPERTRAMP COME BACK, TOO?
 The Big Mac turns 40 this year, and in its honor McDonald's is reviving the ''Two all beef patties, special sauce'' jingle it introduced in 1974 when, as it happened, gasoline prices were high, inflation was rampant and an unpopular Republican occupied the White House. Coincidence? Whatever, McDonald's can live with the reminder. PAGE C1
 MOTHER SUING FOR ACCESS TO DRUG
 In a dispute that exposes the sometimes blurry boundaries between medical research and patients' hope for life-saving treatments, a mother is suing a biotechnology company for access to an experimental drug that she says could help her 16-year-old son in his battle with a rare but devastating disease. The mother says executives repeatedly assured her that her son would get the drug; the company denies ever making such promises. PAGE C3
 HOME
 I HATE MY MOTHER.
 And This Bedroom Is Too Small.
 Christopher K. Travis, a designer and builder, believes he has an answer to the pitfalls people face in building a house, based on designing a house that is ''a suite of emotional experiences.'' Clients should be prepared to discuss, among other things, how they get along with their parents. A psychologist says it may not be as crazy as it sounds. PAGE D1 
 A THRIVING NUISANCE
 People and animals may not flourish with rising levels of greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide, but poison ivy is having a field day. Getting rid of the rash-causing plant can turn out to be more of a job than a gardener has bargained for, a fact that has given rise to professional removers. Whoever does it, protection is advised. PAGE D1 
 Arts
 A PEN WITH NO LOVE FOR SPOTLIGHTS
 Is Named 17th Poet Laureate
 Kay Ryan was a poet, almost against her own will, but eventually found ''I couldn't resist.'' Now, as the Library of Congress names her the 17th poet laureate, it is a crowning accolade standing atop a wealth of other prizes for work described as having ''this quality of simplicity.'' PAGE B1 
 WATCH UNTIL, AND AFTER, THE VOMIT
 Eat as much macaroni and cheese as you can and then physically exert yourself until you throw up? What about a show of montages from reality television? You could watch a man who was told he'd never sing again belt out a Josh Groban tune or see a fat man get walked upon by women in stiletto heels. Remakes, knockoffs and spectacles of disgust abound. Bask in the choreographed reality, writes Alessandra Stanley. PAGE B1 
 EXISTENTIAL POLITICAL STRANGENESS
 ''The Strangerer'' is a bizarre and sometimes whimsical blend of existential philosophy, political satire and absurdism. Actors portraying George W. Bush and John Kerry enter into a discussion of morality, which is ''fitfully funny,'' but misses a deeper political commentary, Andy Webster writes. PAGE B9 
 STYLES
 APPLYING BEACH SKILLS
 To Backyard Games
 Beach volleyball takes an otherwise enjoyable game to a new level by introducing, among other things, skimpy clothing. But not everyone is cut out for skimpiness, or has access to a beach. Not to worry. The same skill set can be applied in the backyard or at the next company picnic. Misty May-Treanor, a 2004 Olympic gold medalist in beach volleyball, provides tips. PAGE E1 
 DEBUNKING A TABOO
 While tattoos have been spreading seemingly like skin fungus, many Jews have forgone body art because of the familiar adage that a decorated person could not be buried in a Jewish cemetery. But some Jews are openly (or secretly) defiant -- How about a nice Star of David? -- of an edict that, as it turns out, is apparently nothing more than an urban legend. PAGE E1 
 HAVE A SNIFF AND CHEER UP
 Pharmacologists in Israel have found that frankincense, already recorded as a fitting gift for a newborn deity in human form, relieves anxiety and depression, at least in mice. Some people are greeting the news with knowing acceptance; others are skeptical, with one psychopharmacologist observing, ''There's no such thing as depression in mice.'' PAGE E6 
 Editorial
 TALKING SENSE ON IRAQ
 Senator Barack Obama has offered a sensible and comprehensive blueprint for dealing with the mess that President Bush created by bungling the war of necessity in Afghanistan, which could have made Americans safer, and launching a war of choice in Iraq that has made the world more insecure. PAGE A22
 WELCOME ROUT ON MEDICARE
 Congress's overwhelming support for a modest bill to improve Medicare shows that with the right political strategy -- and a sensible argument -- Medicare reform is not only essential, it is also possible. PAGE A22
 THE RIGHT TO KNOW
 The White House has put up near hysterical opposition to a proposed law that would provide journalists some protection against revealing confidential sources in court. Such fear-mongering is predictable from an administration obsessed with concealing its own abuses. PAGE A22
 op-ed
 GAIL COLLINS
 After four years, gay marriage has begun to feel normal in Massachusetts. There is no greater force against bigotry than the moment when something becomes so routine that you stop noticing it. Then one day you realize that interracial couples or female police officers or presidential candidates are just the way things are. PAGE A23
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 This week's news of an arrest warrant for the Sudanese president, Omar Hassan al-Bashir, had many aid workers and diplomats panicked that he would retaliate by attacking peacekeepers or humanitarian workers. But instead of wringing our hands, we should be applauding. PAGE A23
 OBAMA AT THE GATE
 In an article, Christoph Peters, a German novelist, writes that while many Germans insist that allowing Barack Obama to speak at the Brandenburg Gate would be inappropriate meddling in the American election, he feels the symbolism would be appropriate. PAGE A23

CORRECTION-DATE: July 21, 2008

 CORRECTION:
 An article on Thursday about Merrill Lynch's decision to end talks over moving its headquarters to one of the new towers planned for ground zero omitted the name of the first private company that has agreed to move there. It is Beijing Vantone Real Estate, which earlier this year signed a nonbinding agreement to lease space in the Freedom Tower. A chart in some editions also omitted the company's name. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); PAROLE (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); EARTHQUAKES (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); TAX FRAUD (67%); CORRUPTION (67%); TAX LAW (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (66%); COCAINE (60%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%); POLICE FORCES (58%)

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2008



405 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Slowdown Fears Push Oil Prices Down; Stocks Soar

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Fears that an economic slowdown in the United States could spread to other parts of the world and lead to lower energy consumption pushed oil prices down sharply for the second day on Wednesday. 
 The drop in price contributed to a jump on Wall Street with the major markets all rising more than 2.5 percent.
 The two-day decline in oil prices might signal a break in the oil price rally that began more than six years ago, although it remains unclear how far prices will fall or whether the respite is temporary. 
 Oil futures closed down fell $4.14 to settle at $134.60 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. That followed a $6.44 drop on Tuesday, the biggest one-day decline since 1991.
 As oil dropped, the major market indexes soared. The Dow closed up 2.5 percent or 276.74 points, to 11,239.28. The broader indicators also rose. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced 2.5 percent, to 1,245.34, and the Nasdaq rose 3.1 percent, to 2,284.85. The stock market also got a lift from a decision by Wells Fargo & Company to increase its dividend easing some investor concerns about the stability of banks. 
 Bond prices declined and the dollar strengthened against the euro.
 The fall in oil prices comes as the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, provided a bleak assessment of the American economy over two days of testimony before Congress. It was also ignited by fresh evidence that Americans were reducing their energy use. 
 A weekly report by the Energy Department showed that commercial oil inventories, which were expected to fall, rose unexpectedly on Wednesday as more oil went into storage than expected instead of being refined and sold. 
 Bleak economic news has been building over the last few weeks, in particular with the renewed concerns over the American banking and mortgage industry. 
 At the same time, some of the geopolitical tensions that surrounded the move of oil prices toward $150 a barrel also showed some signs of easing. 
 The Bush administration said on Tuesday that it would allow a senior diplomat to attend a meeting of European and Iranian negotiators over Iran's nuclear program, in what would be the highest-level talks between American and Iranian representatives since 1979. Fears of a military strike by Israel or the United States on Iran's nuclear operations helped push oil prices to record highs last week.
 ''Things have been looking rather glum over the past couple of days,'' said John Kilduff, an energy analyst at MF Global. He called the news about talks with Iran and the unexpected increase in oil inventories ''a one-two punch for bears'' that could signal a deeper drop in prices in coming weeks.
 Oil prices have risen more than sevenfold since 2002 as fast-growing demand in developing countries has outpaced the growth in new oil supplies. In the past year, they've more than doubled, pushing gasoline prices above $4 a gallon in the United States and leading to frenzied efforts in Congress to address runaway energy costs.
 But as high energy prices ripple through the economy, there is growing unease at how much they are contributing to higher costs for everything from food to consumer goods. Consumer prices have risen at their fastest pace in 17 years in June, according to a government report released Wednesday. 
 Businesses are also being hit hard. Automakers and airlines like General Motors and Delta Airlines are losing billions of dollars and laying off thousands of employees. 
 Consumers have sharply reduced their gasoline consumption in the face of record prices. Gasoline demand in the United States, for example, fell 5.2 percent last week, according to a nationwide survey by MasterCard, its 12th consecutive weekly drop. 
 Despite the falling price of oil, gasoline is still rising. Retail gasoline, on a nationwide average, set a record at $4.11 a gallon on Wednesday, according to AAA. Diesel also touched a new high of $4.84 a gallon. 
 As a result of these higher prices and reduced demand, refiners are using less oil. Instead of falling as refiners draw on their inventories, oil stocks built up. Oil stocks rose 2.95 million barrels to 296.9 million barrels last week, a report by the Department of Energy showed on Wednesday. Analysts had expected inventories to drop by about 2.2 million barrels.
 Most analysts expect global oil demand to slow this year and next. OPEC on Tuesday cut its forecast for the growth in oil consumption next year by 100,000 barrels a day to 900,000 barrels a day. The oil cartel suggested that prices might also ease as more supplies come on the market. 
 ''The decline in demand for OPEC crude combined with increasing OPEC capacity should further ease market conditions and likely help moderate prices,'' the report said. ''Whether the market will fully benefit from the softening fundamentals will depend on other factors such as geopolitical tensions, financial markets developments and downstream constraints.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); BONDS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); CURRENCIES (70%); TESTIMONY (65%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); EURO (51%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); ISRAEL (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2008



406 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Verizon Is Given Approval To Sell TV Programming

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
State regulators said on Wednesday that Verizon Communications could begin selling cable television programming in New York City, a decision likely to give consumers more choices and potentially lower prices. 
 Unlike Cablevision and Time Warner Cable, which sell video, Internet and phone services in distinct sections of the city, Verizon's 12-year franchise requires that the company make its products available to residents throughout New York. Cablevision and Time Warner are not expected to apply for a citywide franchise when their current agreements expire. 
 Garry Brown, the chairman of the state's Public Service Commission, said the approval of Verizon's franchise was ''a sure-fire win for consumers in New York City.''
 Verizon is spending billions of dollars to build a new high-speed fiber-optic network to deliver those services. Twenty percent of New York's 3.1 million households, mostly in Manhattan and Staten Island, now have access to that network. By the end of 2009, Verizon's network will reach 30 percent of Queens, Brooklyn and the Bronx.
 A Verizon spokesman, John Bonomo, said the company would announce the details of its new offers in New York in the coming weeks. Not every neighborhood now covered by Verizon's network will be able to get television service immediately, because central switching offices still must be upgraded to handle video services, he added.
 As a condition of government approval, Verizon must reach every household within six years. The Public Service Commission, citing ''the economic realities and scope of building out the entire city of New York in an environment where Verizon will compete head-to-head with the incumbent cable operators,'' gave Verizon six years, instead of the five they originally were expected to have, to meet its target.
 To reach that goal, Verizon must negotiate with apartment landlords and other owners to gain access to their buildings, a complicated process.
 That is likely to frustrate consumers eager to switch services.
 ''New Yorkers are legendarily impatient, but they'll have to get used to waiting,'' said Craig E. Moffett, an industry analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, a brokerage. Still, Verizon ''will extract their pound of flesh from Time Warner'' in places they go head-to-head, he said.
 In the dozens of towns and cities in New York where Verizon has already started selling television, the company has offered introductory prices to persuade consumers to switch their cable or satellite services. Often, rival cable and satellite companies have retaliated in kind.
 For instance, Verizon has been selling a bundle of phone, Internet and television services for as low as $69.99 a month for six months if consumers sign a two-year contract. The company has also offered new customers free flat-panel televisions and other incentives.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); APPROVALS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (73%); FIBER OPTICS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (66%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (60%)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (58%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); TWC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2008



407 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: For Pelosi, a Familiar Fight Against Offshore Drilling

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Upon entering Congress in 1987, Representative Nancy Pelosi quickly became part of the solid California front against oil drilling along much of the nation's coast.
 The Santa Barbara oil spill in 1969 and the steady push to tap the potential reserves off the state's rugged coast had galvanized Californians and made opposition to offshore drilling part of the political DNA of up-and-coming figures like Ms. Pelosi.
 She repeatedly resisted oil drilling in marine sanctuaries near her San Francisco district and, after joining the Appropriations Committee, was an advocate of reinstating the ban on coastal drilling through spending restrictions each year. 
 ''We learned the hard way that oil and water do not mix on our coast,'' Ms. Pelosi told a crucial committee in 1996 as she argued for keeping the ban before a Congress then controlled by Republicans.
 Now, with gasoline prices soaring, those drilling restrictions are facing their most severe test in years as calls intensify to pursue domestic oil more forcefully. Yet despite increasing pressure from President Bush, a full-bore assault by Congressional Republicans and some anxiety among her own rank-and-file Democrats, Ms. Pelosi is not budging.
 ''The president of the United States, with gas at $4 a gallon because of his failed energy policies, is now trying to say that is because I couldn't drill offshore,'' Ms. Pelosi said in an interview. ''That is not the cause, and I am not going to let him get away with it.'' 
 Her voice carries considerable weight because Ms. Pelosi, who is now House speaker, can prevent a vote on expanded drilling from reaching the floor.
 And she and Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, appear intent on holding the line against calls to approve drilling in areas now off limits. They argue that the oil and gas industry is not aggressively exploring large expanses it has already leased on land and offshore. They have also urged Mr. Bush to pour some fuel from national reserves into the commercial supply chain in an effort to lower prices.
 Trying to demonstrate that Democrats are not opposed to drilling in acceptable locales, the House is scheduled to vote on Thursday on a proposal that would deny oil companies any new leases unless they can show they are diligently exploring existing holdings. The measure would also require annual lease sales from lands in Alaska set aside as a National Petroleum Reserve, and direct the Interior Department to make sure a pipeline is linked to the reserves. Democrats, not subtly, are calling the measure the Drill Responsibly in Leased Lands, or Drill, Act.
 In the Senate, Democrats are pushing a measure to curb speculation in oil markets.
 But Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican leader, who is escorting a delegation to the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska this weekend, said the Democrats' approach was woefully insufficient. Mr. Boehner said Ms. Pelosi, in insisting on preserving the drilling ban, was putting Democrats in the crosshairs of voters furious about gas prices.
 ''I think Speaker Pelosi is walking her Blue Dogs and other vulnerable Democrats off a cliff, and they know it,'' said Mr. Boehner, referring to the coalition of Democrats representing more conservative districts. 
 He accused the speaker of using procedural maneuvers to thwart votes on expanded drilling, a position that he said would prevail if the moment arrived. ''Harry Reid and Nancy Pelosi are standing in the way of what the American people want,'' Mr. Boehner said.
 In both the House and Senate, small groups of Democrats have begun meeting informally with Republicans to try to reach a bipartisan response to higher oil prices, and opening up new areas to drilling is part of the mix. Leaders of the Blue Dog coalition are openly pressing for drilling in the Arctic refuge and elsewhere.
 Backers of the drilling ban have pushed back furiously and appear to have bolstered some of their colleagues. Senator Barbara Boxer, a California Democrat who has been fighting offshore drilling since the 1970s, has been cornering fellow senators to impress upon them the importance of the ban to Californians, comparing it to a mainstay of farm-state senators.
 ''This is our ethanol,'' Mrs. Boxer said of protecting the coast from oil drilling.
 Since taking over as speaker, Ms. Pelosi has asserted herself on energy policy, which she sees as an overarching cause that encompasses national security, climate change, the economy, health care and the environment.
 ''This captures everything,'' said Ms. Pelosi, who last year broke a deadlock that had lasted for decades over increasing automotive fuel economy standards.
 In a private meeting last week, according to some in attendance, Ms. Pelosi told members of her leadership team that a decision to relent on the drilling ban would amount to capitulation to Republicans and the White House, and that she was having none of it. She attributes today's energy problems to a failure of the Bush administration to develop a comprehensive approach, to its ties to the oil industry and to a mishandling of the economy.
 With the drilling restrictions under such scrutiny, backers of the ban say they are heartened that Ms. Pelosi wields the power she does.
 ''It is really important to have a Californian as speaker on this topic,'' said Representative Lois Capps, a Democrat who represents Santa Barbara.
 Ms. Pelosi has shown a willingness on issues like terror surveillance and spending on the Iraq war to look past her personal views and allow legislation she opposes to move through the House. But on the drilling ban, it is clear she sees her position as the one that should carry the day. She said national policy had to move beyond the long dispute over the ban.
 ''This is part of the fight we are in,'' she said. ''We have to get to a place where one day my grandchildren will say, 'Do you believe our grandparents had to go with their car and fill up?' It will be like going with a barrel on our head to a well to get water. That will be the equivalent.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nancy Pelosi joined Congress in 1987 and became part of its coalition against coastal oil drilling.(PHOTOGRAPH BY VINCE MAGGIORA/SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL EXTRACTION (92%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL SPILLS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (77%); WILDLIFE (72%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (70%); GASOLINE MARKETS (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); APPROVALS (62%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (93%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); HARRY REID (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2008



408 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Moving Too Fast To Drive 55

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: PLATTEKILL, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 At the Plattekill travel plaza of the New York State Thruway on Wednesday, you didn't need a weatherman to know which way the wind was blowing on gas prices and on the economy over all.
 Forget the $4.27 per gallon for regular at the pumps. Inside, every flat-screen television seemed to feature one scary message or another for people to ponder over their Starbucks lattes or Roy Rogers burgers.
 ''America's Fuel Crisis,'' read the headline on CNN as various talking heads were summoned to debate drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. ''What I'll Never Give Up,'' was the topic on Headline News as callers were asked what they could not do without (favorite guitar and amp was one reply) no matter how far under water their finances might sink. 
 So you might have thought an idea that could cut people's gasoline costs by 15 percent or more as soon as they pulled out of the lot might have some appeal. It's a Golden Oldie from the 1970s that was resuscitated this month when Senator John Warner, Republican of Virginia, suggested that Congress might want to consider returning to a national speed limit to save gasoline and possibly ease fuel prices. 
 Mr. Warner did not call for a return to 55 miles per hour, the limit set by Congress in 1974 in reaction to the energy shocks of another generation. But he asked the Energy Department to determine the most fuel-efficient speed limit, noting that Americans had saved 167,000 barrels of petroleum a day when the 55-mile limit was in effect. (Congress repealed the measure in 1995.) The experts say that fuel efficiency deteriorates radically at speeds above 60 miles per hour. Every 5 miles over that threshold is estimated to cost drivers, Mr. Warner said in his letter, ''essentially an additional 30 cents per gallon in fuel costs.''
 So slowing down from 65 or 70 miles per hour to 55 or 60 might seem a no-brainer -- free money! -- for drivers reeling from high gas prices. But though the rational brain might say yes, the reptile brain, the metabolic modern brain, the highway-driver brain, seems to say, let's look for savings another way.
 ''It's unrealistic,'' said Darren Jacobs, an engineer from Grantham, N.H., who was driving home from Macungie, Pa. That is a trip of 412 miles, or 6 hours and 47 minutes, according to MapQuest. So assuming 25 miles per gallon, driving at 55 would likely cost 40 minutes and save at least $7. He figured he'd spend the money.
 ''It's too slow,'' Mr. Jacobs said. ''It's not the way we live. Everything is fast. We eat fast food. We have high-speed Internet. If you're going from Point A to Point B you want to get there as soon as you can. I don't think the solution is making us go slower. It's getting tough on the greedy people who are profiting from this.''
 Pete Boucheron, a retiree from Schenectady, N.Y., said, yeah, there's some logic to 55, but it might have more appeal if prices got really high, say $6 or $7 a gallon. Gustavo Cardenas said he was for it -- but then, he's from Montreal.
 Environmental groups say 55 is a good idea and as there's an Internet presence for everything, groups like the Drive 55 Conservation Project, (www.drive55.org) are ready to go. 
 On the other hand, given red-state fury over the mere thought of a return to 55, don't bet on a new law. As Sammy Hagar's ''I Can't Drive 55'' put it: ''Write me up for 125/Post my face, wanted dead or alive/Take my license, all that jive/I can't drive 55!''
 In fact, there are various ideas out there to cope with the crushing increase in gas prices; one is for governments to be open four days a week, for longer hours, instead of five. But maybe Phil Gramm wasn't entirely wrong. Maybe we are happier whining about problems rather than coming up with solutions that entail any sort of inconvenience.
 As for 55 -- law or not, no one's stopping you. A retro drive toward the Catskills on Wednesday, with Chopin (way above my customary cultural pay grade) playing on the radio, had its pleasures. Crossing the Tappan Zee at 55, I was pretty much in the traffic flow, but before long I was being passed by everyone except one guy in a Nissan Maxima with handicap plates. It was not too bad on 287, but quite a bit more harried on the Thruway, which was two lanes, populated by many big trucks and S.U.V.'s probably not listening to Chopin.
 I would not have been averse to a similar trip home, but like Mr. Jacobs, I had a deadline, and 55 seemed a luxury I couldn't afford. I tuned the radio to oldies rock on WCBS, and a little pokily, but more or less in the traffic flow, set the cruise control to 65.
 Update: Alas, the saga of the Wiffle ball kids of Greenwich, Conn., seems to have come to a lawyerly, if not entirely happy ending. After a group of players, parents and town officials met for two hours on Wednesday, First Selectman Peter Tesei said that the field youngsters built in May in an empty lot owned by the town would have to come down by Friday because it raised unacceptable liability issues. The town plans to help them build another field at a nearby school. ''I think they could have let us play a few more weeks,'' said Vincent Provenzano, one of the organizers. Then he excused himself, saying he was in the middle of a game.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A United States senator has recalled that a national speed limit of 55 saved both money and gas.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BESS GREENBERG/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); SPEED LIMITS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); GASOLINE (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (70%); WILDLIFE (55%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (55%)

PERSON: JOHN WARNER (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ARCTIC (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2008



409 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Offers Measures to Help Agencies Share Information on Building Sites

BYLINE: By COLIN MOYNIHAN

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced broad changes on Wednesday in how the city will regulate building sites and share information between agencies to improve the inspection process and avoid tragedies like last summer's fire at the Deutsche Bank tower in Lower Manhattan.
 The 33 recommended measures are an outgrowth of a six-month study by the mayor's staff, which reviewed flaws in the way the city inspects construction locations, demolition sites and places where asbestos abatement is taking place. 
 Two firefighters died last August after responding to a fire believed to have been started by a discarded cigarette at the former Deutsche Bank tower. The fire became difficult to control because a section of standpipe that provided water to the upper floors had been removed.
 City officials have said they believe that the missing piece of pipe would have been detected if the assigned fire company had inspected the demolition site every 15 days, as required.
 The 41-story Deutsche Bank building at 130 Liberty Street, which had been damaged in the terrorist attack of 2001, was being taken down beam by beam at the same time that asbestos was being removed.
 Firefighters found themselves inside unmapped territory, where plastic sheeting meant to contain asbestos obscured their view and stairwells were covered by plywood.
 ''It has been nearly one year since the deadly fire broke out during the deconstruction of the former Deutsche Bank building,'' Mr. Bloomberg said during a press conference inside City Hall. ''The fire, which took the lives of two of New York's bravest, underscores the inherent danger in asbestos abatement and demolition, especially when these two operations happen simultaneously.''
 Some of the changes will address conditions that contributed to the fire. Standpipes will be subject to more stringent inspections, for instance, and smoking bans at specified work sites will be strengthened.
 But the most striking differences will involve the ways that certain city agencies will communicate. Mr. Bloomberg said that the Department of Environmental Protection, Fire Department and Buildings Department will share information about work sites, exchange inspection reports and create a computerized system under the control of the Fire Department that will store a wealth of data accessible to all three agencies.
 The changes are meant to increase the efficiency of construction and demolition site inspections.
 Soon after the Deutsche Bank fatalities, high-ranking fire officials said the rule on inspections was followed inconsistently and was difficult to enforce because the Fire Department received no official notice of construction or demolition jobs from the Buildings Department. Most fire companies found out about buildings being raised or taken down in their area simply by driving though the streets surrounding their fire houses.
 The new regulations would require that the Fire Department inspect buildings shorter than 75 feet only once every 30 days and are designed to make the 15-day inspections for taller buildings more organized. Mr. Bloomberg said that the Buildings Department would formally notify the Fire Department whenever a demolition permit is issued and send a second notification when demolition begins.
 The changes will also require the Department of Environmental Protection to tell the Buildings Department and the Fire Department about asbestos abatement jobs, and call for inspectors for all three agencies to watch for conditions that might concern other agencies in addition to those that relate to their own.
 At one point in his address, Mr. Bloomberg appeared to bristle at a question from a reporter on whether the cost of implementing the new rules would be onerous.
 ''I don't think that it is a very big economic cost in terms of writing checks,'' the mayor said. ''I do think that if we don't do this, it is a terrible cost in terms of lives.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SITE PREPARATION CONTRACTORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ASBESTOS REMEDIATION (89%); CITIES (89%); ASBESTOS (89%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); FIRES (77%); SMOKING (75%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%); SMOKING BANS (50%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (90%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (90%); DBK (FRA) (90%); DBK (BIT) (90%); DBETN (JSE) (90%); DBA (ASX) (90%); DB (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2008



410 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: Decision to Join International Talks on Iran Signals a Shift in U.S. Policy

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO and STEVEN LEE MYERS; Elaine Sciolino reported from Paris, and Steven Lee Myers from Washington.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
The Bush administration's decision to send a senior American official to participate in international talks with Iran this weekend reflects a double policy shift in the struggle to resolve the impasse over the country's nuclear program.
 First, the Bush administration has decided to abandon its longstanding position that it would meet face to face with Iran only after the country suspended its uranium enrichment, as demanded by the United Nations Security Council. 
 Second, an American partner at the table injects new importance to the negotiating track of the six global powers confronting Iran -- France, Britain, Germany, Russia, China and the United States -- even though their official stance is that no substantive talks can begin until uranium enrichment stops.
 The increased engagement raised questions of whether the Bush administration would alter its stance toward Iran as radically as it did with North Korea, risking a fresh schism with conservatives who have accused the White House of granting concessions to so-called rogue states without extracting enough in return. 
 The administration sought to describe the talks as a continuation of the same strategy it has always pursued: halting Iran's nuclear activities without having to resort to military force.
 The presence of William J. Burns, the under secretary of state for political affairs, at the meeting with Saeed Jalili, Iran's nuclear negotiator, in Geneva on Saturday, will send ''a strong signal to the Iranian government that the United States is committed to diplomacy,'' the State Department spokesman, Sean McCormack, told reporters on Wednesday. Mr. McCormack insisted that there had been no change in policy.
 All of the Bush administration's diplomatic partners, as well as Javier Solana, the European Union's foreign policy chief and the leader of the talks, have been pressing Washington for some time to join in. They argue that the Iranians will take any proposal seriously only if the United States is a full partner.
 European officials hailed the decision as an important shift signaling that with just six months left, the Bush administration is seeking to avoid a war with Iran.
 ''We are very pleased by the administration's decision,'' said Cristina Gallach, Mr. Solana's spokeswoman, in a telephone interview. ''It is a clear signal to the Iranians of the engagement of the United States and its commitment to a negotiated solution. At the same time, it is a clear message to the Iranians of the seriousness of this exercise.''
 A senior European official directly involved in the diplomacy also welcomed the decision to send Mr. Burns, the State Department's third-ranking official, calling it a ''major change'' in American policy. 
 Dana M. Perino, the White House press secretary, said it was Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice who had approached the president about sending Mr. Burns. One official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that Ms. Rice had decided to test Iran's willingness to consider an international package of incentives meant to coax Iran into making concessions on its nuclear program. 
 The combination of diplomacy and increasing sanctions, including those by the European Union against Iran's largest bank last month, had produced some signals within Iran that it might being softening its stance, and Ms. Rice ''decided it was a chance to press the advantage,'' the official said. Vice President Dick Cheney and other senior aides discussed the idea as well, said the official, who was not identified because he was speaking about internal discussions.
 The extent of American involvement remains unclear. Mr. McCormack described Mr. Burns's participation in the talks as ''a one-time-only deal.'' Ms. Perino would not rule out additional meetings with the Iranians, saying it depended on the outcome of the meeting.
 Some administration officials have even discussed whether to post American officials in Iran without established diplomatic relations, as in Cuba, but have said a decision has not yet been made.
 The presence of an American at the talks this weekend may help quiet the mounting calls in both the United States and Israel for military strikes against Iran because of its recent expansion of its uranium enrichment program and its unwillingness to fully explain its suspicious past nuclear activities.
 In Tehran, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme leader, said Wednesday that his country had ''clearly defined red lines'' that had to be respected in negotiations, a reference to Iran's insistence that it has the right to peaceful nuclear energy.
 But ''if the negotiating parties enter negotiations with respect toward the Iranian nation'' and ''with the observance of these red lines, the officials of our country will negotiate,'' the ayatollah said in a speech quoted by state radio, Reuters reported. 
 Ms. Perino said that if Iran's government rejected the incentive package, the United States would seek further sanctions against the country's leaders and state-owned companies, and encourage others to do so.
 Still, the decision to attend the talks came under attack from some conservatives, who criticized the White House for not standing by its policy of refusing to negotiate until Iran suspended its uranium enrichment.
 ''Just when you think the administration is out of U-turns, they make another one,'' said John R. Bolton, a former ambassador to the United Nations, who was highly critical of the administration's decision to remove North Korea from the list of state sponsors of terrorism last month. ''This is further evidence of the administration's complete intellectual collapse.''
 From the opposite side of the spectrum, Senator John Kerry, Mr. Bush's Democratic opponent in 2004, said the decision could be ''the most welcome flip-flop in recent diplomatic history.'' 
 American and Iranian midlevel envoys, including the American ambassador to Iraq, Ryan C. Crocker, have met episodically in several face-to-face talks in Baghdad in an effort to discuss common concerns over Iraq. 
 But there have been very few other direct encounters between American and Iranian officials since relations between the countries were severed after Iran seized the American Embassy in late 1979.
 During the hostage crisis, President Carter once secretly sent Hamilton Jordan, his chief of staff, dressed in disguise as a potential negotiator.
 In 1986, in an effort to free several American hostages in Lebanon, President Reagan sent his national security adviser, Robert C. McFarlane, on a secret arms-for-hostages mission to Iran. He went bearing a key-shaped chocolate cake and a Bible that Mr. Reagan had inscribed with a New Testament passage. 
 The first President Bush was so eager to begin a dialogue with Iran that he once answered a phone call expecting to find Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, then the president, on the line. The call was a hoax. 
 There were also unannounced midlevel contacts involving American and Iranian officials on the sidelines of six-country talks on Afghanistan in Geneva several years ago. 
 A determining factor in the American decision to attend the meeting this weekend appeared to have been Iran's reaction to the fact that Ms. Rice signed a letter that was part of the package of political and economic incentives presented by the six powers in Tehran last month. 
 Iran's foreign minister, Manouchehr Mottaki, was described by participants in the meeting as being visibly stunned by her signature on the document along with those of her counterparts. 
 Mr. Mottaki formally responded to the proposal in a letter this month, addressing it to Ms. Rice as well as Mr. Solana and the five foreign ministers of the five other countries. The gesture to include Ms. Rice was seen as a sign of Iran's willingness to engage directly with the United States. 
 The Iranian letter ignored the important issue of its uranium enrichment activities but said Iran sought to ''find common ground through logical and constructive actions,'' according to officials who read it.
 Under the incentives proposal offered to Iran, the two sides would agree to a brief mutual ''freeze for freeze'' under which Iran would not increase its uranium enrichment activities and the six powers would not seek additional international sanctions. 
 For substantive negotiations to officially begin, Iran would first have to halt its production of enriched uranium, which, depending on the enrichment level, can be used to produce electricity or fuel bombs. 
 But some European officials engaged in the diplomacy conceded that negotiations had already started, and that Iran had successfully opened a negotiating process while continuing its nuclear activities. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Iran's chief nuclear negotiator, Saeed Jalili, left, will meet William J. Burns, the third-ranking State Department official.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BEHROUZ MEHRI/AFP -- GETTY IMAGES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY DMITRY KOSTYUKOV/AFP -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); CONSERVATISM (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: SAEED JALILI (89%); JAVIER SOLANA (58%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (72%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CHINA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (77%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2008



411 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: Prisoners' Homecoming a Triumph for Hezbollah

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Nada Bakri contributed reporting from Beirut.

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon 

 BODY:
Tens of thousands of people waving flags, lighting fireworks, smiling, laughing, and jostling for a view of Hezbollah's leader, Sheik Hassan Nasrallah, packed into an open square in this city's southern suburb on Wednesday night to celebrate the release of five prisoners from Israel. A banner strung over the crowd read: ''God's Achievement Through Our Hands.''
 It was classic Hezbollah, seeking to rally Lebanon behind its yellow flag, demonstrating again that death on the battlefield or capture by the enemy are never liabilities but only rallying points for the resilient Iranian-backed Shiite group that has run up a string of political victories inside Lebanon and in its battle against Israel. 
 The prisoners were swapped by Israel in exchange for the bodies of two soldiers. 
 Samir Kuntar was a 16-year-old when he was imprisoned in Israel for killing a police officer, a civilian and a child. He was 46 years old when he walked down a red carpet on Wednesday, to freedom in Lebanon, where he was greeted as a hero, dressed in a military uniform, a yellow Hezbollah scarf draped over his shoulders. Later, in Beirut, Mr. Kuntar, a Lebanese Druse, hugged and kissed Sheik Nasrallah, then addressed those gathered with defiance aimed at his longtime captors.
 ''I return from Palestine, only to go back to Palestine,'' he said, to a whistling, cheering, roaring crowd. ''I promise families in Palestine that we are coming back, me and my brothers in the resistance.''
 The audience chanted his name: ''Samir! Samir! Samir!''
 The government declared a national day of celebration, closing all government offices and banks, and many private businesses closed as well. The president, the prime minister and others tried to present the swap as a triumph for Lebanon, not just Hezbollah, which is considered a terrorist group by the United States. But there was no disguising the fact that, in the eyes of its followers and many others, Hezbollah had scored a historic victory. 
 Sheik Nasrallah had ordered the kidnapping of the two Israelis with the express purpose of using them as bargaining chips to free all Lebanese from Israeli jails. 
 That cross-border raid prompted a huge Israeli invasion that not only failed to dislodge Hezbollah militants, but also allowed Sheik Nasrallah to argue -- persuasively to some Lebanese, even beyond his traditional Shiite base -- that the group was the strongest defender of the nation. Since the war, Hezbollah has strengthened its political and military grip on much of Lebanon.
 ''This people, this nation and this country, which gave a clear image today, cannot be defeated,'' said the sheik, who rarely appears in public, for security reasons. 
 The release followed by less than a week Hezbollah's success in winning another important victory. It gained veto power over government decisions by increasing its representation in the cabinet. From top to bottom, the formal powers and symbols of the state, the president, the prime minister, the speaker of Parliament, the Lebanese flag, stood beside and behind Hezbollah on Wednesday as the prisoners were welcomed home. 
 In Lebanon, power is divided among the major sects, Sunnis, Shiites and Christians. Historically, Sunnis and Christians were more powerful forces, with the Shiites often marginalized. That has changed as Hezbollah has grown into a force more powerful than the state itself, both militarily, politically and socially. This prisoner release, and the fact that Mr. Kuntar is a Druse -- one of the more influential of Lebanon's 18 religious sects -- only adds to that growing credibility.
 ''The result is that Hezbollah emerges as a force in Lebanon that can deliver,'' Amal Saad-Ghorayeb, a political analyst in Lebanon and an expert on Hezbollah, wrote on the openDemocracy Web site. ''Thereby perpetuating an important political dynamic -- of the nonstate actor which functions as the de facto state versus the state nonactor which merely enjoys the status of the de jure state.''
 If Israel's goal of the release was to begin to strip away the issues that Hezbollah uses to justify keeping its weapons -- as some political analysts in the region speculated -- Sheik Nasrallah did not sound concerned. After leaving the stage, in remarks broadcast to the audience, he said that he would be willing to accept a diplomatic solution to the remaining land disputes with Israel -- and with Lebanese factions that are opposed to Hezbollah keeping its weapons.
 For some here, though, recent wounds were too raw, and the distrust of Hezbollah too deep, to savor the apparent triumph. Last May, Hezbollah turned its guns on residents of Beirut during a spasm of sectarian violence. It routed pro-government forces with ease, forcing a compromise that gave them the veto power in the government. 
 ''I don't feel like I am part of this,'' said Rami Abdullah, 34, as he sat behind the cash register of his nut shop in the Sunni neighborhood of Tariq Jadideh. ''It is not going to restore their image. The resistance should have stayed the resistance against the enemy.''
 Lebanon's new so-called national unity government had its first meeting Wednesday, the first government in which Hezbollah and its allies have veto power. But the country has far to go to resolve the social, political and economic problems that it faces, and those daunting realities kept many from celebrating.
 ''I just want to live in a safe country,'' said Richard Fahd, 35, as he strolled through the center of the city, where there was no sign of celebration. ''I don't care about a prisoner exchange. This doesn't concern me.''
 But it was quite a different mood not far away, in Dahiya, the southern suburb and Hezbollah stronghold that was flattened by Israeli bombs in the 2006 war. 
 ''Nasrallah and Hezbollah are divine,'' said Marwa Moussa, 24, as she waited hours in the thick heat of the summer for the celebration to begin. ''They can achieve what no one else can.''
 All day long, revelers lined the airport road where it cut through Dahiya, waving the flags of Hezbollah and its allies. They roared around in groups on motor scooters, blasted music from pickup trucks and huge speakers, almost always the stirring martial tunes of the Hezbollah men's choir. Later, at night, the road was near gridlock, packed with supporters of Hezbollah.
 ''It is a great achievement, it makes me feel so proud,'' said Khadija Mouad, 50, seated in one of thousands of plastic chairs placed in the square for the celebration. ''Hezbollah is the party that always achieves great accomplishments.''
 Earlier the prisoners had been greeted by a crowd of thousands along the border with Israel. The prisoners smiled and waved as confetti fell. They flew by helicopter to the airport in Beirut, where they were greeted by the new president, Michel Suleiman, the prime minister, Fouad Siniora, and the speaker of Parliament, Nabih Berri. Then the convoy proceeded on to Dahiya, where to the surprise of those gathered, Sheik Nasrallah walked onto stage. He hugged and kissed each of the freed prisoners then stood beside Mr. Kantar as he addressed the crowd.
 ''I just came to say 'Hi' and congratulate you on this victory.'' Sheik Nasrallah said to the crowd. ''As we have said in the year 2000, the time of defeat is long gone. And today is the time of victory. These people have proved to the world, to their friends and their enemies, that they cannot be defeated.''
 For the most part, the day was more about the moment, the celebration, the chance to point to those killed in battle -- and those freed. Hezbollah dubbed the event Operation Radwan, after Imad Mughniyeh, also known as Hadj Radwan, a senior Hezbollah official assassinated in June in Damascus, Syria. ''Operation Radwan'' read the banners strung along the airport road. ''To free the prisoners and the martyrs. A sign for freedom. Victory from God.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 1, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on July 17 about the release by Israel of five jailed Lebanese men in a prisoner swap with Hezbollah misstated the date of the assassination in Syria of Imad Mughniyeh, a senior Hezbollah official who the militant group said was killed by Israel. The assassination was in February, not June.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ISRAEL Prime Minister Ehud Olmert consoled the widow of Sgt. First Class Ehud Goldwasser. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AVI OHAYON/ISRAELI GOVERNMENT PRESS OFFICE, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (pg.A1)
LEBANON: Samir Kuntar, left, released by Israel, embraced his brother Bassam in Beirut. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOHAMED AZAKIR/REUTERS)
 Sheik Hassan Nasrallah, Hezbollah's leader, greeted a crowd in Beirut on Wednesday with Samir Kuntar standing beside him. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN DENTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEZBOLLAH (94%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORISM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); ARMED FORCES (68%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (63%); VETO (63%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (94%)

PERSON: HASSAN NASRALLAH (89%); EHUD OLMERT (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (94%) ISRAEL (97%); LEBANON (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2008



412 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Las Vegas Envy

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
You'll remember that Massachusetts was the first state to legalize gay marriages, thanks to a court ruling in 2004. Everyone was not thrilled. There were petitions and attempts to pass constitutional amendments. Mitt Romney, who was evolving from liberal Republican governor to desperate Republican presidential candidate, declared his determination to keep Massachusetts from becoming ''the Las Vegas of same-sex marriages.'' 
 He grabbed hold of an antique law barring marriages of out-of-state couples whose own states would not let them be wed to make sure that nobody gay snuck over the state line in search of matrimony. 
 This week, the State Senate voted to repeal the law that Romney liked so much. We would tell you about the dramatic debate, except that it happened on a voice vote with no objections. The bill now goes to the House, which is also expected to pass it.
 What changed? Well, with the economy the way it is, becoming the Las Vegas of anything whatsoever began to sound like a good deal. California has been raking in money from weddings of out-of-state gay couples since a court made same-sex marriage legal there. 
 In Massachusetts, a study commissioned by the state, with the optimism of such studies everywhere, predicted that getting rid of that old law could create hundreds of jobs, millions in tax revenue and tons and tons of local business for hotels and restaurants and party planners. As an advocate predicted reasonably, when a gay person decides to come to Massachusetts and get married, ''most won't come alone.''
 The repeal was also about racial justice. In a year when we've been arguing about whether women or blacks deserve a presidential nominee more, it's good to remember that when one discriminated-against group is lifted up, everybody tends to rise. The law against marrying out-of-staters was originally passed in 1913 during a national outcry over the black boxing champion Jack Johnson's marriage to a white woman. Massachusetts did not ban black-white unions, but the state wanted to make sure that it did not turn itself into the Las Vegas of interracial marriage. Now this kind of thinking is seen as repulsive. As a result, gay Americans benefited.
 After four years, same-sex marriage has also begun to feel normal in Massachusetts. It's not something that comes up in conversation much anymore. There is no greater force against bigotry than the moment when something becomes so routine that you stop noticing it. 
 One state lawmaker who had originally supported a constitutional amendment against gay marriage changed her mind and voted against it when the measure went down to a final defeat in 2007. She told Pam Belluck of The Times about one of her older constituents who had nagged her to get rid of same-sex unions then turned around and lobbied her to keep them. A gay couple, she said, had moved into her neighborhood: ''They help me with my lawn, and if there can't be marriage in Massachusetts, they'll leave.''
 My 83-year-old mother, who I have always thought of as conservative on matters like sex, has a home helper, Joe Wallace, who is gay. To say they hit it off would be a deep, deep understatement. It gradually became clear to my siblings and me that there were any number of activities that my mother would rather do with Joe than with us. Shopping, for sure. Having late-night telephone discussions about taking pills was another. Also preparing for bridge parties.
 ''Joe made menus,'' my sister informed me.
 My mother has begun to make inquiries about whether anybody is interested in taking her to the next Cincinnati Pride Alive Parade.
 Back in 1970, when Americans were still adjusting to the Supreme Court ruling that people of different races had a constitutional right to wed, someone suggested to President Richard Nixon that same-sex marriages would be next.
 ''I can't go that far; that's the year 2000,'' Nixon rejoined.
 Nixon was a little early, but extremely prescient, especially when you think of the other things people predicted for our current era: flying cars, self-cleaning windows, 20-hour workweeks. An early 20th-century novel depicted New York City circa 2000 as ''one huge garden, pierced here and there by slender towers or giant cupolas.''
 It is very possible that we'll be having a number of depressing discussions about gay rights over the next several months. Just this week we learned that California is going to have a constitutional amendment on the ballot that would bar same-sex marriages. And John McCain was unable to come up with a clear position on whether gays should be allowed to adopt.
 But the forces of history are only on one side here. There's going to be a long-term happy ending. Although I'm afraid we'll never get those giant cupolas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (92%); GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PETITIONS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); RACE & RACISM (68%); RESTAURANTS (64%); BOXING (61%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%); JOB CREATION (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2008



413 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Economic Fears Slice Oil Prices For Second Day

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD and MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Steven R. Weisman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Concerns about a slowing economy and rising inflation pushed oil prices down sharply for a second day on Wednesday, an unusual dip in the oil price rally that began more than six years ago. 
 The two-day decline totaled more than $10.50 a barrel, but analysts cautioned that it was still unclear how far prices would fall and that the respite may be temporary. 
 The drop in oil price contributed to a jump on Wall Street, with most major markets rising more than 2.5 percent. Investors were also buoyed by news that Wells Fargo planned to increase its dividend, easing some concerns about the stability of banks. 
 The drop in oil was also caused by new evidence that Americans were driving less because of gas prices, which hit a record of $4.11 a gallon, according to a nationwide survey by the motorist group AAA. 
 Gas prices have jumped 35 percent in the last year and were a big reason inflation rose 1.1 percent in June, the government said on Wednesday.
 That increase caps a year in which inflation has surged to proportions seen by some as threatening the stability of the American economy. In the last 12 months, the Consumer Price Index has risen 5 percent, the biggest annual jump since May 1991.
 ''The U.S. economy is becoming weaker and is unable to sustain oil consumption at these prices,'' said James Crandell, a commodity analyst at Lehman Brothers. ''But it is still too early to call this a tipping point because of some major risks we might face this summer, like hurricanes or geopolitical events.''
 The concern about rising costs was echoed by Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, who provided a bleak assessment of the American economy over two days of testimony to Congress, warning that inflation posed a significant risk to the nation's economic outlook.
 Mr. Bernanke told lawmakers Wednesday that he saw increased risk of inflation. ''The rising prices of energy and some other commodities have led to a sharp pickup in inflation,'' he said, ''and some measures of inflation expectations have moved higher.''
 The Consumer Price Index report, released Wednesday, reinforces what many economists, including those at the Fed, have warned about for months: Americans are being forced to pay significantly higher prices, even as the job market weakens and big employers announce plans to lay off thousands of workers. 
 ''There's not enough lipstick to put on this pig,'' said Richard Moody, an economist at the real estate firm Mission Residential. ''No matter how one slices and dices the C.P.I. data, the bottom line is that U.S. workers are falling farther and farther behind.''
 A weekly report by the Energy Department showed that commercial oil inventories, which were expected to fall, rose instead last week as more oil went into storage rather than being refined and sold at the pump. 
 Oil futures fell $4.14, or 3 percent, to $134.60 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. That followed a $6.44 drop on Tuesday, the biggest one-day decline since 1991. Last week, oil reached a record, during trading hours, above $147 a barrel.
 Some analysts said oil prices might have reached a peak last week, with big customers like airlines and refiners balking at paying close to $150 a barrel.
 ''We're definitely seeing a turnaround in the market, at least in the short term,'' said David Kirsch, an energy analyst at PFC Energy, a consulting group in Washington. ''A lot of quarters are concluding that oil is just too expensive, particularly in this economic environment.''
 But while demand is falling in the United States and Western Europe, oil consumption is still expected to rise this year because of growth in China, India and the Middle East. That growth still provides a floor for oil prices.
 The drop in prices was exacerbated by easing geopolitical tensions that had sustained last week's gains, particularly surrounding Iran, OPEC's second-biggest oil producer, as well as more positive news from Nigeria, where production resumed after recent interruptions.
 John Kilduff, an energy analyst at the brokerage firm MF Global, said the news about direct talks between the United States and Iran and the unexpected increase in oil inventories, were ''a one-two punch for bears'' that could signal a steeper drop in prices in coming weeks.
 Oil prices have risen more than sevenfold since 2002 as fast-growing demand in developing countries has outpaced new oil supplies. That has led to efforts in Congress to address runaway energy costs by allowing more offshore drilling to increase domestic supplies, for example.
 In the United States, gasoline demand fell by 5.2 percent last week, according to a survey by MasterCard, the 12th consecutive weekly drop. Since the beginning of the year, gasoline demand has fallen by about 1 percent, compared with the same period last year.
 As a result of higher gas prices and reduced demand, refiners are using less oil. Instead of falling as refiners draw on their inventories as is common at this time of year, oil reserves have been building up. Oil inventories rose 2.95 million barrels last week, to 296.9 million barrels, the Energy Department said Wednesday. Analysts had expected inventories to drop by about 2.2 million barrels.
 A day after offering a generally bleak assessment of the economy in testimony before the Senate, Mr. Bernanke sought on Wednesday to assure members of a House committee that the economy would recover. 
 ''We will work our way through these financial storms,'' he told a questioner. ''We will work our way through this cyclical movement that we have. And the economy will return to good growth. But we just have a few things to work through on the way to doing that.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); WEATHER (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); TESTIMONY (69%); EMPLOYMENT (60%); LAYOFFS (60%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (71%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2008



414 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1409 words

HEADLINE: Merrill Lynch Ends Talks On Moving To Ground Zero

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI. 
An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to Merrill Lynch's role in the project: It was not the only private tenant to express strong interest in taking space in one of the towers.

 BODY:
Merrill Lynch & Company, the financially ailing investment brokerage, has terminated talks with the Port Authority and the developer Larry A. Silverstein over moving its headquarters to one of the new office towers planned for ground zero. The company's decision is a major setback for the Port Authority and Mr. Silverstein, who had hoped to revive commercial interest in the 16-acre site by luring Merrill as an anchor tenant for one of the four office towers to be built there.
Merrill was one of the first private companies to express strong interest in any of the towers. Concerns about stirring memories of 9/11 and the long-term noise and construction at the site have discouraged potential tenants, state officials say.
With few private tenants in sight, the economy teetering on recession and lenders reluctant to finance speculative office space, real estate executives and some officials of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey say that Mr. Silverstein, who is required to build three of the four towers, may find it hard to raise money for construction. 
The authority is responsible for the other office tower, the $3 billion Freedom Tower, now under construction at the southeast corner of Vesey and West Streets.
The new problems for Mr. Silverstein also set the stage for potentially acrimonious negotiations with the Port Authority, which owns the land, over his construction deadlines.
On June 30, the authority publicly acknowledged for the first time that the $16 billion effort to rebuild the World Trade Center was potentially years behind schedule and billions of dollars over budget. Three days later, Merrill formally notified the authority and the developer of its decision to terminate talks with Mr. Silverstein.
''It does seem to me that events have conspired to present Larry with a challenge,'' said Michael T. Cohen, chairman of GVA Williams, a real estate broker.
After bargaining for months over tens of millions of dollars in concessions and tax breaks for a 71-story tower, Merrill said in its letter that ''we are too far apart to continue the process. Accordingly, we wish to terminate further discussions of the proposed transaction.''
Selena Morris, a Merrill Lynch spokeswoman, declined to comment.
But Mr. Silverstein's company and the Port Authority acknowledged that for the second time in a year, Merrill had opened and closed negotiations for a new headquarters for its 11,000 employees. ''We wish Merrill Lynch great success and hope they decide to keep their headquarters in Lower Manhattan, their historic home, for many years,'' said Janno Lieber, who oversees the trade center project for Silverstein Properties.
Merrill currently occupies 2.6 million square feet of space west of the trade center site, at the World Financial Center, where its lease expires in 2013. They have resumed negotiations with their current landlord, Brookfield Properties.
Some officials have continued what they describe as informal talks with Merrill in the hope of reviving the deal, perhaps with the company moving to ground zero in 2018 instead of 2013.
''While the Port Authority and Silverstein Properties continue discussions with Merrill Lynch, at this time we remain far apart on economic terms,'' said Stephen Sigmund, a Port Authority spokesman.
But analysts and real estate executives say Merrill's decision had more to do with its financial condition than with the terms of any deal or the delays at ground zero. The company is expected to announce on Thursday a big quarterly loss and billions of dollars in new write-downs in the value of its assets. After taking roughly $30 billion in write-downs earlier this year, the firm appears to have adopted a downsizing strategy, a mix of layoffs and the sale of some of its most important holdings, like a major stake in Bloomberg L.P.
Merrill has been casting about for a new headquarters for well over a year. Last October, the firm was on the verge of announcing that it would leave downtown for a new $4 billion skyscraper in Midtown, despite far less expensive options at the trade center site with one of Mr. Silverstein's planned towers, or with its current landlord, when the firm became engulfed in the mortgage crisis. It canceled the move after reporting its first quarterly loss in six years and the first of billions of dollars in write-downs.
Merrill initially signaled that it would extend its lease at the World Financial Center for at least five years. But this spring, Merrill executives reopened negotiations with Mr. Silverstein and the Port Authority about building Tower 3 at the trade center site. The company's executives bargained hard for a generous deal.
Eager to show some momentum for the office towers on the site, the authority ultimately reduced its price for a long-term lease of the land by about 25 percent to $510 million, from $690 million last year.
But the deal would have required Mr. Silverstein to sell his development rights to the building to Merrill, and his asking price, $340 million, was unacceptably high, according to Port Authority and Merrill executives who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the talks and did not want to pick a fight with Mr. Silverstein.
Merrill's landlord, Brookfield Properties, argued that it was illogical for the authority to offer incentives to lure a tenant from one government project (the World Financial Center) to another (ground zero). But authority officials were convinced that Merrill's deal would help entice other companies to the site and permit them to declare a victory at a time when the rebuilding effort has encountered delays.
In lieu of private sector tenants, city, state and federal agencies have committed to leasing 2.2 million square feet of the combined 10 million square feet of office space planned at the Freedom Tower and Mr. Silverstein's towers.
Beijing Vantone Real Estate is the first private company to agree to move to the site, signing a nonbinding agreement earlier this year to lease space in the Freedom Tower. JPMorgan Chase has a nonbinding agreement to build a tower south of ground zero, where the former Deutsche Bank Building is being demolished. But JPMorgan recently acquired Bear Stearns and it is unclear whether that project will proceed.
All of that has implications for Mr. Silverstein, who must build three towers with a total of 7.5 million square feet by 2013, at an estimated cost of over $6 billion, under his 2006 agreement with the authority, which owns the land. He has about $1.3 billion in insurance money and the ability to use tax-exempt Liberty Bonds, although they expire at the end of 2009.
Under the terms of his agreement with the Port Authority, Mr. Silverstein faces default on all three building sites if he fails to build even one of the towers on schedule.
''We are confident in the long-term viability of the office market at the site, and continue to make progress on construction and to operate under the existing development agreement,'' Mr. Sigmund of the Port Authority said.
But executives who work with Mr. Silverstein complain that the Port Authority's inability to complete other projects at ground zero, like the adjacent transit hub or the rebuilding of Greenwich Street, will make it hard for him to complete his buildings.
Some real estate and authority executives expect Mr. Silverstein to demand a rent discount, a deadline extension and, perhaps, the elimination of the so-called cross-default clause.
Mr. Lieber of Silverstein Properties said in a statement that his company ''is focused on working with government to resolve the design and construction issues identified by the Port Authority in its recent report to the Governor, as well as ongoing uncertainties about the Port Authority's schedule to complete vital site infrastructure. It is urgent that these issues be resolved in order to accelerate the rebuilding of the entire World Trade Center site.''
Correction: July 21, 2008, Monday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
An article on Thursday about Merrill Lynch's decision to end talks over moving its headquarters to one of the new towers planned for ground zero omitted the name of the first private company that has agreed to move there. It is Beijing Vantone Real Estate, which earlier this year signed a nonbinding agreement to lease space in the Freedom Tower. A chart in some editions also omitted the company's name.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The World Trade Center site, shown in June, has been much discussed in the years since the Sept. 11 attack, but so far there has been very little to show for it.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASHLEY GILBERTSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) CHART: A Shrinking List of Tenants at Ground Zero: Merrill Lynch has decided not to move to one of the planned towers at the 16-acre ground zero site. That leaves only government agencies committed thus far to occupying the buildings. Chart details various possible residents for ground zero. (pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); PORT AUTHORITIES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (98%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%); BROOKFIELD OFFICE PROPERTIES INC (50%)

TICKER: BPO (TSX) (50%); BPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (98%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (98%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (98%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (98%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (98%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (98%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (50%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (50%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2010



415 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: For State Senate's Former Leader, Pension Is Better Than Salary

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Senator Joseph L. Bruno, who led the State Senate for 14 years, has offered many reasons why he is leaving the Senate by the end of the week after a public career of four decades.
Mr. Bruno, 79, has said that he wants to spend more time with his family, including a new great-granddaughter; and that he wants to return to the private sector (''I don't want to be in a not-for-profit,'' he said in a radio interview on Wednesday); and that he has wearied of the scrutiny accompanying a two-year federal investigation of his business interests.
There is another factor to consider, though. 
Mr. Bruno, a Republican, is likely to get a significant raise from the state by retiring.
He is paid the base legislative salary of $79,500, but his pension, which is a percentage of the average of his three highest-salary years, will be $90,000 to $100,000, because until June he received an extra $41,000 a year for being majority leader, according to the state comptroller's office. He would be giving up somewhere in the neighborhood of $1,300 a month, before taxes, by remaining in office.
He already received, in a lump sum earlier this year, most of the $41,000 for his role as majority leader and temporary president of the Senate.
Because he stepped down from his leadership role late last month, the balance of that bonus is likely to go to his successor as Senate majority leader, Dean G. Skelos.
John McArdle, a spokesman for Mr. Bruno, said the pension issue ''had no bearing on his decision to leave.''
Mr. Bruno can defer some of his pension payments to a beneficiary who could receive payments in the future, but Mr. McArdle said, ''I don't think he's even looked at that.''
Not that Mr. Bruno will be relying solely on his pension. He has made it clear in recent days that he has other plans.
''I'm not the kind of guy who's going to go off and retire and just play with horses and golf,'' he said at a public event on Tuesday. He has said he would like to go to work for one of the many technology companies in and around his Albany-area district, many of which have received state aid at his discretion.
''It can get depressing if I hang around, for Pete's sake,'' said Mr. Bruno, who has rarely missed a chance in his long career to land a joke. ''I push the buttons, and nobody's answering. That's not a good thing.''
Mr. Bruno was eligible to be credited with 41.73 years of service, according to the comptroller's office. He also helped enact legislation in 2000 that allows a relatively small number of the longest-serving retirees to receive extra credit for, in his case, an additional two years of service.
The size of state pension and benefit packages has long been a point of contention for fiscal conservatives. Public benefits in New York seem to be increasingly moving in opposition to private-sector benefits; the former seem perennially enriched by lawmakers eager for union support, and the latter seem starved by globalization and economic turmoil, among other factors.
On Tuesday, for example, General Motors announced that it was eliminating health care benefits for all of its salaried retirees. New York State, however, has the kind of benefits that retirees of the Big Three automakers in Detroit used to take for granted in a different era.
Retired lawmakers typically pay premiums just under $50 a month for health coverage, according to the State Department of Civil Service, and $5 co-payments for generic drugs.
''There needs to be a larger examination of overall compensation of public-sector employees,'' said Elizabeth Lynam, deputy research director for the Citizens Budget Commission. Lawmakers, she added, ''have been sweetening it and putting on bells and whistles, rather than stepping back and taking a look at the larger picture.''
Mr. Bruno can also draw on his $1.7 million campaign account, a source that current and former lawmakers frequently use to pay for meals, hotels and a variety of expenses, so long as they are at least loosely tied to political purposes. In Mr. Bruno's case, it has also served as his de facto legal defense fund.
Mr. Bruno said this week, with tongue in cheek, that he would miss critiques by the press.
''It's a very emotional time. When people abuse me, I'm kind of used to that, and so that toughens me up,'' he said. ''If you really want to make me cry,'' he added, ''start saying nice things.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The office of Joseph L. Bruno, who retires from the State Senate on Friday, was being emptied Wednesday at the Legislative Office Building. His successor is Dean G. Skelos of Long Island.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2010



416 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Car Buyers Downsize, but Spend Big on Options

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Consumers used to buy small cars for a simple reason: they were cheap. A decade ago, many budget-minded shoppers turned down even options like air-conditioning, power windows and compact disc players to keep the price low.
Now people of all income levels are buying small cars to pinch pennies at the gas pump, but they are not scrimping on creature comforts. Instead, they are spending hundreds or even thousands of dollars on options, like heated leather seats and high-end entertainment systems, usually found in luxury cars. 
That is adding up to some rare good news for Detroit automakers, which have long had trouble earning a profit on small cars. By contrast, they make as much as $10,000 on each big pickup or sport utility vehicle they sell. But consumer tastes have shifted rapidly as gas has climbed over $4 a gallon.
Sales of Ford's big F-series pickup have fallen nearly 23 percent this year, for example, while sales of the compact Focus, its most inexpensive and fuel-efficient car at American dealerships, have risen 27 percent. From April to June, two-thirds of the Focuses sold were sporty SES models, priced at a $2,170 premium over the base model, according to data from the Power Information Network, a division of J. D. Power & Associates.
Bev Dickinson, an insurance saleswoman from suburban Detroit, recently bought a $20,000 Focus equipped with the Sync digital entertainment system, Sirius satellite radio, a power sunroof and heated leather seats.
''I was absolutely not going to have anything but leather,'' said Mrs. Dickinson, who previously drove two larger Fords, including an Expedition sport utility vehicle.
Small-car buyers often pay $600 for a sunroof, $500 for satellite radio or $400 for a hands-free phone system. Some even spend $300 for colorful interior lights.
In this new math for the auto industry, gas mileage often trumps sticker price for consumers.
''Affordability is not so much the issue as fuel economy,'' said George Pipas, Ford's chief sales analyst. ''Just because you want more fuel efficiency doesn't mean you don't want a moonroof or leather interior.''
Among the growing ranks of small-car buyers are baby boomers who previously toted their families in well-equipped minivans and S.U.V.'s. Now, with gas above $4 a gallon and their children grown, they want nothing to do with such a large vehicle but have grown accustomed to its luxuries.
The price Americans are paying for a subcompact car has increased an average $2,532 since 2004, nearly double the $1,253 increase for all vehicles, according to the Power Information Network data.
Transaction prices for compact cars have increased an average of $2,370 over the same period and $3,055 for the segment's top seller, the Honda Civic.
Perhaps the biggest success in the small car segment, in terms of persuading buyers to upgrade, is BMW's Mini Cooper, which starts as low as $18,050 but typically sells for at least 40 percent more than that. BMW offers myriad options on the Cooper that can take the price well above $40,000.
Lenny Schafer, a landscape contractor in Clinton Township, Mich., is looking to buy a Mini Cooper S convertible that sells for nearly $30,000, and gets much better gas mileage than his family's S.U.V. and pickup truck.
''If you do the math, financially it's not worth it,'' Mr. Schafer said. ''But we figured if we buy something that's small and fun we can achieve some gas savings. It just kills me personally when I take a ride by myself and I'm getting 10 miles to the gallon and I have nothing in the back.''
While buyers are adding options, tight inventories of small cars have also allowed dealers to charge full price where they previously had to provide discounts. Only a few years ago, some Chevrolet dealers actually gave away a tiny Aveo or Cavalier to people who bought a pickup truck.
Many dealers, having realized that small-car shoppers are willing to buy higher trim levels and optional features, are stocking their lots with more upgraded vehicles. That is particularly true for hot sellers that have waiting lists, such as the Toyota Prius hybrid and the Honda Civic.
D. J. Smith, the sales manager at Panama City Toyota in the Florida Panhandle, said shoppers were so eager to get one of these hard-to-find cars that they would settle for whatever was available, usually at a higher price, so they did not have to keep driving an S.U.V. -- and paying $100 to fill its gas tank -- all summer.
The $11,550 sticker price on a basic Yaris hatchback, Toyota's smallest car, gives his dealership $340 in profit, he said. But that more than doubles, to $800, for a top-of-the-line Yaris priced around $17,000.
''I've never seen anything like it,'' Mr. Smith said. ''You don't have too many people saying, 'It has to be white with a power package and it has to have Michelin tires.' Instead it's, 'What do you have and can I get it by the end of the month? Just get me out of my Tahoe.'''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lenny Schafer at Motor City Mini in Shelby Township, Mich. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1) CHARTS: SMALL BUT LOADED: As the price of gas has soared, consumers are buying more fuel-efficient small cars to save money at the pump. But they are spending hundreds of dollars on options like heated leather seats. (Sources: MotorIntelligence.com, Power Information Network)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); FAMILY (77%); PICKUP TRUCKS (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (71%); SATELLITE RADIO (69%)

COMPANY: SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (54%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (54%)

TICKER: SIRI (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (54%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (54%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2010



417 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Using Bombs to Stave Off War

BYLINE: By BENNY MORRIS. 
Benny Morris, a professor of Middle Eastern history at Ben-Gurion University, is the author, most recently, of ''1948: A History of the First Arab-Israeli War.''

DATELINE: Li-On, Israel 

 BODY:
 ISRAEL will almost surely attack Iran's nuclear sites in the next four to seven months -- and the leaders in Washington and even Tehran should hope that the attack will be successful enough to cause at least a significant delay in the Iranian production schedule, if not complete destruction, of that country's nuclear program. Because if the attack fails, the Middle East will almost certainly face a nuclear war -- either through a subsequent pre-emptive Israeli nuclear strike or a nuclear exchange shortly after Iran gets the bomb.
 It is in the interest of neither Iran nor the United States (nor, for that matter, the rest of the world) that Iran be savaged by a nuclear strike, or that both Israel and Iran suffer such a fate. We know what would ensue: a traumatic destabilization of the Middle East with resounding political and military consequences around the globe, serious injury to the West's oil supply and radioactive pollution of the earth's atmosphere and water. 
 But should Israel's conventional assault fail to significantly harm or stall the Iranian program, a ratcheting up of the Iranian-Israeli conflict to a nuclear level will most likely follow. Every intelligence agency in the world believes the Iranian program is geared toward making weapons, not to the peaceful applications of nuclear power. And, despite the current talk of additional economic sanctions, everyone knows that such measures have so far led nowhere and are unlikely to be applied with sufficient scope to cause Iran real pain, given Russia's and China's continued recalcitrance and Western Europe's (and America's) ambivalence in behavior, if not in rhetoric. Western intelligence agencies agree that Iran will reach the ''point of no return'' in acquiring the capacity to produce nuclear weapons in one to four years.
 Which leaves the world with only one option if it wishes to halt Iran's march toward nuclear weaponry: the military option, meaning an aerial assault by either the United States or Israel. Clearly, America has the conventional military capacity to do the job, which would involve a protracted air assault against Iran's air defenses followed by strikes on the nuclear sites themselves. But, as a result of the Iraq imbroglio, and what is rapidly turning into the Afghan imbroglio, the American public has little enthusiasm for wars in the Islamic lands. This curtails the White House's ability to begin yet another major military campaign in pursuit of a goal that is not seen as a vital national interest by many Americans. 
 Which leaves only Israel -- the country threatened almost daily with destruction by Iran's leaders. Thus the recent reports about Israeli plans and preparations to attack Iran (the period from Nov. 5 to Jan. 19 seems the best bet, as it gives the West half a year to try the diplomatic route but ensures that Israel will have support from a lame-duck White House). 
 The problem is that Israel's military capacities are far smaller than America's and, given the distances involved, the fact that the Iranian sites are widely dispersed and underground, and Israel's inadequate intelligence, it is unlikely that the Israeli conventional forces, even if allowed the use of Jordanian and Iraqi airspace (and perhaps, pending American approval, even Iraqi air strips) can destroy or perhaps significantly delay the Iranian nuclear project.
 Nonetheless, Israel, believing that its very existence is at stake -- and this is a feeling shared by most Israelis across the political spectrum -- will certainly make the effort. Israel's leaders, from Prime Minister Ehud Olmert down, have all explicitly stated that an Iranian bomb means Israel's destruction; Iran will not be allowed to get the bomb.
 The best outcome will be that an Israeli conventional strike, whether failed or not -- and, given the Tehran regime's totalitarian grip, it may not be immediately clear how much damage the Israeli assault has caused -- would persuade the Iranians to halt their nuclear program, or at least persuade the Western powers to significantly increase the diplomatic and economic pressure on Iran.
 But the more likely result is that the international community will continue to do nothing effective and that Iran will speed up its efforts to produce the bomb that can destroy Israel. The Iranians will also likely retaliate by attacking Israel's cities with ballistic missiles (possibly topped with chemical or biological warheads); by prodding its local clients, Hezbollah and Hamas, to unleash their own armories against Israel; and by activating international Muslim terrorist networks against Israeli and Jewish -- and possibly American -- targets worldwide (though the Iranians may at the last moment be wary of provoking American military involvement). 
 Such a situation would confront Israeli leaders with two agonizing, dismal choices. One is to allow the Iranians to acquire the bomb and hope for the best -- meaning a nuclear standoff, with the prospect of mutual assured destruction preventing the Iranians from actually using the weapon. The other would be to use the Iranian counterstrikes as an excuse to escalate and use the only means available that will actually destroy the Iranian nuclear project: Israel's own nuclear arsenal. 
 Given the fundamentalist, self-sacrificial mindset of the mullahs who run Iran, Israel knows that deterrence may not work as well as it did with the comparatively rational men who ran the Kremlin and White House during the cold war. They are likely to use any bomb they build, both because of ideology and because of fear of Israeli nuclear pre-emption. Thus an Israeli nuclear strike to prevent the Iranians from taking the final steps toward getting the bomb is probable. The alternative is letting Tehran have its bomb. In either case, a Middle Eastern nuclear holocaust would be in the cards.
 Iran's leaders would do well to rethink their gamble and suspend their nuclear program. Bar this, the best they could hope for is that Israel's conventional air assault will destroy their nuclear facilities. To be sure, this would mean thousands of Iranian casualties and international humiliation. But the alternative is an Iran turned into a nuclear wasteland. Some Iranians may believe that this is a worthwhile gamble if the prospect is Israel's demise. But most Iranians probably don't.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TUCKER NICHOLS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); RELIGION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) EARTH (55%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); ISRAEL (96%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



418 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: Solar Energy Projects

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 The Bureau of Land Management's decision to lift its moratorium on solar development was a much-needed correction to bad public policy that put thousands of jobs at risk (''U.S. Lifts Moratorium on New Solar Projects,'' news article, July 3). 
 Clearly, the decision makers at B.L.M. have heard the voices of the 94 percent of Americans who believe that solar energy should play a prominent role in our nation's energy future. Now that this moratorium has been reversed, it is essential that land management officials expedite a permitting process that B.L.M. itself estimates is holding up enough solar development to power 20 million American households.
 More than 80 million acres of public lands and waters are currently leased for oil and gas development in the United States, with more environmentally sensitive land being opened up for fossil fuel development every year. Meanwhile, not a single solar permit has been issued nor a single acre leased on federal land for solar energy development -- energy that could help our country fight global warming while expanding our economy. 
 With consumers facing rapidly increasing energy costs, the United States cannot afford to delay solar projects any longer.
 Rhone Resch President Solar Energy Industries Association Washington, July 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (94%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); GLOBAL WARMING (65%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (84%); SOLAR ENERGY INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



419 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: A Daughter of India's Underclass Rises on Votes That Cross Caste Lines

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: LUCKNOW, India 

 BODY:
Kumari Mayawati, a daughter of so-called untouchables and India's most maverick politician, stunned the nation last year when she won majority control of India's largest state with an inventive political coalition that fused votes from up and down the ancient Hindu caste pyramid. 
 Now, with national elections only months away, Ms. Mayawati has emerged as the most important low-caste politician in India's history, and she is asserting herself as a rainbow coalition leader, a woman whom all Indians can trust to be their prime minister one day. How far she will rise remains to be seen. But there is no disputing her importance.
 While the advance of so-called low-caste, or Dalit, politicians like Ms. Mayawati has reshaped Indian politics for 20 years, no one from her social rank has so shaken up the country's traditional political order. Dalits represent roughly 16 percent of the population and have traditionally been shunted to the lowest rungs of Indian society. 
 Ms. Mayawati leads the government of Uttar Pradesh, a sprawling northern state with a population of more than 160 million. Her admirers see the rise and reinvention of this unmarried outcaste woman of 52 as a triumph of India's democracy over its deeply conservative and stratified traditions. 
 Her detractors see her as a symbol of an increasingly crude and unprincipled politics. She is accused of being ostentatious and corrupt and of striking deals with anyone who will advance her political ambitions. 
 Even though caste discrimination has been officially banned in India, politics remains one of caste's last bastions, with every caste group looking to its own to advance its interests.
 Ms. Mayawati has been especially skillful in forging alliances with upper castes, and as chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, she has promoted an ambitious agenda devised to appeal across caste and class lines. Her main rallying cries are for an eight-lane highway, better policing and private investment as a means to ease poverty. 
 ''I prefer to be known as a leader for all the communities,'' a cheerful and self-assured Ms. Mayawati said in a rare interview with a pair of American journalists this month. ''In every community there are poor and unemployed people.'' 
 Her ascent is all the more important today because of the jigsaw puzzle nature of Indian politics. Neither of the national parties -- the governing Congress Party or its main opponent, the Bharatiya Janata Party -- is expected to win a majority in Parliament on its own in the next election, which is expected within a year. 
 Ms. Mayawati is positioning herself as a vital ally to whichever party may need her to govern -- and if she bargains hard enough, she could even become India's first Dalit prime minister. Uttar Pradesh, her state, has the largest bloc of seats in India's 543-member Parliament. 
 ''She is an original,'' said Ajoy Bose, author of a largely sympathetic political biography of Ms. Mayawati published recently by Penguin Books India. ''She is someone who is obviously going to play a major role in our lives.'' 
 Mrinal Pande, chief editor of the Hindi-language daily newspaper Hindustan, predicted that Ms. Mayawati could link arms with any party and in turn exact a high price, calling her a ''predator with little ideological baggage.'' 
 A few years ago, for instance, Ms. Mayawati campaigned on behalf of a radical Hindu nationalist, Narendra Modi; this week, she was seen warming up to Communist leaders in a potential alliance against the coalition government led by the Congress Party.
 In a country where caste continues to shape the way people vote, it remains to be seen whether Ms. Mayawati's cross-caste strategy will resonate broadly and whether her Bahujan Samaj Party -- in Hindi, the party of the majority of society -- will be able to expand nationally.
 Asked where she sees herself a few years from now, she demurred, suggesting only that she would aim to do across India what she had done in Uttar Pradesh, commonly known by its initials, U.P. ''Now,'' she said, with a hint of bravado, ''people in the rest of the country are watching.'' 
 ''We cannot fight just as Dalits,'' was a message she repeated. ''I understand for centuries people have fought each other. It is not easy to bring them together. But we have done this in U.P.''
 Affectionately referred to as Behenji, which is a respectful way to address a sister, Ms. Mayawati was born into a community once relegated to leather work and, according to Hinduism's ritual purity code, forbidden to share tea cups or water wells with upper-caste people.
 The daughter of a government worker in Delhi, she became a schoolteacher, earned a law degree and then devoted herself full time to what was then a fledgling party. 
 Her greatest innovation has been to lift a page from the Congress Party's playbook, and flip it. She has gone after Congress's traditional constituents -- Dalits, socially privileged Brahmins and Muslims -- but while a Brahmin has often led the others under the Congress Party, she insists on being the low-born leader at the helm. 
 Ms. Mayawati has lately sharpened her attacks on Congress Party leaders. As Rahul Gandhi, scion of the upper-caste Nehru-Gandhi dynasty, went on a widely publicized tour of the Uttar Pradesh countryside, eating and sleeping in low-caste homes, Ms. Mayawati baldly accused him of having to purify himself afterward with a ''special soap.''
 Ms. Mayawati's governing of Uttar Pradesh has been characterized by supersize acts of political symbolism. She has ordered the arrests of notorious organized crime bosses, along with a handful of known criminals in her own party, and in so doing, sought to send a message that the police would be free to do their job. She is famous for lording over civil servants in her state and transferring them at the drop of a hat. She has put up giant statues of Dalit icons, including herself, in the heart of this capital. 
 Her big-ticket plank today is a nearly 600-mile, $7.5 billion highway stretching across the state and promising to sprout several private townships along the way. It is financed with private money, and observers of Uttar Pradesh politics say it could become an inviting source of graft.
 Corruption is in fact the most serious criticism against Ms. Mayawati. The latest accusations surfaced this month in selected leaks to the news media. The Central Bureau of Investigation, the nation's highest law enforcement agency, accused Ms. Mayawati and her relatives of having illegally accumulated $2.4 million in property, including a villa in the elite diplomatic enclave of New Delhi, and $1.2 million in bank accounts. Ms. Mayawati promptly denounced the charges as politically motivated.
 Among her Dalit loyalists, Ms. Mayawati is sometimes called ''a goddess.'' In interviews across the state, many readily said they felt proud that a Dalit's daughter was governing the state. They also said her ascent had emboldened them to report crimes or seek benefits from the state.
 In Agrona village, on the western edge of the state, Rakesh Kumar, 34, a factory worker who belongs to one of the lowest castes, offered his own example. For years, his family had tried to retrieve a small patch of land, about 170 square yards, that had been occupied by middle-caste villagers called Gujjars. 
 Every time the Kumars went to the local authorities for redress, they got a runaround. Then, last summer, shortly after Ms. Mayawati took office, Mr. Kumar, with the aid of a local worker from the Bahujan Samaj Party, tried once more. ''Behenji became chief minister,'' he said. ''That's what gave me strength.'' 
 This time, the officials responded. They warned the Gujjars and threatened to call the police if they did not vacate the Kumars' land. After 12 years of trying, Mr. Kumar put a fence around his land. He plans to build a house there. (A Gujjar leader in the village confirmed the story.)
 ''The chief minister is our own kind,'' marveled Rajpal, who said that he was around 50 and that he was a sweeper by caste. ''Now we are not afraid of the police. We are not afraid of the Gujjars. We are not afraid of anyone.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Posters of Kumari Mayawati, the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, India's largest state, are for sale in a market in Lucknow. Ms. Mayawati is from a low-caste family.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RAPPORT, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Uttar Pradesh has more than 160 million residents. Map details area of Lucknow. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); RACE & RACISM (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RAINBOW COALITION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTTAR PRADESH, INDIA (93%) INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



420 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Pakistani Bear Market Has Investors Raging in the Streets

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
Angry investors stormed out of the Karachi Stock Exchange on Thursday, hurling stones and planters at the building in protest over slumping share prices. 
 The benchmark index fell for the 15th consecutive trading day, the worst losing run in at least 18 years. Angry investors also protested in Lahore and Islamabad, Pakistani newspapers reported. 
 ''I have lost my life savings in the last 15 days, and no one in the government or regulators came to help us,'' said Imran Inayat, 45, a protester and a former broker in Karachi, Bloomberg News reported. He said his loss was $4,175. 
 Much of the protesters' anger was directed at the new government, which is perceived as unable to fix an ailing economy plagued by runaway inflation and large budget and trade deficits. 
 The benchmark index on the Karachi Stock Exchange, the nation's biggest, declined by nearly 3 percent on Thursday. Investors demanded a temporary halt to trading. When the exchange management refused to stop trading, investors went on a rampage. The index has dropped by 36 percent since reaching a record high in April.
 Some of the fury was also directed at the Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan, which this week removed a 1 percent daily limit on price declines. The restriction was aimed at halting a slide that has wiped out $30 billion in companies' combined market value over three months. 
 ''There has been some level of mismanagement by the authorities,'' said Habib-ur-Rehman, a manager at Atlas Asset Management Ltd. in Karachi, according to Bloomberg. ''This may be due to their misperception that they can prevent the market from falling. Investors have to learn to bear losses as they do gains.'' 
 Volume at the stock exchange fell to the lowest in a decade. In response, regulators eased curbs on trading, including a ban on short-selling. Foreign investors have fled the exchange, according to data compiled by the central bank. 
 Much of the investor unease stems from the inability of the new civilian government, in power since late March, to stem the economic crisis. 
 Shortages of wheat, electricity and gasoline have affected all sectors of society. Blackouts have been a fixture of daily life for six months. Long lines are common at stores selling wheat, the staple food, at subsidized prices. 
 The government has been riven by rivalries between the leader of the major political party, Asif Ali Zardari, and the head of the coalition's junior partner, Nawaz Sharif, over how to restore 60 judges dismissed last year by President Pervez Musharraf. 
 A survey of Pakistanis released Thursday by the International Republican Institute in Washington showed widespread discontent with the economy. The survey, in which 3,484 Pakistanis were interviewed between June 1 and 15, showed that 92 percent of respondents saw shortages of wheat, natural gas and electricity as a ''serious problem.'' 
 In addition, 71 percent of respondents said that inflation was a major issue, compared with only 55 percent in a similar survey in January. The survey's margin of sampling error was plus or minus 1.7 percentage points. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Investors destroyed a door at the Karachi Stock Exchange in Pakistan on Thursday to protest slumping share prices.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ATHAR HUSSAIN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (84%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); BUDGETS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (65%); POWER FAILURES (65%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (63%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (60%); JUDGES (50%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (56%); NAWAZ SHARIF (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (88%) PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



421 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Homes Data Gets a Lift, By a Fluke

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Permits and groundbreakings for new homes unexpectedly rose in June after a months-long downturn in residential construction, the government said Thursday. 
 But the gains came almost entirely from new apartment buildings in New York City, because of a quirk in the city's construction codes. Outside the Northeast, housing starts dipped 4 percent. 
 ''This report is much weaker than it looks,'' Ian Shepherdson, an economist at the research firm High Frequency Economics, wrote in a note.
 At first glance, the report from the Commerce Department suggested a sudden change in fortunes for the ailing housing industry, which has suffered for months under a pall of plunging home values and a troubled mortgage market. 
 At 8:30 a.m., when the report was released, many economists said they felt thrown for a loop. Housing starts, which represent the beginning of work at new residential construction sites, were up 9.1 percent in June compared with the month before, reaching a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.066 million. The gain followed a 2.7 percent drop in May. 
 Permits for new construction, which are issued before groundbreakings, were also up strongly, increasing 11.6 percent last month to an annual rate of 1.091 million. They fell 0.4 percent the previous month. 
 But the figures reflected permits that builders in New York City had rushed to obtain so they could start construction projects before July 1, when the city enacted a new set of building codes. 
 As a result, permits jumped 73 percent in the Northeast region and housing starts rose a whopping 103 percent in June. Nearly all of those increases involved multifamily dwellings like apartments and condominium complexes.
 ''The city may never sleep, but many analysts, including us, were caught asleep at the switch,'' Richard Moody, an economist at the real estate firm Mission Residential, wrote in a research note. In reality, he said, ''the data do not significantly alter the view of the housing market.''
 Construction on new single-family homes, a category that excluded the apartment buildings affected by the New York surge, dropped 5.3 percent for the month. Permits for single-family homes dipped 3.5 percent. After adjusting for New York City, permits were up 0.7 percent over all.
 Groundbreakings declined in Midwestern and Western states and gained slightly in Southern states. Permits were up 3 percent in the South, up 0.9 percent in the West, and down slightly in the Midwest.
 The downturn in the housing market has put enormous pressure on home builders. Permit and housing start levels are far below their level of a year ago in every region in the nation.
 In June, housing starts were 27 percent below their level in June 2007. Building permits were 24 percent behind their pace in June 2007.
 The outlook, too, remains bleak. ''The magnitude of the housing bubble was unprecedented, and the corrective process promises to be a long and painful one,'' Joshua Shapiro, chief domestic economist at research firm MFR, wrote in a note. 
 In a separate report, the number of new claims for unemployment benefits rose by 18,000 last week, to 366,000, the Labor Department said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Housing Construction: New private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart details bar graph for June. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); CONSTRUCTION (92%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); BUILDING PERMITS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (79%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (85%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



422 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: East End Farmers Market Sold, With a Zabar Picked to Run It

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT

 BODY:
The Amagansett Farmers Market, a fixture on eastern Long Island for more than half a century, has been sold and will be operated by Eli Zabar, Mr. Zabar said on Thursday. 
 Mr. Zabar, the youngest of the three Zabar brothers, is not connected to the Upper West Side market called Zabar's but owns Eli's Manhattan, the Vinegar Factory and E.A.T., all on the Upper East Side.
 Pat Struk, who owned the Farmers Market, which sits on nearly 10 acres along the Montauk Highway at the eastern edge of Amagansett village, had been looking for a buyer for more than 10 years. The transaction, reported by Newsday on Tuesday, involved the Town of East Hampton, a jurisdiction that includes Amagansett, and the Peconic Land Trust. The town bought the development rights to 7.56 acres of farmland behind the market, and Margaret de Cuevas, a supporter of the trust, bought the market for $5.5 million. She will transfer the rights to the market to the trust.
 ''We work hard to protect farmland,'' said John v.H. Halsey, the president of the trust, an environmental organization on the East End of Long Island. ''The agricultural economy is unique to eastern Long Island.'' He added that whether the farmland is put into production by the trust, which owns and operates the cooperative Quail Hill Farm in Amagansett, or leased to a farmer ''remains to be decided.''
 He did not have an exact figure for what the town paid for the development rights on the 7.56-acre parcel of farmland, but said it was around $2 million.
 The agreement signed with Mr. Zabar is an operator's agreement and is effective through Nov. 30, 2011.
 Mr. Zabar said that his part of the deal, which he described as a partnership with the trust, was completed on Thursday. He said he hoped to reopen the market, which has been closed this season, on Aug. 1 and run it at least through September. ''This market will be a showcase for foods grown and produced all over eastern Long Island,'' he said. 
 Mr. Zabar owns a house in East Hampton, and is married to Devon Fredericks, who was a founder of the Loaves and Fishes Market in Sagaponack, which she sold many years ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); AGRICULTURE (73%); DRESSING & SAUCE MFG (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



423 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Talks Signal Mideast Shift

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Mona el-Naggar contributed reporting from Cairo.

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon 

 BODY:
After years of escalating tensions and bloodshed, the talk in the Middle East is suddenly about talking. The shift is still relatively subtle, but hints of a new approach in the waning months of the Bush administration are fueling hopes of at least short-term stability for the first time since the invasion of Iraq in 2003. 
 Much is happening, adding up not to any great diplomatic breakthrough, but to a distinct change in direction. Syria is being welcomed out of isolation by Europe and is holding indirect talks with Israel. Lebanon has formed a new government. Israel has cut deals with Hamas (a cease-fire) and Hezbollah (a prisoner exchange). 
 On Wednesday, the United States agreed to send a high-ranking diplomat to attend talks with Iran over its nuclear program, and was considering establishing a diplomatic presence in Tehran for the first time since the 1979 revolution and hostage crisis. 
 ''The overall picture is moving in the direction of cooling the political atmosphere,'' said Muhammad al-Rumaihi, a former government adviser in Kuwait and the editor of Awan, an independent daily newspaper there.
 Many underlying problems, including the Palestinian-Israeli conflict, are not on the verge of resolution. Afghanistan has recently seen a sharp spike in violence. In the Middle East, optimism can fill the void left by even a temporary lull in violence, like the recent -- and still fragile -- stability gains in Iraq. Nevertheless, not long ago, the fear was that Lebanon would descend into civil war and that either Israel or the United States, or both, would attack Iran. That seems less likely at the moment.
 The United States, Israel and some of their European allies have begun to recognize that their policy of trying to defeat their enemies by isolating and vilifying them has failed.
 The West's opponents -- Iran, Syria, Hezbollah and Hamas -- also appear to recognize that the cost of ratcheting up tensions may be too high. Syria and Iran are suffering serious economic problems and could benefit from better relations with the United States and Europe. ''We are seeing the outlines of a general thaw in the region,'' said Osama Safa, director of the Lebanese Center for Policy Studies in Beirut. 
 This is not necessarily good news for Washington's traditional Arab allies, including Egypt and Saudi Arabia. Leaders there were content to have the United States keep pressure on Iran, Hezbollah and Hamas, which threaten their own power.
 But it represents a pragmatic recognition among Western nations, analysts said, that those deemed rogues in the West have often generated popular support in the region. Hamas, Hezbollah and Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood have repeatedly shown nimble political instincts that have allowed them to exploit democratic openings urged by Washington to enhance their influence. 
 There is also recognition that the players who can deliver in hot spots like Iraq, Lebanon and Gaza are the same ones that Washington had shunned -- Syria, Iran, Hezbollah and Hamas.
 ''You may have to deal with governments on political issues, but when it comes to security, they have to deal with nonstate actors like Hezbollah and Hamas,'' Mr. Safa said.
 Simon Karam, a former Lebanese ambassador to Washington, said Hezbollah and Hamas also seemed to have followed the path taken by Yasir Arafat and his Palestine Liberation Organization, which was also condemned as a terrorist group before it found its place at the negotiating table.
 ''I witnessed a similar process with regard to P.L.O., Fatah and Arafat,'' Mr. Karam said. ''Both Americans and Israelis are more inclined to accept the status quo.''
 Not long ago, for example, when Fatah leaders negotiated a cease-fire with Israel, it was Hamas that had to be pressed to abide by the truce. Now Hamas, having negotiated a cease-fire with Israel in Gaza, has tried to rein in groups like Islamic Jihad. 
 The United States and Israel may have failed to dislodge Hamas from Gaza, weaken Hezbollah in Lebanon, stop Iran's nuclear program or force any pronounced change of behavior in Syria. Yet, each of those players has now seen it is in its interests to deal, too. The process of talks confers on them new diplomatic and political status, but maintaining that status requires some moderation in their policies.
 The emerging phase in Middle Eastern dynamics was on display on Wednesday. Emotions ran high when Israel and Hezbollah completed the deal to trade five Lebanese prisoners for two coffins with the remains of the Israeli soldiers captured two years ago. It was a clear Hezbollah victory, yet it was also seen in Lebanon as a deal to reduce the chances of a fresh cross-border conflict, analysts said. 
 On the same day, the United States announced that it would send William J. Burns, the under secretary for political affairs at the State Department, to attend talks with Iran over its nuclear program. The White House said there would be no negotiating. But that did little to mask the new approach, and was undermined by the talk of establishing limited diplomatic ties with Tehran.
 ''The presence of the representative is a move towards calm between Iran and the United States, especially within the Iraqi context,'' said Mr. Rumaihi, the former Kuwaiti government adviser. ''The Iraqi scene is also witnessing a political cooling through the announcement made by the Emirates, Bahrain and finally Kuwait about sending ambassadors to Iraq.'' 
 Events in this part of the world can change quickly. Lebanon could erupt next spring, when parliamentary elections are scheduled. If diplomatic overtures to Iran fail to dissuade it from pursuing what the West fears is a nuclear weapons program, military options could again take center stage. 
 Some analysts suspect that Israel and the United States may be trying to placate their other enemies in advance of a military strike on Iran that they consider all but inevitable. But these days, for everyone who sees diplomacy as a cover for military action, someone else sees saber rattling as a cover for compromise. 
 ''The Arab side is unable to grasp the speed with which the change is happening,'' said Salama Ahmed Salama, a daily columnist in Al Ahram, Egypt's largest state-controlled newspaper. ''Newspapers in Egypt and Saudi are all talking about the coming war between the United States and Israel on the one hand and Iran on the other. They can't understand that a compromise can happen at any time.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEZBOLLAH (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); IRAQ WAR (71%); HOSTAGE TAKING (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (57%); HAMAS (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (76%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); LEBANON (94%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); EUROPE (93%); SYRIA (93%); IRAQ (93%); EGYPT (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); KUWAIT (79%); IRAN (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



424 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: The Coming Activist Age

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
We're entering an era of epic legislation. There are at least five large problems that will compel the federal government to act in gigantic ways over the next few years.
 First, there is the erosion of the social contract. Private sector firms are less likely to provide health benefits, producing a desperate need for health care reform. Second, there is the energy shortage. Rising Asian demand strains worldwide supply, threatening industry and consumers, and producing calls for a bold energy initiative. Third, there is the stagnation in human capital. During the 20th century, Americans were better educated than the citizens of any other power. Since 1970, that lead has been forfeited, producing inequality and wage stagnation. To compete, the U.S. will require a series of human capital initiatives.
 Fourth, there's financial market reform. In an intricately connected world, even Republican administrations cannot allow big institutions to fail. If government is going to guarantee against failure, then it is inevitably going to get more involved in regulating how businesses are run. Fifth, there's infrastructure reform. The U.S. transportation system is in shambles and will require major new projects. 
 All of this means that the next few years will be an age of government activism. You may think, therefore, that this situation is ripe for Democratic dominance. The Democrats are the natural party of federal vigor. Voters prefer Democratic approaches to issues like health care and education by as much as 25 percentage points. 
 Yet, historically, periods of great governmental change have often been periods of conservative rule. It's as if voters understand that they need big changes, but they want those changes planned and enacted by leaders who will restrain the pace of change and prevent radical excess. 
 Two of the most prominent conservative reformers were Benjamin Disraeli and Theodore Roosevelt. Both reframed the political debate so that it was not change versus the status quo, it was unfamiliar change versus cautious, patriotic change designed to preserve the traditional virtues of the nation.
 Disraeli inherited a British Conservative Party that was a political club for the landowning class. He created One Nation Conservatism, a reminder that Britain was one community, with a sense of mutual responsibility across classes. Then, at the pinnacle of his career, he embraced reform, expanding the franchise to the socially conservative working class.
 Disraeli saw this change as a way to restore ancient glories. Or, as he put it: ''In a progressive country, change is constant; and the great question is not whether you should resist change, which is inevitable, but whether that change should be carried out in deference to the manners, the customs, the laws and traditions of a people, or whether it should be carried out in deference to abstract principles, and arbitrary and general doctrines.'' 
 Like Disraeli, Roosevelt was a romantic nationalist. While the more progressive reformers spoke the international language of modernization, Roosevelt spoke the language of highly charged Americanism. 
 He believed private property was the basis of American greatness. He built his persona around the classic American icons: the cowboy, fighter and pioneer. 
 He defended his initiatives as the way to maintain the economic and social order. People had enough change in their lives; they were looking for government that could preserve the way things already were. If the trusts threatened the traditional small businessman, he would take on the trusts. If industrialism threatened the natural landscape, he would become a preservationist. 
 His formula was like Disraeli's: political innovation to restore traditional national morality. He had an image of an American hero -- thrifty, hard-working, vigorous and righteous -- and sought to create a Square Deal for that sort of person. ''The true function of the state as it interferes in social life,'' Roosevelt wrote, ''should be to make the chances of competition more even, not to abolish them.''
 John McCain's challenge is to recreate this model. He will never get as many cheers in Germany as Barack Obama, but for a century his family has embodied American heroism. He will never seem as young and forward-leaning as his opponent, but he did have his values formed in an age that people now look back to with respect. 
 The high point of his campaign, so far, has been his energy policy, which is comprehensive and bold, but does not try to turn us into a nation of bicyclists. It does not view America's energy-intense economy as a sign of sinfulness.
 If McCain is going to win this election, it will because he can communicate an essential truth -- that people in a great and successful nation do not want change for its own sake. But they do realize that it's only through careful reform that they can preserve what they and their ancestors have so laboriously built. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



425 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: After the Vetoes on Zimbabwe: What's the Next Step?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''2 Vetoes Quash U.N. Sanctions on Zimbabwe'' (front page, July 12): 
 Now that efforts to impose sanctions on Zimbabwe and regional mediation have failed to topple the Mugabe regime, what are the alternatives? 
 Having lived and worked intermittently in southern Africa since 1971, I believe that there are lessons to be learned from the defeat of apartheid. 
 A divestment campaign in the United States pressured the minority regime. Eventually, in 1985, Gavin W. H. Relly, the chairman of the Anglo American Corporation, defied South Africa's official policy and led a delegation of business leaders to meet privately with the banned African National Congress in Lusaka, Zambia, where they discussed the transition to a new order.
 In Zimbabwe today, there are fissures within President Robert Mugabe's cohort. The objective should be to hive off the elements ill served by a sham regime and collapsed economy. Absent the Mugabe clique, the prospects for democracy in Zimbabwe, a country with a vibrant civil society and highly skilled work force, are excellent. 
 James H. Mittelman 
 Bethesda, Md., July 12, 2008
 The writer is a professor of international affairs at the School of International Service, American University.
 To the Editor:
 By vetoing sanctions against Zimbabwe, Russia and China have made it clear that the circle of totalitarian states takes in members of any size that persecute, harass and kill their own people.
 Sol Stein 
 Tarrytown, N.Y., July 12, 2008
 The writer was the chief editor of the ideological advisory staff of the Voice of America during the cold war.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); VETO (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (78%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); LABOR FORCE (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); DIVESTITURES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%)

COMPANY: ANGLO AMERICAN CORP ZIMBABWE LTD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (57%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) ZIMBABWE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (92%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (90%); CHINA (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



426 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Sacramone Is Still Waiting For That Call

BYLINE: By JULIET MACUR

DATELINE: NEW WAVERLY, Tex. 

 BODY:
This week, for what she said feels like the millionth time, Alicia Sacramone headed to Martha and Bela Karolyi's ranch, the home of the training center for the women's gymnastics national team.
 Sacramone, the team's spiritual and social leader, said she has made the trip to this enclave tucked into the Sam Houston National Forest about six times a year for the past seven years. 
 But this time, Sacramone, 20, will probably not be giving her teammates advice on life-or-death teenage issues like: ''A guy I like texted me. What should I write back?'' She will not be the den mother and marvel at the giddy girls who clamor to watch ''Gossip Girl'' or braid each other's hair.
 This trip is much too serious for that. 
 On Saturday night, Sacramone will find out whether she has made the United States Olympic team for the first time. The final four Olympians and up to three alternates will be announced then after a two-day intrasquad competition that begins Friday. 
 Shawn Johnson and Nastia Liukin, the top finishers at the Olympic trials, were named to the team June 22. The rest had to wait.
 ''It's annoying and nerve-racking and, really, it hurts a lot not to know already,'' said Sacramone, who failed to make the 2004 Olympic team. ''I just want to be able to take a deep breath and say: 'O.K., c'mon. I'm too old for this. Just whisper it to me. I won't tell anyone. Did I make the team or not?' ''
 At the trials in Philadelphia, Martha Karolyi, the women's national team coordinator, had said, ''This team would not be the same without Alicia Sacramone'' and ''I couldn't imagine a team without Alicia on it.'' 
 Yet only the names of Johnson and Liukin were announced after the competition and confetti fell from the rafters. Sacramone tried to smile, but it was a struggle.
 She is one of the world's best on the vault and is a former world champion in floor exercise. At the world championships last year, she was credited for rallying the team going into the last rotation, giving a stirring speech that helped lift the United States into first place over China.
 But Sacramone stood there, yearning for her name to be called -- and nothing. 
 ''I was trying to will it to happen,'' she said. ''I was like, Say it! Alicia! Alicia! God, please.''
 Karolyi, however, stuck to her plan. She named the minimum two Olympians, and is waiting until the last possible moment to complete the squad. Her goal is to make sure she chooses athletes who are healthy and in the best shape for Beijing.
 After so many years of waiting while her schedule grew busier and she grew older, Sacramone said she was ready, finally. She and Chellsie Memmel are the team's oldest members, weathered veterans of this ranch. 
 But leading up to the 2004 Athens Games, Sacramone was a 15-year-old pipsqueak, the youngest member of the national team. She had a few disappointing performances and did not make it to the Olympics.
 To make matters worse, she injured her back and was stuck in a hulking plastic brace that summer. Her parents, Gail and Fred Sacramone, recalled that Alicia barely left her room for weeks.
 ''It was kind of like a death in the family,'' said Fred Sacramone, an orthodontist. ''You can't say anything. You were there just to be with her when she cried and cried and cried. It was awful.
 ''But to move forward, you have to hit bottom. And that's exactly what she did.''
 Sacramone bounced back. In 2005, she won the world championship in the floor exercise. She then enrolled at Brown University, where she juggled classes like modern architecture, Italian culture and economics while competing on the gymnastics team. 
 And she kept training with her longtime coach, Mihai Brestyan, a former Romanian coach whose gym was about 40 minutes away.
 ''See all this gray hair on my head?'' Brestyan said. ''Three-quarters of that is from her.''
 Early on, Sacramone was a handful, said Gail Sacramone, a hair salon owner. At 3, she bumped her head on the front door of what would have been her first gym. She started crying, then refused to enter.
 Five years later, her parents took her to Brestyan. She managed to clear the gym's doorway without any mishaps. 
 The Sacramones, who live in Winchester, Mass., a suburb of Boston, warned Brestyan that Alicia was not like most girls.
 ''She's not a very quiet, demure, listen-to-everything and robotic kind of gymnast,'' Fred Sacramone said. ''She gets a lot of that from us because we're Italian and maybe a little more expressive, maybe a little louder than most people. When the family is all together at Christmas, our house kind of sounds like a stadium.''
 It did not take long for Brestyan to figure out he was dealing with a fiery girl without much focus. 
 Even now, if Sacramone sees someone faltering, she will stop her workout to give a pep talk, Brestyan said. 
 ''It was a balance in building her personality because what is good for life is not necessarily good for gymnastics,'' Brestyan said. ''Alicia is always trying to support everyone else, but sometimes, I wish she would support herself, too. Sometimes, it hurts her because she's distracted.''
 Sacramone said that she had been kicked out of the gym ''a bunch of times'' for ''mouthing off or not listening.'' At competitions, she has stared down a judge or two. But Sacramone has too much natural talent to stay in exile.
 Her power, Brestyan said, is unmatched on the team, which is why she is so strong on the vault and in floor exercise. 
 ''I've been told I am a freak of nature, and I take that as a compliment,'' said Sacramone, who is dating a defensive back on Brown's football team.
 To Johnson, 16, the reigning all-around world champion, Sacramone is a counselor, mentor and goddess wrapped into one. Not only because Sacramone is older, Johnson said, but because she is so accomplished.
 Sacramone, a sociology major who is on leave from college, has seven world medals, second on the team to Johnson and Liukin, who each have nine. 
 ''She's like our big sister here because we can ask her anything and she knows the answer,'' Johnson said. ''When she talks, you listen.''
 When Sacramone gathered her teammates at the world championships last year, the younger ones looked to her with wide eyes and worried faces. 
 They had just completed a disastrous rotation on the balance beam, and China was poised to win.
 ''I was like, O.K., change your faces. We're fine. We can do this,'' Sacramone recalled. ''I said, 'We worked too hard to let China go home with the gold,' and it was so cute. By the end they were cheering: 'U.S.A! U.S.A!' ''
 Sacramone was last to step onto the floor for her routine, determined to live up to her words. When she nailed her final tumbling pass, she burst into tears. Nearby, Brestyan was overcome with emotion.
 Tearing up as he recalled the moment, Brestyan said: ''To see that huge change in a young person, for her to go from a very social person without focus to someone who became a leader that day, it was the best thing in the world. It's like watching your child accomplish something great. It was everything we've worked for.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alicia Sacramone during last month's Olympic trials. She hopes to be named to the team Saturday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AL BELLO/GETTY IMAGES)
 Sacramone, a former world champ in floor exercise, with her coach Mihai Brestyan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY SCHWALM/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); GYMNASTICS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); ATHLETES (75%); ADOLESCENTS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



427 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; FLINT JOURNAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: A Big Party Without The Guest Of Honor

BYLINE: By CATRIN EINHORN

DATELINE: FLINT, Mich. 

 BODY:
A 100th birthday party, one would think, is cause for special celebration. 
 But here in Flint, the honoree is the company that both built the city and left much of it collapsed. And so, like generations of a family recognizing a controversial patriarch, people here are taking note of the centennial of the founding of General Motors with a complicated mixture of respect and anger, pride and hurt. 
 ''It's still good they're doing something for Flint,'' said Fred Morse, 34, a self-employed construction worker whose father worked for G.M. for 36 years. ''But people need jobs more than they need entertainment and free hot dogs.'' 
 In the 1970s, General Motors employed some 80,000 people in the Flint area, and it seems everyone here is tied to the company in one way or another. Those who did not work at G.M. rattle off the names of relatives who did. But as G.M. shed jobs and moved others abroad, its employment in Flint dwindled. Today, about 8,000 area residents work for the company. 
 Many people here applaud the 100th anniversary celebration, timed to coincide with an annual gathering of the Buick Club of America, and featuring tours of the building where the company was started and a parade of G.M. vehicles from almost every year of the company's existence. They say General Motors reacted as any company would to broader economic forces. 
 At a picnic on Sunday that was billed as a ''G.M. family reunion,'' many people wanted to pay tribute to the company for all the jobs it brought to Flint, for the all the pensions it still pays and for its legacy of treasured cultural institutions. 
 ''You've got to remember the inheritance we got from General Motors,'' said Roger Pruett, 53, who took a buyout in 2006 after 25 years in a variety of jobs. 
 But others blamed G.M. for Flint's decline and questioned whether there was anything to celebrate. On Tuesday, in the middle of the weeklong festivities, the company announced plans for another round of cuts -- in salaried jobs, retiree health insurance and truck production. One of Flint's remaining G.M. plants produces pickups and larger commercial trucks.
 Unemployment in and around Flint is 11.1 percent, the highest among metropolitan areas in Michigan, the state with the highest unemployment in the nation, according to the most recent federal figures. The Flint area also registered the largest unemployment rate increase in the nation in May 2008 compared with a year earlier: 3.4 percentage points, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Downtown, next to boarded-up businesses and scaffolding that heralds redevelopment, lamppost signs proclaim G.M.'s centennial and Flint as its birthplace. Atop the arches framing the main street, company and United States flags wave next to one another. 
 ''Flint could be some little hick town in Michigan, but because of General Motors, it's a world-renowned city,'' said David White, volunteer chairman of the committee that organized the celebration. 
 Mr. White, a self-described ''history nut,'' said a group of auto enthusiasts decided to spearhead the celebration because no one else would. The city is struggling with a several million-dollar budget shortfall and General Motors is planning a future-focused event in Detroit, its headquarters. 
 Local foundations, most with historical ties to the company, came up with $80,000 for the event. The United Auto Workers, which came to strength here during the storied strike of 1936-7, gave $3,500, organizers said.
 ''It's to have something positive for the community and to bring people back to the center city and show them that Flint's not dead, that positive things are happening,'' Mr. White said.
 But General Motors disappointed some of its staunchest supporters here by contributing little. A public relations representative attended some meetings, but eventually stopped coming. (G.M. officials said she was transferred to another job.) Organizers dreamed of a finale with two concept cars representing G.M.'s future, but one was already booked and it cost too much to ship the other. So the Flint organizers will content themselves with 2008 models from a local dealer.
 General Motors officials said that Flint was one of many cities with a historical connection to the company, and that faced with its own financial uncertainties, it could not pay for events in each. 
 ''This industry is in tremendous change, and the world economy is in tremendous change,'' said Bill O'Neill, a G.M. spokesman. ''It's important for people to understand that as the industry changes, what they understand as General Motors will change.''
 Fifty years ago, a group of Flint residents coordinated an entire year of civic events tied to General Motors's 50th anniversary. Thousands turned out for a huge parade that included movie and television stars and 23 bands.
 Now the city, home to the University of Michigan-Flint, Kettering University, Baker College of Flint and Mott Community College, is trying to reinvent itself as a hub of higher education. The area has already switched to a service-based economy from one based on manufacturing, said Mark J. Perry, a professor of economics at the University of Michigan-Flint, with a higher percentage of service jobs and a lower percentage of manufacturing jobs than the country as a whole. 
 ''Automotive jobs are gone, G.M. jobs are gone, and now we have to move towards a new identity, hopefully for the next 100 years,'' Professor Perry said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Flint is paying tribute to General Motors with music, a picnic and a parade of G.M. vehicles.
General Motors now employs about 8,000 workers in the Flint area
there used to be some 80,000.
 Even as a celebration of the General Motors presence in Flint was under way this week, the company announced more job cuts.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); STATISTICS (84%); PARADES & MARCHES (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); MEN (77%); FAMILY (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); CITIES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (69%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (66%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (63%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BUICK CLUB OF AMERICA (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLINT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



428 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; YOUR SECOND HOME MARINA LIVING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: On the Water

BYLINE: By STEVE BAILEY

 BODY:
DIANA DAYRIT and Jon Magel of Brooklyn have found a relatively low-cost getaway, a boat at a marina in Montauk, N.Y. If you think about the price of waterfront property, and then think about boat prices and marina fees, a boat can make a lot of sense for people who don't mind bumping into each other in close quarters.
 ''We've always loved Montauk,'' Ms. Dayrit said. ''But because property is so expensive out there, we could never afford to buy a house. With a boat, we're able to have not only a home but a portable hotel that we can travel with as well.'' 
 The couple keep their boat -- a 31-foot Chaparral that can sleep four in two double berths -- at a small, friendly marina with full services, including utilities and winter storage, for about $6,500 a year. ''Our slip neighbors have been in their spots for over 30 years,'' said Ms. Dayrit, who is spending her third summer at Montauk, on the eastern end of Long Island. ''It's a blast listening to their stories, meeting their families and just sharing in the pleasantries that marina living brings.''
 This is a good time for people who want to emulate Ms. Dayrit and Mr. Magel. Even in a good economy, boats depreciate about as quickly as tuna salad sandwiches. And thanks to soaring fuel prices, many large boats are for sale; boats that originally cost well into the six figures are available on Craigslist and eBay for fractions of that. And if you plan to use your boat mostly as a marina-based party platform and hotel room, fuel costs should not be a huge factor.
 A recent search on Craigslist turned up many boats roomy enough to serve as getaways for couples or small families. For example, a 32-foot 1987 Sea Ray Sundancer in Milford, Conn., was recently offered in ''good running condition'' for $18,000. It has a kitchen, a bathroom and room to sleep six. (A new 31-foot, twin-engine 2008 Sundancer has a list price of $179,444.) A more spacious alternative to the Sea Ray might be a Chris Craft, like the 41-foot 1978 model in Oshkosh, Wis., recently posted on Craigslist. It has a teak interior, two staterooms, two bathrooms, air-conditioning and a large deck and sunning area -- ''wonderful boat for entertaining,'' according to the seller, who was asking $79,900. 
 A 42-foot 408 Meridian Motor Yacht was offered for $289,000; dockage for the rest of the summer in Lindenhurst, N.Y., overlooking the Great South Bay, was included. The boat has a satellite dish, two staterooms, two bathrooms with showers, two years left on its warranty and, of course, a salon for entertaining. 
 Entertaining, however, would not be limited to how many people can squeeze onto your boat. Many marinas have amenities for you and your guests that go well beyond the traditionally spartan showers. Picnic and barbecue areas, indoor kitchens, restaurants and even swimming pools are increasingly common.
 David Fenelon of Burnt Hills, N.Y., keeps his 30-foot Chaparral at a marina on Lake George, about 45 minutes from his home. Mr. Fenelon has quite an attachment to the lake -- ''I grew up spending the summer season camping at Lake George'' -- and introduced his wife, Kim, and their children, now ages 14 and 19, to the lake's delights.
 He said he originally wanted a camp on the lake, as summer homes there are called, but rising property values led them to the boat-marina solution. On weekends, ''if we decide to stay at the marina, that's fine,'' Mr. Fenelon said. ''We have a private slip at the very end, so peace and seclusion are ours. The center of activity at the lake is one mile across the water from our boat. If we want a change of scenery, a lake 32 miles long with lots of bays, historical significance, the Adirondack Mountains, etc., gives us every opportunity to change things up,'' he said in an e-mail. 
 Ms. Dayrit said that she and her husband have taken their boat to Block Island, a 36-gallon round trip, in past summers, but this year, they're hanging out at the marina.
 ''We head out of the city late on Fridays in an effort to avoid the Hamptons traffic,'' she said. ''There's nothing quite like pulling into a parking spot overlooking the marina, everything silent except for the crunching of gravel underneath the car tires as we start another relaxing weekend. There isn't a day that we don't feel grateful to have this perfect little getaway right on the water.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NANCY DONIGER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (72%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (69%); CONNECTICUT, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



429 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 487 words

 BODY:
'A DEAD BUSINESS' Unable to cope with the rising cost of corn and soybean feed, which has nearly tripled in price in the last two years, catfish producers in the South are laying off workers and draining their ponds. 
 DISMAL QUARTER Merrill Lynch reported a loss of $4.9 billion in the second quarter, far worse than the $1.8 billion loss financial analysts had expected. [C1.]
 JPMorgan Chase, weathering the tight credit market better than most financial institutions, said its net income fell more than half in the second quarter. [C3.]
 DISAPPOINTING RESULTS Google and Microsoft reported quarterly earnings that failed to meet analysts' expectations, sending shares of both companies down in after-hours trading. [C1.]
 TAX INQUIRY UBS, the Swiss banking giant, said it would close its offshore banking services to Americans and help the federal government identify citizens engaging in tax fraud. [C1.]
 LEGISLATIVE BATTLE Industry executives are seeking to block a bill that would broaden federal regulators' authority over speculation in the nation's energy markets. [C1.]
 SYMBOL OF PROMINENCE The Dubai International Financial Center has become a beacon for deal makers looking to stake their claim in one of the world's last remaining bull markets. [C1.]
 HIGHER SALES Nokia, the Finnish cellphone maker, reported that its sales rose 4 percent in the second quarter, and it slightly upgraded its forecast for the cellphone market in 2008. [C2.]
 FEDERAL INVESTIGATION The headquarters of Wachovia Securities were raided by regulators as part of an investigation into questionable practices involving auction-rate securities. [C3.]
 COKE PRICE INCREASE Hurt by higher costs, Coca-Cola Enterprises, the biggest Coca-Cola bottler, said it would raise prices after Labor Day. [C3.]
 SWINGING TO A LOSS Continental Airlines said it lost $3 million in the second quarter, compared with a profit of $228 million in the period a year ago. [C3.]
 SUSPICIOUS OF GREEN The advertising industry is detecting the public's growing skepticism over ads with environmental messages. Advertising. [C3.]
 CASE EXPANDS The European Commission said that it added three new charges against Intel in its antitrust case against the maker of semiconductors. [C4.]
 EXECUTIVE SHAKE-UP The board of Advanced Micro Devices ousted the chief executive, Hector Ruiz, and named Dirk Meyer, an executive at the company, as his successor. [C4.]
 FRAUD LAWSUIT Investors are claiming Goldman Sachs failed to investigate signs that something was amiss at the Bayou Group, the hedge fund firm managed by Samuel Israel III. [C6.]
 INFLATION WOES China's inflation rate fell to 7.1 percent in June, but a Chinese official said the country still faced pressure from further price increases. [C7.]
 ALTERED VIEW A quirk in New York's construction codes helped lift groundbreakings in June, but outside the Northeast, housing starts dipped 4 percent. [C7.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); AUCTIONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MERCHANT BANKING (77%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); ELECTRONICS (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); TAX LAW (69%); LITIGATION (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); US LABOR DAY (68%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); GOOGLE INC (83%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); COCA-COLA CO (53%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (53%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES NEDERLAND BV (53%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES INC (53%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (52%); INTEL CORP (52%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%); GS (NYSE) (58%); KO (NYSE) (53%); UAL (NYSE) (53%); CCE (PAR) (53%); CCE (NYSE) (53%); AMD (NYSE) (52%); AMD (FRA) (52%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: DERRICK R MEYER (50%); HECTOR DE J RUIZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); FINLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



430 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Harlem Area Is Blighted, State Agency Declares

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS

 BODY:
The Empire State Development Corporation declared a 17-acre area of Harlem blighted on Thursday, a step toward forcing property owners to sell their land as part of eminent domain proceedings to make way for the expansion of Columbia University.
 The long-awaited finding -- that a slice of the west part of Harlem known as Manhattanville is full of deteriorating buildings -- was part of the state development agency's preliminary approval of the university's $6.28 billion expansion plan. 
 The plan, which the agency is expected to formally approve in the fall, has been opposed by some Harlem residents, who fear being displaced by the university.
 The expansion, which is to take place over 25 years, will transform a section of Upper Manhattan dominated by warehouses and auto-body shops into a campus with high-rise classrooms and laboratories, tree-lined streets and student housing. 
 All but a handful of the expansion zone's existing buildings will be torn down to make room for the new campus, which Columbia officials have said will eventually include many of the university's science and research facilities. 
 Columbia says it is short of space. On Thursday, Lee C. Bollinger, Columbia's president, lauded the agency's move.
 ''We are gratified by the Empire State Development Corporation's adoption of a general project plan as the next step for a civic project that has moved forward with widespread support from local officials, elected representatives and a wide coalition of public interest groups committed to sustainable growth and vibrant urban neighborhoods,'' President Bollinger said in a statement. 
 Much of the opposition to the expansion plan has been centered on Columbia's refusal to pledge that it would not seek to have the state take over the privately owned land that the university has been unable to purchase.
 Mr. Bollinger has promised not to ask the state to invoke eminent domain for the area's residential buildings, which are home to about 300 people, but he has refused to make similar promises regarding the few commercial properties that have not been purchased by the university.
 On Thursday, Columbia released its most direct statement to date about its intention to pursue eminent domain: ''The university has requested that the E.S.D.C. consider exercising its eminent domain authority in order to ensure that commercial development in this old industrial area does not prevent the city and state from achieving the public interest goals in the proposed academic expansion, with all of the long-term economic, educational and civic benefits it will bring to the local economy and all New Yorkers.''
 The university has said it owns about 90 percent of the private property in the area bounded roughly by Broadway on the east, Riverside Drive on the west, 133rd Street on the north and 129th Street on the south.
 Two commercial property owners, however, have refused to sell. One of them is Nicholas Sprayregen, who owns four buildings in the expansion zone as part of his Tuck-It-Away Self-Storage moving and storage business. 
 Mr. Sprayregen has been vocal in his opposition to eminent domain and has vowed to fight the university to the Supreme Court if necessary. For months, his buildings have displayed giant banners that read ''Stop Eminent Domain Abuse!''
 On Thursday, Mr. Sprayregen, 44, vowed to continue fighting.
 ''It is clear that the voices of the community have been unsuccessful in dissuading Columbia University or the state from voluntarily backing off the threat of eminent domain,'' he said. ''We will go full steam ahead in preparing our defense.''
 But on Thursday, many city and state lawmakers were aligned against Mr. Sprayregen. 
 Along with the press release announcing the development agency's approval of the expansion plan were statements of approval from Gov. David A. Paterson, Representative Charles B. Rangel, Deputy Mayor Robert C. Lieber and state Assemblyman Keith L. T. Wright. 
 The project has been approved by the City Council and is supported by the Manhattan borough president, Scott M. Stringer.
 On Thursday, the state development agency said that two separate studies had determined that the part of Harlem under consideration was ''mainly characterized by aging, poorly maintained and functionally obsolete industrial buildings, with little indication of recent reinvestment to revive their generally deteriorated conditions.'' 
 Opponents of the expansion, however, have said for months that the study's findings were a foregone conclusion because the consulting firm that performed the blight analysis on behalf of the state -- Allee King Rosen & Fleming Inc. -- had previously conducted Columbia University's environmental impact study for the expansion. 
 On Thursday, the state agency said that the consulting firm's analysis had been audited by a second firm, Earth Tech Inc.
 This week, a state appellate court upheld a decision ordering the development corporation to release documents regarding the expansion of Columbia University to Mr. Sprayregen because of the conflict of interest.
 A public hearing on the project will probably be held in September, said Warner Johnston, an agency spokesman. A final vote will come after the hearing. 
 After that, businesses facing the possibility of eminent domain would have 30 days to present their arguments, officials said.
 Columbia said on Thursday that it was willing to restart negotiations with the holdout businesses before eminent domain proceedings began.
 ''The university remains committed to reaching mutually beneficial agreements with the two remaining commercial property owners on these blocks,'' Columbia said in a statement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); EMINENT DOMAIN (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); APPROVALS (76%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (73%); AUTOMOTIVE BODY & INTERIOR REPAIR SHOPS (68%); CITY LIFE (64%); CITIES (64%)

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (93%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



431 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 266 words

HEADLINE: Wachovia Office Is Raided By Securities Regulators

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Securities regulators from several states raided the St. Louis headquarters of Wachovia Securities on Thursday, seeking documents and records on the company's sales practices. 
 The move is part of a broad investigation into questionable practices involving auction-rate securities, Missouri officials said.
 The office of Missouri's secretary of state, Robin Carnahan, said the ''special inspection'' at Wachovia Securities was connected to the collapse this year of the $330 billion auction-rate securities market. Wachovia Securities is part of the Wachovia Corporation, based in Charlotte, N.C.
 ''Hundreds of Missouri investors have called my office because of inability to access their money,'' Ms. Carnahan said in a statement. She said she intended to take actions to ''to make these investors whole.''
 A Wachovia spokeswoman, Christy Phillips-Brown, said, ''Most securities firms, including Wachovia, are responding to inquiries from regulators about the auction-rate securities industry.''
 The Securities and Exchange Commission declined to comment.
 Auction-rate securities were used, among other things, to finance municipal projects and agencies. The interest rates on the securities were reset at regular auctions, but the market fell apart during the credit crisis when investment banks stopped buying because the paper was seen as too risky. Many issuers had to turn elsewhere to borrow, often at much higher rates.
 More than 70 formal complaints were filed with the Missouri Securities Division in the last four months, representing more than $40 million of frozen investments.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Officials from several states sought sales documents on Thursday at the offices in St. Louis of Wachovia Securities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF ROBERSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (92%); SECURITIES LAW (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (94%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (91%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (55%) MISSOURI, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



432 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE FOOD CHAIN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: Soaring Grain Prices Put Catfish Farms on the Endangered List

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

DATELINE: LELAND, Miss. 

 BODY:
Catfish farmers across the South, unable to cope with the soaring cost of corn and soybean feed, are draining their ponds. 
 ''It's a dead business,'' said John Dillard, who pioneered the commercial farming of catfish in the late 1960s. Last year Dillard & Company raised 11 million fish. Next year it will raise none. People can eat imported fish, Mr. Dillard said, just as they use imported oil.
 As for his 55 employees? ''Those jobs are gone.''
 Corn and soybeans have nearly tripled in price in the last two years, for many reasons: harvest shortfalls, increasing demand by the Asian middle class, government mandates for corn to produce ethanol and, most recently, the flooding in the Midwest. 
 This is creating a bonanza for corn and soybean farmers but is wreaking havoc on consumers, who are seeing price spikes in the grocery store and in restaurants. Hog and chicken producers as well as cattle ranchers, all of whom depend on grain for feed, are being severely squeezed.
 Perhaps nowhere has the rise in crop prices caused more convulsions than in the Mississippi Delta, the hub of the nation's catfish industry. This is a hard-luck, poverty-plagued region, and raising catfish in artificial ponds was one of the few mainstays.
 Then the economics went awry. Feed is now more than half the total cost of raising catfish, compared with a third of the cost of beef and pork production, according to a Mississippi State analysis. That makes catfish more vulnerable. But if the commodities continue to rocket up -- and some analysts believe they will -- other industries will fall victim as well.
 Keith King, the president of Dillard & Company, calculates that for every dollar the company spends raising its fish, it gets back only 75 cents when they go to market.
 ''What's happening to this industry is sad, but being sentimental won't pay the light bill,'' Mr. King said.
 Dillard and other growers take their fish, still squirming, to Consolidated Catfish Producers in the hamlet of Isola, where workers run the machinery that slices them into filets. With fewer fish coming in, Consolidated Catfish is resorting to layoffs. 
 One hundred employees were let go in the last month, and an additional 200 will be cut soon. President Dick Stevens predicts that by the end of the year the company will have jobs for only 450, about half the number at its peak. That might not be enough to keep the plant open.
 ''The industry is going to implode,'' Mr. Stevens said. He blamed the government's ethanol mandates for making fuel compete with food for the harvest of the nation's farmland. ''Politicians were in a rush to do something, and it became a terrible snowball.''
 Across the highway, one of the local feed mills, Producers Feed Company, has already shut down. The ripple effects have begun: between the grain mill and the fish plant was Peter Bo's Restaurant, locally celebrated for, naturally, its catfish. Hanging on the door is a ''for rent'' sign.
 Some catfish producers recently switched to a feed based on gluten, a cheaper derivative of corn, to reduce their costs. But corn gluten transportation and prices were particularly hard hit by the Midwest floods.
 ''As sick as we were over what happened to the Iowa farmers, we were also sick over what was going to happen to us,'' Mr. Stevens said.
 It is a feeling echoed by others who depend on corn and soybeans.
 In the spring, hog farmers thought they were past the worst. Export sales to China were strong. Corn appeared to level off. Some farmers sought an edge by reformulating pigs' diets and reducing the weight at which they sent the animals to the packer.
 ''And then corn goes up another buck, and you're back where you were,'' said Dave Uttecht, a producer in Alpena, S.D., who raises 70,000 pigs a year. 
 ''I'm a farmer. I'm used to peaks and valleys.'' Mr. Uttecht said. ''But this is like falling into the Grand Canyon.'' 
 Smaller herds will eventually put a floor under hog prices, and there is already some liquidation going on. But in the short term, sending more hogs to market will increase the supply of pork and push prices down further. Every farmer is hoping his colleagues will liquidate first.
 ''We're all waiting for someone else to blink,'' Mr. Uttecht said.
 Hog farmers at least have the advantage that bacon and pork chops are solidly rooted in American cuisine, and if you want either there is no replacement.
 In this and many other ways, catfish farmers are not so lucky.
 Catfish started out as a local delicacy, widely celebrated in the lore of the Deep South. Mark Twain saluted it in ''Life on the Mississippi.'' A character in Eudora Welty's story ''The Wide Net'' says after stuffing himself, ''There ain't a thing better.''
 Mr. Dillard, whose operation at its peak was one of the country's five biggest catfish companies, came to the delta 50 years ago to farm cotton. He put in some catfish ponds a decade later almost on a whim. ''I liked the way they tasted,'' he said. ''Fried.''
 Other farmers had the same idea. At first the ponds were put on soil too dry for cotton. When they proved a better crop, they took over cotton ground, too. For a long time, everyone made money. 
 In 2005, according to the Agriculture Department, catfish farming was a $462 million industry, far exceeding any other American farm-raised fish. The industry employed more than 10,000 people at its peak, almost all in Mississippi, Alabama, Louisiana and Arkansas. 
 Times were too good, perhaps. In retrospect, the name probably should have been changed. Chilean sea bass would not have eclipsed the catfish if it were still known as the Patagonian toothfish, nor would orange roughy have become so esteemed as the slimehead.
 ''We didn't focus on the market or on the product,'' said Mr. Stevens, the processing factory president. ''We're the first culprits here.''
 The industry's decline accelerated when producers from Vietnam and China flooded the domestic market, putting a ceiling on prices.
 Efforts by American producers to portray the imports as unclean and potentially unsafe did not work. The campaign did, however, achieve a measure of vindication last summer when the Food and Drug Administration announced broader import controls on Chinese seafood, including catfish, saying tests had shown the fish were contaminated with antimicrobial agents.
 Rising feed prices were the final straw for Dillard & Company, which decided to close last January. Eighty of its 10- to 20-acre pools are empty already. An additional 170 will follow as soon as their fish are big enough to sell.
 ''It's easy. You just pull the plug,'' Mr. King said, surveying a pool that was nearly dry. Nearby, half a dozen men were running their nets through a pond, then hoisting the last of its catfish onto a truck.
 ''I've been doing this for 23 years,'' said one of the workers, Craig Morgan. ''I don't know what I'll do now. And there are a bunch of me's out there.''
 It is unclear what can replace catfish as easily as catfish replaced cotton. Attempts to make a tourist industry out of the fact that the delta was the birthplace of the blues are still embryonic. 
 ''If we don't do something, there will be nothing but tumbleweed here,'' Jimmy Donahoo, a former catfish farmer, said. He, like others in the industry, thinks the producers should be supported by government subsidies, just like other farmers.
 At Dillard & Company, they are not waiting for help.
 ''You focus your resources where you can maximize your profits,'' Mr. King said. All the empty ponds will be planted with soybeans and corn, those two commodities for which there seems boundless appetite. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Henry Boykin, left, and John Anderson hauling catfish in a pond that is scheduled to be drained.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Keith King, the president of Dillard & Company, in a former catfish pond that will be planted with soybeans or corn crops.
 A tractor testing to see if a drained Dillard & Company pond is dry enough for planting.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL PRICES (94%); AQUACULTURE (92%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); FINFISH FARMING (90%); FISHES (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); COMMERCIAL FISHING TRADE (79%); HOG & PIG FARMING (78%); SOYBEAN FARMING (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); CORN FARMING (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); PORK (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); ETHANOL (74%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (74%); ALCOHOLS (74%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (67%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (67%)

PERSON: JOHN ANDERSON (77%); R JOHN ANDERSON (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



433 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Chief Struggles to Revive Merrill Lynch

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
John A. Thain never said that turning around Merrill Lynch would be easy. ''We have not seen the bottom,'' he declared in December, when he took the reins of the troubled Wall Street giant.
 But not even Mr. Thain expected Merrill, the nation's largest brokerage firm, to go downhill so fast or so far. On Thursday, Merrill reported its fourth consecutive quarterly loss, a $4.9 billion deficit that exceeded even the most pessimistic forecasts. 
 The numbers are staggering. During the past 12 months, Merrill, known for its ''Thundering Herd'' of stockbrokers, has lost about $19.2 billion, which works out to about $52 million a day. It suffered $9.7 billion of write-downs in its latest quarter, bringing its charges since the credit crisis first flared last summer to more than $41 billion. 
 It is quite a comedown for Mr. Thain, 53, who won praise for revitalizing the embattled New York Stock Exchange before taking the top job at Merrill. 
 The firm's problems underscore how bankers and policy makers are struggling to contain the damage to the financial system and the broader economy caused by the collapse of housing-related debt. 
 ''I'm generally a very optimistic guy, but this is as difficult a market environment as I've seen in my entire career,'' Mr. Thain said in an interview Thursday evening. The turmoil in the markets, he said, was likely to persist into next year. 
 The magnitude of the problems seems to have caught Mr. Thain by surprise. Just a few months ago he assured investors that Merrill did not need to raise more capital. ''We're very confident that we have the capital base now that we need to go forward in 2008,'' he said in January.
 But with the red ink deepening, Merrill is again moving to shore up its weakened finances. The firm said Thursday that it was selling its stake in Bloomberg L.P., the news and data company founded by Michael R. Bloomberg, the mayor of New York, as well as its controlling interest in Financial Data Services. 
 Merrill's results, reported after the close of trading on Thursday, could depress financial shares when the market opens on Friday morning. Merrill's share price fell as much as 7 percent in after-hours trading on Thursday, after closing up $2.73 at $30.73. Citigroup, as well, is expected to announce large credit losses in its earnings report Friday morning.
 At the core of Merrill's problems are mortgage-linked investments that the firm amassed under Mr. Thain's predecessor, E. Stanley O'Neal. These investments continued to erode in value in the second quarter, putting the firm in a desperate position. As Merrill executives tallied the write-downs, they realized they would need more capital -- fast. 
 Mr. Thain has raised $15.5 billion of capital since he came to Merrill. In January, he protected new equity investors from stock dilution, making it very expensive for Merrill to raise more equity. At the time, Merrill executives believed the firm had marked down its mortgage assets so much that it was unlikely their value would deteriorate even more. 
 But deteriorate they did. So in June Mr. Thain dispatched Gregory Fleming, the company's president and chief operating officer, to negotiate the sale of some of Merrill's most valuable assets, including its 20 percent stake in Bloomberg, which Merrill bought in the 1980s. Merrill closed that deal for $4.425 billion with Bloomberg on Thursday. Merrill has also negotiated a pending sale of its stake in Financial Data, a back-office subsidiary. 
 Mr. Fleming also held a series of negotiations to sell part of Merrill's 49 percent stake in BlackRock, the asset management company, a step that briefly strained relations between Merrill and BlackRock. 
 Mr. Thain told analysts on June 11 that he might sell the stake, without first warning Laurence D. Fink, the head of BlackRock. The two chiefs have since smoothed things over and on Thursday announced that the firms would extend their distribution agreement for four more years, putting BlackRock investment funds into the hands of financial advisers at Merrill.
 ''We did some soul-searching together, and we said this is an important relationship,'' said Mr. Fink, whom Mr. Thain beat out last fall for the top job at Merrill.
 Mr. Thain, sometimes called Mr. Fix-It because of his work at the Big Board, said he never anticipated that mortgage prices would spiral as far as they have. 
 A technocrat by nature, Mr. Thain is very familiar with mortgage bonds from his days on Goldman Sachs's mortgage trading desk in the 1980s. Now, during conference calls with analysts, it is usually Mr. Thain, not Merrill's chief financial officer, who jumps in to answer questions. And Merrill employees say that he provides details rather than fluff in employee meetings.
 Asked on Thursday where mortgage investments were headed, Mr. Thain was reluctant to go beyond the obvious: it will be hard for these investments to decline again as much as they did in the past six months. 
 Understandably, Mr. Thain tries to focus attention on Merrill's current businesses, which had $7.5 billion in revenue in the quarter, a 21 percent drop from the same period a year ago but an improvement from the previous quarter. Some bright areas include interest rates, currencies and commodities trading and global wealth management, which includes its Main Street retail operation of financial advising. 
 Mr. Thain, who has been criticized for reversing himself on plans to raise money, was careful on Thursday to say ''right now'' when he talked about the firm's capital needs. He acknowledged that he could be back in the seller's booth next quarter if asset values deteriorate. 
 But Mr. Thain disagreed with analysts who say Merrill has run out of assets to sell. 
 ''We have a trillion-dollar balance sheet,'' he said. ''There are in fact other options you guys have never heard of.''
 In a conference call, one analyst suggested that Mr. Thain could end Merrill's pain once and for all by purging the rest of its mortgage assets. 
 ''With your reputation, I can imagine you're incredibly frustrated,'' said the analyst, Meredith Whitney of Oppenheimer & Company.
 ''I agree with you on the frustration part,'' Mr. Thain replied.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Merrill Lynch hoped John A. Thain would be its Mr. Fix-It.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Merrill Lynch holds a 49 percent stake in BlackRock, the asset management company, which is led by Laurence D. Fink. Merrill had considered selling its stake, but then decided against it.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); BLOOMBERG LP (85%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (85%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: JOHN THAIN (90%); LAURENCE D FINK (59%); STAN O'NEAL (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



434 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: L-ish Economic Prospects

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Home prices are in free fall. Unemployment is rising. Consumer confidence is plumbing depths not seen since 1980. When will it all end?
 The answer is, probably not until 2010 or later. Barack Obama, take notice.
 It's true that some prognosticators still expect a ''V-shaped'' recovery in which the economy springs back rapidly from its slump. On this view, any day now it will be morning in America.
 But if the experience of the last 20 years is any guide, the prospect for the economy isn't V-shaped, it's L-ish: rather than springing back, we'll have a prolonged period of flat or at best slowly improving performance. 
 Let's start with housing. 
 According to the widely used Case-Shiller index, average U.S. home prices fell 17 percent over the past year. Yet we're in the process of deflating a huge housing bubble, and housing prices probably still have a long way to fall.
 Specifically, real home prices, that is, prices adjusted for inflation in the rest of the economy, went up more than 70 percent from 2000 to 2006. Since then they've come way down -- but they're still more than 30 percent above the 2000 level.
 Should we expect prices to fall all the way back? Well, in the late 1980s, Los Angeles experienced a large localized housing bubble: real home prices rose about 50 percent before the bubble popped. Home prices then proceeded to fall by a quarter, which combined with ongoing inflation brought real housing prices right back to their prebubble level.
 And here's the thing: this process took more than five years -- L.A. home prices didn't bottom out until the mid-1990s. If the current housing slump runs on the same schedule, we won't be seeing a recovery until 2011 or later. 
 What about the broader economy? You might be tempted to take comfort from the fact that the last two recessions, in 1990-1991 and 2001, were both quite short. But in each case, the official end of the recession was followed by a long period of sluggish economic growth and rising unemployment that felt to most Americans like a continued recession.
 Thus, the 1990 recession officially ended in March 1991, but unemployment kept rising through much of 1992, allowing Bill Clinton to win the election on the basis of the economy, stupid. The next recession officially began in March 2001 and ended in November, but unemployment kept rising until June 2003.
 These prolonged recession-like episodes probably reflect the changing nature of the business cycle. Earlier recessions were more or less deliberately engineered by the Federal Reserve, which raised interest rates to control inflation. Modern slumps, by contrast, have been hangovers from bouts of irrational exuberance -- the savings and loan free-for-all of the 1980s, the technology bubble of the 1990s and now the housing bubble. 
 Ending those old-fashioned recessions was easy because all the Fed had to do was relent. Ending modern slumps is much more difficult because the economy needs to find something to replace the burst bubble. 
 The Fed, in particular, has a hard time getting traction in modern recessions. In 2002, there was a strong sense that the Fed was ''pushing on a string'': it kept cutting interest rates, but nobody wanted to borrow until the housing bubble took off. And now it's happening again. The Onion, as usual, hit the nail on the head with its recent headline: ''Recession-plagued nation demands new bubble to invest in.'' 
 But we probably won't find another bubble -- at least not one big enough to fuel a quick recovery. And this has, among other things, important political implications. 
 Given the state of the economy, it's hard to see how Barack Obama can lose the 2008 election. An anecdote: This week a passing motorist shouted at a crowd waiting outside a branch of IndyMac, the failed bank, ''Bush economics didn't work! They are right-wing Republican thieves!'' The crowd cheered.
 But what the economy gives, it can also take away. If the current slump follows the typical modern pattern, the economy will stay depressed well into 2010, if not beyond -- plenty of time for the public to start blaming the new incumbent, and punish him in the midterm elections.
 To avoid that fate, Mr. Obama -- if he is indeed the next president -- will have to move quickly and forcefully to address America's economic discontent. That means another stimulus plan, bigger, better, and more sustained than the one Congress passed earlier this year. It also means passing longer-term measures to reduce economic anxiety -- above all, universal health care.
 If you ask me, there isn't much suspense in this year's election: barring some extraordinary mistakes, Mr. Obama will win. Assuming he wins, the real question is what he'll make of his victory. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (94%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); INFLATION (89%); RECESSION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



435 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Gore Calls for Energy Shift To Avoid a Global Crisis

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Former Vice President Al Gore on Thursday urged the United States to wean the nation from its entire electricity grid to carbon-free energy within 10 years, warning that drastic steps were needed to avoid a global economic and ecological cataclysm.
 Like a modern Jeremiah, Mr. Gore called down thunder to justify the spending of trillions of dollars to remake the American power system, a plan fraught with technological and political challenges that goes far beyond the changes recently debated in Congress and by world leaders. 
 ''The survival of the United States of America as we know it is at risk,'' he said in a midday speech to a friendly crowd of mostly young supporters in Washington. ''And even more -- if more should be required -- the future of human civilization is at stake.''
 Mr. Gore, who shared the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007 for his environmental advocacy, said in an interview that he hoped to raise the alarm so that the next president, whether Senator Barack Obama or Senator John McCain, could rally Congress and the nation to action. He disavowed any interest in returning to elective office.
 His approach, which would require abandoning old-fashioned, coal-fired power plants, goes beyond what even the most audacious scientists and entrepreneurs have proposed, as a means, he said, of jolting the world out of old ways of thinking. Without great dreams, he said, great deeds are never achieved, citing the quest for the Moon in the 1960s.
 ''I see my role as enlarging the political space in which Senator Obama or Senator McCain can confront this issue as president next year,'' Mr. Gore said.
 He said the United States and the rest of the world were facing unprecedented problems, including growing demand for electricity, dangerous changes in the climate driven largely by emissions of carbon dioxide and political instability in regions that produce much of the world's oil.
 ''When we look at all three of these seemingly intractable challenges at the same time, we can see the common thread running through them, deeply ironic in its simplicity: our dangerous over-reliance on carbon-based fuels is at the core of all three of these challenges -- the economic, environmental and national security crises,'' Mr. Gore said. ''We're borrowing money from China to buy oil from the Persian Gulf to burn it in ways that destroy the planet. Every bit of that has to change.'' 
 His solution was to do away with all carbon-emitting forms of electricity production in the United States within 10 years, replacing them with alternatives like solar, wind and geothermal power, conservation and so-called clean-coal technology in which all carbon emissions from the burning of coal are captured and stored. It is a bold, and some say, unrealistic goal given the tremendous cost and the nation's fractious politics.
 Mr. Gore admitted his plan would, at least initially, drive energy prices higher. But he proposed a payroll tax cut to offset higher prices for fuel and electricity.
 He said he envisioned nuclear power retaining its current share of domestic electricity generation, about 20 percent. Coal, which now produces about half of American electricity, would dwindle, while renewable sources, now producing less than 3 percent of the nation's electricity, would rapidly grow. (Natural gas and hydroelectric dams provide most of the remainder of the nation's electricity, relatively little of which comes from burning oil.)
 Mr. Gore, who was awarded the Nobel Prize last October, is the most vocal in a growing chorus calling for a green energy revolution. The Texas oilman Boone Pickens has proposed converting a large portion of the American transportation fleet to run on compressed natural gas while spending billions on new wind farms to produce electricity. Even those who share Mr. Gore's ideals expressed skepticism that his goal could be achieved in 10 years.
 ''Mr. Gore is continuing his talent of identifying the key challenges, emphasizing urgency and translating it to a broad audience. That's terrific,'' said Ernest J. Moniz, director of the energy initiative at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a former under secretary at the Department of Energy in the Clinton administration. ''Everyone agrees that the solution to the climate challenge is decarbonization and the first place to go is the electricity sector. Can we get there that fast? Obviously it's very, very tough.''
 Last winter, the House failed to enact legislation to require utilities to produce 15 percent of their electricity from renewable sources by 2020. Last month, supporters could not even get a Senate vote on a climate change plan that would cut greenhouse gas emissions by nearly 70 percent by 2050. Mr. Gore was undeterred.
 ''To those who say 10 years is not enough time, I respectfully ask them to consider seriously what the world's scientists are telling us about the risks we face if we don't act in less than 10 years,'' he said.
 He noted that the United States uses only a tiny fraction of the wind, solar and geothermal power available. He said entrepreneurs were investing billions of dollars in new technology and rapidly bringing down the cost of all alternative energy sources.
 Mr. Gore said he had spoken about his plan this week with Senators Obama and McCain, the likely Democratic and Republican presidential nominees, but declined to detail their responses. Mr. Gore noted that Bob Barr, the former Republican congressman from Georgia and the Libertarian Party candidate for president, attended the speech on Thursday.
 Mr. Obama, in a written statement, said: ''For decades, Al Gore has challenged the skeptics in Washington on climate change and awakened the conscience of a nation to the urgency of this threat. I strongly agree with Vice President Gore that we cannot drill our way to energy independence, but must fast-track investments in renewable sources of energy like solar power, wind power and advanced biofuels, and those are the investments I will make as president.''
 Tucker Bounds, a McCain spokesman, said: ''John McCain has been a leader in the fight against global climate change, working with Democrats on this issue since 2003, but no one has more successfully recruited Americans into this effort than Al Gore. This is a key issue, and John McCain has put solutions over partisanship to pursue meaningful, market-driven cap and trade legislation aimed at drastically reducing harmful carbon emissions.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Former Vice President Al Gore called on Thursday at Constitution Hall in Washington for a shift in the nation's energy policy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); WIND ENERGY (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (77%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); COAL INDUSTRY (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (68%); GREENHOUSE GASES (67%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (66%)

PERSON: AL GORE (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (72%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



436 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Bills to Rein In Energy Speculators Worry Financial Industry

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
Financial industry executives are mustering on Capitol Hill to head off a Congressional effort to rewrite the rules for the nation's energy markets, saying it could unsettle already nervous markets and push more energy trading abroad, beyond the reach of domestic regulators.
 The primary focus of Wall Street's concern is a bill entitled the Stop Excessive Energy Speculation Act of 2008, introduced on Tuesday by a group of Democratic senators led by Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader. 
 The bill would substantially broaden federal regulators' authority over the vast marketplace for privately negotiated derivatives, called swaps. It also would limit the stakes that speculators and other noncommercial energy traders could take, both in private transactions and in the public futures markets, which allow oil producers and users to hedge their price risks.
 And it would require regulators to distinguish between ''legitimate'' and ''nonlegitimate'' hedging transactions and subject the latter to increased scrutiny and tighter market limits.
 Since the bill's introduction, lobbyists for the futures industry and other institutional interests in the energy markets have significantly bolstered their efforts in Washington.
 But their concerns are colliding with the determination of lawmakers, who have held more than 40 hearings on ''excessive speculation'' this year, to take some legislative action to address the economic pain being inflicted on consumers by soaring oil and gas prices.
 ''This issue is so serious,'' said Gregory Zerzan, counsel and head of global public policy for the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, ''that the senior businesspeople on Wall Street are weighing in to make sure that Congress is fully aware of the potential economic consequences of going too far.'' 
 Supporters of the Reid bill say it will address the runaway speculation they blame for as much as 30 percent of the price of crude oil, which fell Thursday for the third consecutive day to about $129 a barrel. It would also substantially increase staff levels at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which regulates these markets.
 ''Right now, Wall Street traders can raise oil and gas prices simply by logging onto their computers and executing a few trades,'' Mr. Reid said at a news conference Thursday. 
 ''We're not saying that all speculation is bad,'' he added. ''But without proper market oversight, speculation has gotten out of hand, and that is one reason for record gas prices.''
 Privately, both lawmakers and lobbyists agree that the bill is one piece in a complicated Congressional chess game involving offshore drilling, the nation's federally owned oil reserves and the November election.
 A bill supported by Senate Republicans, led by Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, would also increase funds for regulators and require them to gather more information about trading activity. 
 But it focuses primarily on promoting deep-sea exploration and drilling, oil shale exploration and electric vehicle research. 
 ''No reputable economist thinks speculators alone are the reason for the spike in gas prices,'' Mr. McConnell said Thursday.
 A focus in Congressional hearings on oil market speculation is the sharp increase in the amount of money that pension funds, endowments and other institutional investors have steered into the commodity markets. 
 Some of that money -- hundreds of billions of dollars, by some estimates -- has poured in through trades designed to hedge the obligations of funds that track popular commodity indexes.
 That is a form of trading that some critics say should be banished from the commodity futures market entirely. The Reid bill does not do that, but does require that such index-hedging trades be subject to tighter speculative limits.
 The difficulties of distinguishing among financial and commercial hedgers would be enormous, several critics of the legislation said. A farmer trying to hedge against a fertilizer price increase, for example, may rely on a natural gas futures contract -- but, under these rules, he would be considered a speculator. 
 And so would the financial institutions trying to facilitate his trading, either on public exchanges or through private transactions in the ''over the counter'' swaps market.
 In an open letter to Congress Thursday, Robert G. Pickel, chief executive of the swaps industry's trade association, argued that the Reid proposal ''could actually make things far worse'' for consumers by impairing the effectiveness of the hedging markets.
 Of concern to the swaps dealers, Mr. Pickel noted, is a provision in the bill that would allow commodity regulators to order companies to liquidate their swaps transactions if it concludes that a major market disturbance has occurred. 
 In effect, he said, this would require companies ''to break their privately negotiated risk management contracts,'' even if the swap complied with trading limits that were in place when it was originally negotiated.
 The Futures Industry Association, which represents futures brokers and derivatives exchanges in more than 20 countries, has also expressed its opposition to the bill, saying it ''would amount to liquidity-robbing, regulatory overkill.'' 
 The bill also would limit the ability of investors in the United States to trade directly on foreign futures exchanges. Supporters say that most of those provisions codify information-sharing arrangements that regulators have already negotiated with their foreign counterparts. But some exchange officials have warned that foreign countries could retaliate by limiting the international expansion of exchanges based in the United States.
 Professor James Angel at Georgetown, a financial markets specialist who testified at one of the many hearings examining the energy markets, had a more temperate view of the Reid bill. 
 ''It's a not-too-bad response,'' he said, noting that it gives regulators enough discretion to avoid some of the most devastating consequences. ''How it is implemented will be the test.''
 According to several legislative aides, no vote is likely on the legislation until Tuesday, giving ample time for negotiation across the aisle and with sponsors of similar proposals in the House.
 A speedy conclusion to the debate would be welcome in the markets, some commodity analysts said. Researchers at Barclays Capital, in their weekly oil market review, complained that ''lawmakers are no longer largely neutral bystanders to the oil market but have instead become a source of uncertainty.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Mitch McConnell backs a bill that promotes electric vehicle research.
 Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, is a sponsor of a bill that would increase scrutiny of energy markets.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); FUTURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (88%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (88%); GASOLINE PRICES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (74%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

COMPANY: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (52%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (89%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



437 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Considers Opening A Diplomatic Post in Iran

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO and SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is considering establishing an American diplomatic presence in Iran for the first time since relations were severed during the 444-day occupation of the American Embassy in Tehran nearly three decades ago, European and American officials said on Thursday.
 The idea would be to establish a so-called interests section, rather than a fully staffed embassy, with American diplomats who could issue visas to Iranians seeking to visit the United States. But the officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity under diplomatic rules, cautioned that the idea had not been approved by the White House and could be delayed or blocked by opposition within the administration. 
 The proposal comes as the White House is adopting new tactics in dealing with Iran. With six months left in office, Mr. Bush and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice appear to be looking for new ways to reach out to the Iranian people as the administration tries to bring a peaceful resolution to the impasse over Iran's nuclear program. 
 On Saturday, William J. Burns, the State Department's third-ranking official, is to arrive in Geneva to participate, along with European Union nations, in talks with Iran aimed at persuading it to suspend uranium enrichment in exchange for economic and political incentives. The talks are a first. A department spokesman, Sean McCormack, said on Thursday that an interests section would not be discussed.
 One senior European official said that Mr. Burns, the under secretary of state for political affairs, had told a number of his counterparts in Tokyo in recent weeks that Ms. Rice was committed to moving forward on the decision to put American diplomats in Tehran, but that the decision still faced opposition from conservatives. 
 ''My feeling is that the decision was more or less taken and the administration's problem was when and how to announce it,'' the official said. ''They want to do it, but for domestic political reasons they don't know how and when, and maybe even if, they can do it.'' 
 In Washington on Thursday, the White House and State Department declined to comment, saying they would not discuss internal deliberations. But they did not discount reports that the idea was under consideration.
 ''We are always looking for ways to engage the people of Iran more, make it easier for them to get visas,'' said Gordon D. Johndroe, the deputy White House press secretary.
 Iran, for its part, seems to have embraced the idea of a higher American diplomatic presence.
 ''We welcome any move which would expand human relations,'' President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said on state television this week.
 But when Manouchehr Mottaki, the foreign minister, was asked about the idea during a news conference in Damascus, Syria, he pointed out, ''The request of the United States has been made via the media in a nonofficial fashion.'' 
 Mr. Bush has long said he has no complaint with the Iranian people. His issue, he has said, is with the Iranian government. Ms. Rice echoed that sentiment last week in an interview with the Persian-language service of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. She said no final decision had been made on an interests section, ''but we are looking for ways that Iranians can have access to the United States.''
 There is a small interests section in Tehran administered by the Swiss, who represent American interests in Iran. The Swiss do not have the authority to grant United States visas. Last week, Mr. Burns testified before Congress and was asked about the possibility of establishing an interests section. He seemed to suggest it was under consideration.
 He said the idea ''is an interesting one, and it's one that's worth looking at carefully.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); CONSERVATISM (65%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN (88%); SYRIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); JAPAN (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



438 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: Cast of 300 Advises Obama on Foreign Policy

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Every day around 8 a.m., foreign policy aides at Senator Barack Obama's Chicago campaign headquarters send him two e-mails: a briefing on major world developments over the previous 24 hours and a set of questions, accompanied by suggested answers, that the candidate is likely to be asked about international relations during the day. 
 One recent Q. & A. asked, for example, whether Mr. Obama supported the decision by Iraq's prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, to include a timetable for American troop withdrawal in any new security agreements with the United States. The answer, provided to Mr. Obama with bullet points, was yes -- or ''a genuine opportunity,'' as he put it in a speech on Iraq this week.
 Behind the e-mail messages is a tight-knit group of aides supported by a huge 300-person foreign policy campaign bureaucracy, organized like a mini State Department, to assist a candidate whose limited national security experience remains a concern to many voters. 
 ''It is unwieldy, no question,'' said Denis McDonough, 38, Mr. Obama's top foreign policy aide, speaking of an infrastructure that has been divided into 20 teams based on regions and issues, and that has recently absorbed, with some tensions, the top foreign policy advisers from Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's presidential campaign. ''But an administration is unwieldy, too. We also know that it's messier when you don't get as much information as you can.''
 The group is on the spot this week as Mr. Obama is planning to make his first overseas foray as the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, with voters at home and leaders abroad watching closely to see how he handles himself on the global stage. 
 Unlike George W. Bush, who entered the presidential race in 2000 with scant exposure to national security issues, Mr. Obama has served since his election to the Senate in 2004 on the Foreign Relations Committee and has had a running tutorial from aides steeped in the issues. His campaign says that he is well prepared and that he often alters and expands on the talking points provided to him by his foreign policy advisers.
 Most of the core members of his team served in government during President Bill Clinton's administration and by and large were junior to the advisers who worked on Mrs. Clinton's campaign for the Democratic nomination. But they remain in charge within the campaign even as it takes on more senior figures from the Clinton era, like two former secretaries of state, Madeleine K. Albright and Warren Christopher, and are positioned to put their own stamp on the party's foreign policy. 
 Most of them, like the candidate they are working for, distinguished themselves from Mrs. Clinton's foreign policy camp by early opposition to the Iraq war. They also tend to be more liberal and to emphasize using the ''soft power'' of diplomacy and economic aid to try to advance the interests of the United States. Still, their positions fall well within centrist Democratic foreign policy thinking, and none of the deep policy fissures that have divided the Republicans into two camps, the neoconservatives and the so-called pragmatists, have opened.
 Mr. Obama's core team is led by Susan E. Rice, an assistant secretary of state for African affairs in the Clinton administration, who has pushed for a tougher response to the crisis in the Darfur region of Sudan, and Anthony Lake, Mr. Clinton's first national security adviser, who was criticized for the administration's failure to confront the genocide in Rwanda in 1994 and now acknowledges the inaction as a major mistake. 
 The core group also includes Gregory B. Craig, a former top official in the Clinton State Department who served as the president's lawyer during his impeachment trial; Richard J. Danzig, a Navy secretary in the Clinton administration; Mark W. Lippert, Mr. Obama's former Senate foreign policy adviser, who just returned from a Navy tour of duty in Iraq; and Mr. McDonough.
 Mr. McDonough and Mr. Lippert are paid by the campaign and based in Chicago, and the rest are outside advisers who volunteer their time from Washington.
 The group no longer includes Samantha Power, the Pulitzer Prize-winning Harvard human rights expert who resigned in March after she was quoted calling Mrs. Clinton a ''monster.'' But Mr. Lake still talks to Ms. Power, and Mr. Obama sent a long personal tribute that was read at her wedding in Ireland this month.
 Mr. Obama's Republican rival, Senator John McCain of Arizona, has a far smaller and looser foreign policy advisory operation, about 75 people in all, and none are organized into teams. In 2004, the Democratic presidential nominee, Senator John Kerry, had a foreign policy structure similar in scale to Mr. Obama's, but it had limited influence on the candidate, who had spent 20 years in the Senate, former advisers said. Mr. Obama is not yet receiving the government intelligence briefing that is typically made available to a presidential candidate upon becoming his party's nominee. 
 Mr. Obama's infrastructure funnels hundreds of e-mail messages and reams of position papers and talking points each day to members of the core group, who in turn seek advice or make requests for more information to team members down the line. Dennis Ross, the Middle East envoy for Mr. Clinton and the first President Bush and a member of the Obama campaign's Middle East team, is frequently asked by Ms. Rice, Mr. Lake or Mr. McDonough for help on framing Mr. Obama's comments on Iran's nuclear program and its potential threat to Israel.
 ''They've asked for substantive help: 'Can I take a look at language on Iran?' '' Mr. Ross said. ''Or sometimes I've been asked questions to explain the administration's approach on Iran.'' Mr. Ross participated in a conference call last week with Mr. Obama and other advisers to prepare for the senator's foreign trip, and he will travel with Mr. Obama in Israel and the West Bank city of Ramallah and at other stops. Mr. Ross described Mr. Obama in the conference call as focused on ''drilling down'' into the issues on the trip.
 Another person who has contributed outside advice is former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, whom Mr. Obama has been wooing. Mr. Powell, a Republican, has a friendship of decades with Mr. McCain, but friends say he has felt excluded from Mr. McCain's foreign policy operation and was impressed when Mr. Obama called on him in June. Mr. Powell also met around the same time with Mr. McCain.
 From day to day, the main point of contact with Mr. Obama and his foreign policy team is Mr. McDonough, who is soon to be joined in Chicago by Mr. Lippert. ''If there's something big in the morning, we will either e-mail or call Obama,'' said Mr. Lippert, who performed a similar job, although on a smaller scale, when he was Mr. Obama's foreign policy adviser in the Senate. ''So instead of having 20 people at your fingertips, you have 300. The pressure is there, the time is much shorter, but the principle is the same -- lining up the calls, briefing the candidate, e-mails, op-eds, statements.''
 Out in the netherworld of the 300, advisers often say they are unclear about what happens to all the policy paragraphs they churn out on request. ''It's all mysterious what we send him and what gets to him,'' said Michael A. McFaul, a Russia scholar at Stanford University who leads the Russia and Eurasia team for the Obama campaign.
 Other team leaders include Ivo H. Daalder, a scholar at the Brookings Institution who has organized his 40-member nuclear nonproliferation team into eight working groups, and Philip H. Gordon, another scholar at the institution, who is in charge ofMr. Obama's Europe team. 
 Although Mr. Obama's team has yet to show any public evidence of deep policy divisions, it has its share of personal tensions, not least those born of integrating Mrs. Clinton's former advisers into the effort. In that process, the old Clinton administration hierarchy has been turned upside down.
 One person who is not a team leader -- and who was not included in a 13-member ''senior working group'' that the Obama campaign announced last month -- is Richard Holbrooke, a United Nations ambassador under Mr. Clinton who was mentioned as a potential secretary of state if Mrs. Clinton had won the presidency. Mr. Holbrooke has long had a rivalry with Mr. Lake, who was widely criticized in Washington for his performance as national security adviser in the Clinton White House. 
 The Obama campaign has since said that Mr. Holbrooke, who mediated an end to the war in Bosnia in 1995, is on the team. But Mr. Holbrooke, who declined to comment, has found himself in the position of a general from a defeated army who must now seek peace. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Susan E. Rice: Assistant secretary of state for African affairs, 1997- Jan. 2001. Top national security adviser in Senator John Kerry's 2004 campaign.
Anthony Lake: National security adviser to Mr. Clinton, 1993-1997. Top foreign policy adviser in Mr. Clinton's 1992 campaign.
Gregory B. Craig: White House special counsel during Mr. Clinton's impeachment in 1999. Worked in the State Department from 1997 to 1998.
Richard J. Danzig: Under secretary of the Navy during Mr. Clinton's first term and secretary of the Navy during the second term.
Denis McDonough: Worked as foreign policy adviser to Democratic members of Congress. Former House International Relations Committee staff member.
Mark W. Lippert: Mr. Obama's former chief Senate aide for foreign policy and a Navy reservist who just returned from a tour of duty in Iraq.
Jeffrey A. Bader: National Security Council's director of Asian Affairs, 1997-1999. Assistant United States trade representative for China, 2001-2002.
Bruce Riedel: Worked in the Defense Department and National Security Council during the Clinton years. Former official at the Central Intelligence Agency.
Philip H. Gordon: National Security Council's director of European affairs, 1998-1999. Also an expert on the Middle East and terrorism.
Dennis Ross: Diplomat who was involved in Middle East peace talks for the administrations of former President George Bush and Mr. Clinton.
Michael A. McFaul: Associate professor of political science at Stanford University. Author of several books on Russian politics and history.
Ivo H. Daalder: National Security Council's director of European affairs, 1995-1996
coordinated American policy on Bosnia.
David L. Boren: Former senator from Oklahoma and former governor of the state.
Tom Daschle: Former Senate majority leader from South Dakota.
Jack Reed: Senator from Rhode Island. Traveling with Mr. Obama to Iraq and Afghanistan.
Maj. Gen. Scott: Gration Retired from the Air Force.
Lee H. Hamilton: Co-chaired the 9/11 commission. Former Indiana congressman.
Sam Nunn: Former four-term senator from Georgia.
William J. Perry: Defense secretary during Mr. Clinton's first term.
Warren Christopher: Secretary of state during Mr. Clinton's first term.
 Madeleine K. Albright: Secretary of state during Mr. Clinton's second term.(pg. A16) CHART: The Roster of Experts: Many key members of Senator Barack Obama's foreign policy team served in government during President Bill Clinton's administration (highlighted in gray). (pg. A16) Chart details various experts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); FOREIGN POLICY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); US NAVY (84%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); US AIR FORCE (59%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (87%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JACK REED (73%); GREG CRAIG (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); SUSAN RICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



439 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Paterson, Addressing N.A.A.C.P., Warns of Racism's Lingering Power

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: CINCINNATI 

 BODY:
David A. Paterson, in his first major speech to a national audience since becoming governor of New York, said on Thursday that even as black Americans rejoice about the possibility that Senator Barack Obama could become president, they cannot lose sight of the serious social and economic ills that plague their community and should remain mindful of the racism that still exists.
 ''The gap between the haves and have-nots right in our own community is wider than it has ever been before,'' Mr. Paterson told a crowd of thousands at the N.A.A.C.P.'s annual convention here. 
 ''No matter how prosperous we are, no matter how well heeled we may be, no matter how ambitious and successful we have been, we still can be cast under the same net regardless of our circumstances.''
 Mr. Paterson, who is New York's first black governor and only the third black man since Reconstruction to lead a state, addressed the convention as the intersection between race and politics in the United States appears especially fraught. Recent polls have shown that whites and blacks hold very different views of Mr. Obama, and that despite the senator's candidacy, blacks do not believe that race relations have significantly improved.
 Addressing those fissures in his speech, the governor said that he was not sure whether Americans would be able to put their differences aside in this election and support Mr. Obama.
 ''Can America reject the crucible of race that has dictated and pervaded all of our history to embrace an African-American man who has the right policies?'' he said. ''We will find out.''
 The speech demonstrated how Mr. Paterson, a 54-year-old Harlem Democrat who never experienced the days of segregated lunch counters but still felt the sting of discrimination during his Long Island boyhood, has taken lessons from the civil rights struggle of his parents' generation and melded them with the experiences of his and younger generations of blacks, who he said too often play down racism's lingering taint.
 ''This is why the Jewish community has the motto, 'Never again,' '' Mr. Paterson said in an interview after his speech, as he rode in a car through downtown Cincinnati. ''There are those who, if they had their way, would return us to an era of separate but equal.''
 Mr. Paterson's speech was interrupted repeatedly by applause and enthusiastic cries of ''Yes we can!'' the common refrain of Mr. Obama's supporters. His trip to Cincinnati was part of an effort by his advisers to raise his profile, and after he spoke at the convention he gave interviews to National Public Radio and MSNBC, among other media.
 Mr. Paterson said he often felt pulled between two generations of black Americans: those who grew up fighting for civil rights and those who grew up benefiting from their parents' victories. He said that he understood where the complacency that some younger blacks feel about civil rights comes from, but that he thinks it borders on ignorance.
 ''The struggle was clear in that generation,'' he said. ''If you sit in the back of the bus, you know you're in the back of the bus. If there's a 'whites only' sign, you know you can't go in.'' But coming of age in the 1970s, as he did, when racism was less pervasive than in the first half of the 20th century, some of his peers lost perspective, Mr. Paterson said.
 ''What you had were a number of people who thought this struggle didn't affect them,'' he said. ''They were the beneficiaries of it. And the fact that they could be comfortable saying such ignorant things is a testament to how far we've actually come.''
 As easy as he had it compared with his parents, Mr. Paterson said he still encountered some painful instances of discrimination as a boy, which serve as a reminder to him that bias will never truly fade away. He attended grade school on Long Island because the New York City schools did not teach blind students outside of special education. He was one of the first black students to enroll at his elementary school in Hempstead.
 One afternoon when a white friend invited him over to play, a neighbor unaccustomed to seeing black children in the neighborhood accused him of destroying her flower pots, he said. Mr. Paterson said his friend's mother rose to his defense, saying that he had been in the house the entire time. The neighbor responded, according to Mr. Paterson, ''You bring them in this neighborhood, and then you don't want to take responsibility for them.''
 Mr. Paterson's views on discrimination have been shaped by the fact that he is both black and legally blind. He said one of the most painful experiences he had with discrimination came from a black businessman who refused to hire him because of his blindness. 
 ''That's when I realized this is kind of a universal problem that exists, this fear of the unknown, fear of others displaying difference,'' he said. 
 That experience persuaded him to start imploring fellow blacks to examine their own attitudes about prejudice, he said. ''What I could try to be was a symbol of the resistance,'' he said, ''but also one who would point this out internally in our own community.''
 And on Thursday, he seemed to draw on that lesson as he asked black Americans to remember the gulf between prosperous and poor: ''How are some of us, who have many times been luckier than we have been good, going to help those who unfortunately haven't been able to receive prosperity as we have?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson spoke at the N.A.A.C.P. convention in Cincinnati on Thursday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AL BEHRMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (50%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



440 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: Continental Posts a Loss as It Struggles With Fuel Costs

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The earnings pattern continued on Thursday for the airlines.
 Continental Airlines said Thursday that it swung to a loss in the second quarter, hurt by record high fuel prices and weakening economic conditions. 
 For the quarter that ended June 30, Continental, which is based in Houston, said it lost $3 million, or 3 cents a share, compared with a profit of $228 million, or $2.03 a share, a year ago. Excluding $22 million in one-time gains, the carrier lost $25 million, or 25 cents a share, in the latest quarter.
 Those results came a day after the parent of American Airlines, the AMR Corporation, and Delta Air Lines both reported losses topping $1 billion after writing down the value of their jet fleets. But for Continental, the result was far better than expectations. Analysts, who usually exclude one-time items from their calculations, had expected a loss of 49 cents a share, according to a survey by Thomson Financial.
 Revenue rose 9 percent, to $4.04 billion, helped by increased fuel surcharges and international growth. That matched the average forecast of analysts.
 Continental's sales on traffic across the Atlantic and to Latin America grew by about 12 percent, while passenger revenue in the United States rose just 2.1 percent.
 In a regulatory filing, Continental said it ended the second quarter with about $3.4 billion in unrestricted cash and short-term investments. It expects the figure to fall to $2.8 billion from $2.9 billion by the end of the third quarter.
 Airlines are burning through cash as they struggle with high prices for fuel, which has eclipsed labor as their biggest cost. Continental said it spent $1.36 billion on fuel in the second quarter, an increase of 66 percent over the same period last year.
 To cope with higher fuel costs and a weakening economy, the airline is cutting 3,000 jobs -- nearly 7 percent of its work force -- grounding 67 planes and reducing flying in the United States this fall by about 10 percent.
 Continental shares rose 77 cents, or 8.4 percent, to $9.96.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (92%); AIRLINES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%)

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); AMR CORP (83%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); LATIN AMERICA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



441 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Got a Fix? Please, Call the Fed

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at nytimes.com/norris

DATELINE: BERGEN, Norway 

 BODY:
If only Americans were more like Norwegians.
 As President Bush was urging Americans to calm down and take a ''deep breath'' and the former Senator Phil Gramm was saying that Americans were a ''nation of whiners'' about the economy, a Norwegian newspaper was featuring the opinions of Bard Tronvoll, a lecturer at the College of Hedmark, who complained that Norwegians don't complain enough.
 Mr. Tronvoll figures Norwegians would be treated better in stores and restaurants if only they would speak up when they were not satisfied. 
 Perhaps Americans would be in a better mood if their country were a major oil exporter, as Norway is. As it is, Americans visiting here get a sharp reminder of how far the dollar has fallen whenever they see a familiar item. 
 Thanks in part to high value-added taxes, Scandinavia was never cheap, but now prices are amazing. You can get a half-liter bottle of Coke for the equivalent of $4.74. A Big Mac costs $7.90, or double that if you want fries and a soda with it. The cheapest postcard I saw cost 99 cents, plus $2.17 for postage back to the United States.
 Many Americans have bigger economic worries than the cost of a Coke in Scandinavia, of course. They see property values falling and unemployment rising. And things keep getting worse for the financial system, making a severe recession more likely. 
 It was only a year ago that American banks and brokerage firms were reporting huge profits and exuding confidence that their penchant for financial innovation had made them the best in the world. Now they are taking multibillion dollar write-offs, and the president feels called upon to reassure Americans that the financial system is ''basically sound,'' a half-hearted endorsement at best.
 Over at the Securities and Exchange Commission, whose regulation of the big brokerage firms was totally inadequate, the best idea they can come up with is to bolster the share prices of big financial firms by making it harder for speculators to bet against them. That may help stock prices, but it is not a way to persuade anyone that the banks are really healthy.
 Until a couple of weeks ago, a principal element in the government's strategy was to encourage Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored enterprises, to purchase or guarantee more and more mortgage loans, and thus keep credit available as bankers became less willing to lend.
 That was an unlikely strategy for a Republican administration, especially one that had previously wanted to rein in Fannie and Freddie. But perhaps it was no more unorthodox than the decision by Richard Nixon to impose wage and price controls. 
 Now markets are not sure what to think. Financial stocks alternately collapsed and soared this week. Investors hope the stocks are cheap, but they fear that Fannie and Freddie cannot survive without a government bailout. Certainly, it will be extremely costly for them to raise new equity capital, if they can do it at all. 
 The government's short-term solution is to promise to lend $300 billion to Fannie and Freddie, if necessary, and hope that things don't get worse. Anyone who has a long-term solution should contact the Treasury and the Federal Reserve immediately.
 In the meantime, Fannie and Freddie seem likely to be less willing to guarantee mortgages, and to charge more if they do. That will make loans even harder to get. 
 What we have here is a downward spiral, in which every institution wants more liquidity and less leverage. So banks sell assets and demand higher margins from those they have lent to. ''This lowers the price, and forces more sales, increasing margins and creating a vicious cycle,'' Markus K. Brunnermeier, a Princeton economist, said in a recent paper, ''Deciphering the 2007-08 Liquidity and Credit Crunch,'' which provides what may be the best analysis yet of how we got into this mess. 
 Mr. Brunnermeier concludes that this is, in many ways, a classic liquidity crisis, worsened by the extent of securitization, which made it hard to determine underlying values and difficult even to figure out which institution was at risk.
 Many of the securitization strategies used by banks and brokers were aimed at reducing the amount of capital they had to maintain while at the same time allowing them to take on more risks. Regulators knew that, but they had no idea of how severe a problem was being created. It is clear to everyone that, as Mr. Brunnermeier wrote, ''we need to rethink our current regulatory framework to reflect recent financial innovation.''
 But the regulators are in no mood to blame themselves. Instead, the S.E.C. is trying to make it harder to sell short shares in Fannie, Freddie and major banks. Starting Monday, you will have to borrow the shares before making the short sale, rather than simply determine that you can borrow them. The S.E.C. vows to watch carefully to make sure the rule is followed. That will probably raise the cost of borrowing such shares, and it could provide a temporary boost to the share prices.
 But such moves do nothing to either strengthen the underlying balance sheets of the firms involved, or to make them more willing to lend to each other. We know that mortgages were not the only loans made with reckless abandon of credit standards. But we have yet to see how much damage will be caused in such areas as commercial real estate, corporate loans and consumer credit cards if the economy continues to weaken. Nor do we know whether those losses will cause more firms to fail and make their own guarantees, through credit default swaps, worthless.
 Eventually, it is likely that the federal government will find new ways to guarantee hundreds of billions or even trillions in dubious debts, averting the collapse of any big banks at the cost of putting more government money at risk.
 A worldwide economic slowdown is likely to bring inflation down in the near future, despite the bad inflation figures reported this week. But over the longer term, the new government guarantees could cost the government so much that confidence in its credit is damaged, forcing interest rates up in the United States while the dollar falls even lower.
 If that happens, a $5 Coke may seem like a happy memory to the next generation of American tourists in Norway, even if there are not very many of them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (86%); RECESSION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CURRENCIES (74%); EXPORT PRICES (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); RESTAURANTS (70%); VALUE ADDED TAX (69%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); SECURITIES LAW (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (81%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (81%)

PERSON: PHIL GRAMM (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORWAY (98%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



442 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Oil's Fall and Bank Report Lift Shares for Second Day

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; David Jolly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Stocks surged higher for a second day on Thursday as oil prices continued to plunge and Wall Street embraced an encouraging earnings report from a banking stalwart, JPMorgan Chase. 
 The rally in the Dow Jones industrials, which gained more than 200 points, pushed the index out of a bear market. 
 But the rally may struggle to continue on Friday, given the disappointing quarterly results from Google, Merrill Lynch and Microsoft after the market closed. 
 The Dow rose 207.38 points, or 1.85 percent, on Thursday to 11,446.66. Since Wednesday, the Dow has gained nearly 500 points, the biggest two-day percentage gain since Oct. 15, 2002. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed up 14.96 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,260.32, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 27.45 points, or 1.2 percent, to 2,312.30.
 Stocks rose for two reasons, analysts said: a renewed sense of confidence in investment banks and an unusually sharp dip in the price of oil, which plunged more than $5 to end the day under $130 a barrel for the first time in six weeks.
 Analysts believe that the bleak economic outlook is the primary cause for the dip in oil prices. As the economy slows and Americans spend less, analysts expect domestic demand for gasoline to fall. That could lead to a pullback in prices. 
 On Thursday, natural gas futures fell more than 7 percent after the government reported higher supplies than anticipated. Crude oil futures fell $5.31 to settle at $129.29 a barrel, and are down nearly $16 in the last week.
 But as shares of energy companies fell, financial stocks boomed. Shares of Wachovia gained 27 percent. Bank of America rose 17 percent; Morgan Stanley was up 9 percent. It was one of the biggest two-day winning streaks ever for shares of financial services firms.
 The most immediate catalyst was the solid earnings report from JPMorgan. The Wall Street mainstay reported a second-quarter profit of $2 billion, or 54 cents a share, sharply above the 44 cents a share that analysts had expected. The company's stock soared 13.5 percent to $40.80 a share.
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the beleaguered mortgage finance giants that nearly suffered a collapse last week, rebounded for a second day. Freddie Mac shares gained 22 percent to close at $8.33 a share; Fannie Mae rose 18 percent, to finish at $10.93.
 But the woes at Merrill, which reported nearly $10 billion in fresh write-downs and posted its fourth consecutive loss, could spell the end of the good feelings about the financial sector. The poor report may stoke anxieties about the fragility of Wall Street's marquee names, and investors may be eager to cover their exposure heading into the weekend.
 The lift in financial stocks helped push shares higher in Asia and Europe.
 ''After the weekend, people were very nervous about anything related to the U.S. financial sector,'' said Derek Chambers, an analyst at Standard & Poor's Equity Research in London, referring to the rescue plans announced Sunday for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
 The Nikkei 225 stock average in Tokyo rose 1 percent, while the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong gained 2.4 percent and the S.& P./ASX 200 index in Sydney rose 0.6 percent.
 The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index, a gauge of blue chips in the region using the euro currency, gained 2.5 percent. The FTSE 100 index in London rose 2.6 percent, while the DAX in Frankfurt rose 1.8 percent. In Paris, the CAC-40 gained 2.7 percent.
 Bond prices declined 14/32 to 99 2/32. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves opposite its price, jumped to 3.99 percent from 3.93 percent late Wednesday. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details daily activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FUTURES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (64%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (64%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); GOOGLE INC (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (64%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



443 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: Biggest Bottler of Coke Plans to Increase Prices

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Drinkers of Coca-Cola can expect to pay more starting this fall after Coca-Cola Enterprises, the company's biggest bottler, said Thursday that it would raise prices. 
 Problems at the bottler also hurt the Coca-Cola Company's bottom line, because it owns about 35 percent of that business. Coke said Thursday that its profit fell 23 percent in the second quarter, when it took a charge because of the bottler's woes.
 Coca-Cola Enterprises, which has about 80 percent of the United States market for Coke, said it would raise prices after Labor Day because of higher commodity costs and declining American soda sales. It said prices would go up by a percentage in the mid-single digit to high-single digit range. Bottlers set prices for retailers like grocery stores.
 At the Coca-Cola Company, results were again led by the international operations.
 The company managed to keep United States sales volume steady in the second quarter with help from Glaceau's Vitaminwater, which it bought for $4.1 billion last June. International sales rose 5 percent despite natural disasters in Asia and labor strikes in Europe.
 ''I know what is top of mind for all of you -- the current macroeconomic environment and its impact on our results,'' said Coke's chief executive, Muhtar Kent, who succeeded E. Neville Isdell on July 1. ''It is clear we will face some challenges around the globe.''
 The company, based in Atlanta, earned $1.42 billion, or 61 cents a share, down from $1.85 billion, or 80 cents a share, in the year-ago quarter. The results included a charge of 40 cents a share related to Coca-Cola Enterprises. Excluding one-time items, the figure came to $1.01 a share. Revenue rose 17 percent, to $9.05 billion, from $7.73 billion.
 Analysts polled by Thomson Financial had expected a profit of 96 cents a share on revenue of $8.93 billion, on average.
 Coca-Cola Company shares fell $2.00, or 3.8 percent, to close at $50.34. Shares in Coca-Cola Enterprises fell 1 cent, to $16.83.
 The bottler posted a second-quarter loss Thursday of $3.17 billion, or $6.52 a share, in contrast to a profit of $270 million, or 56 cents a share, in the year-ago quarter. The company said the loss included a $5.3 billion write-down in the value of a franchise license in North America because of an expected decline in operating income, higher commodity prices and its falling share price.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (92%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); RETAIL SALES (74%); RETAILERS (74%); STRIKES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); US LABOR DAY (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); NATURAL DISASTERS (52%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (95%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (64%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES NEDERLAND BV (58%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES INC (58%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (95%); CCE (PAR) (58%); CCE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (95%)

PERSON: MUHTAR KENT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



444 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Rebuffing President, Argentina's Senate Votes Against Farm Export Tax Increases

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; Vinod Sreeharsha contributed reporting from Buenos Aires.. 
Vinod Sreeharsha contributed reporting from Buenos Aires.

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO 

 BODY:
Argentina's Senate narrowly rejected the agricultural export tax increases that caused a nationwide farmer rebellion when the country's vice president sided with agriculture producers early Thursday and cast the deciding vote against the measure.
 The Senate voted 37 to 36 to reject the system of floating-rate taxes that the government of President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner imposed in March without first consulting with her nation's Congress. 
 The vote was a stunning turn of events in the four-month-old conflict that has roiled Argentina, one of the world's major agricultural exporters. And it was a stinging repudiation of Mrs. Kirchner's insular and confrontational style of governing that portrayed farm groups as enemies of the state bent on destabilizing her seven-month-old government. 
 Yet while the vote means that Congress rejected Mrs. Kirchner's attempt to make the higher taxes law, it did not revoke the new system, which will remain in place for now, analysts said. That leaves the beleaguered president with a tough political decision: continue to insist on the taxes and risk further political damage to her Peronist bloc's hold on Congress, or give up the $3 billion to $4 billion in additional revenues a year that the higher taxes are reaping for the treasury. 
 Whatever she decides, Mrs. Kirchner and her husband, former President Nestor Kirchner, who leads the Peronist bloc, emerge badly wounded from the protracted battle with agricultural producers, analysts said. 
 ''This is a huge blow to the Kirchners, a major defeat on an issue that they framed as a defining moment of their presidency,'' said Daniel Kerner, an analyst with Eurasia Group, a political risk analysis consultancy based in New York. ''It would be political suicide for them to keep the higher taxes in place now.''
 On Thursday, Mrs. Kirchner did not directly address the Senate vote at her only public appearance, in the northern city of Chaco. But on Tuesday, her husband said that ''we will respect the decision Congress makes, whatever it is.''
 Julio Cobos, Argentina's vice president and a former governor of Mendoza, broke the tie after nearly 18 hours of often emotional debate among the senators. His voice weary and sometimes cracking, Mr. Cobos sounded almost apologetic as he explained why he was voting against a measure that Mrs. Kirchner and her husband had fought so hard to defend. 
 ''I don't believe that a law works that does not offer a solution to this conflict,'' Mr. Cobos said. ''However history may judge me, I ask for forgiveness if I am making a mistake.''
 It was a moment of high drama in Argentina's capital, Buenos Aires, carried live on national television. While farm leaders called his actions patriotic, his repudiation of his president may have been ''the beginning of a political institutional crisis,'' said Artemio Lopez, an analyst in Buenos Aires.
 For the Kirchners, Mr. Cobos's vote added insult to injury and was likely to ratchet up pressure on them to moderate their bruising style of politics and seek more consensus heading into Congressional elections next October, said Graciela Romer, an analyst in Buenos Aires.
 ''This vote showed that she has lost power and legitimacy in her own political coalition,'' Ms. Romer said. ''Everything depends on what path the president chooses going forward. If she deepens the divisive style she has shown, she could have problems running the country.''
 The new tax system raised taxes on soybeans from a fixed rate of 35 percent to a rate that has floated with global prices to more than 44 percent. Amid rising costs for farm materials, it provoked a series of crippling strikes that shut down highways for grain trucks bound for export and caused scattered food shortages.
 The Kirchners justified the higher taxes as critical to plans to redistribute wealth and hold down Argentina's food prices. But they stoked tensions by portraying the farmers as a political threat, calling them ''greedy'' and ''coup plotters.''
 Last month a series of huge pro-farmer rallies throughout the country finally pushed Mrs. Kirchner, whose approval rating had plummeted to as low as 20 percent, to take the calculated risk of sending the measure to Congress for approval. The president's Peronist bloc controls both houses of Congress.
 But analysts said the Kirchners underestimated the support for agricultural producers both in the provinces and in the capital itself. 
 ''For us, agriculture is the economy,'' said Ruben Hugo Marin, a senator from La Pampa who is part of the Front for Victory party that generally supports the Kirchners, in explaining his no vote.
 The vote was not expected to be so close in the Senate, but a pro-farmer march on Tuesday in Buenos Aires of an estimated 235,000 people appeared to have an impact. A government rally heavy with trade unions and labor groups drew 100,000 to the city the same day. 
 Shortly after Emilio Rached, a senator from the province of Santiago del Estero, cast the critical vote that forced the tie, all eyes turned to Mr. Cobos, who took the microphone just after 4 a.m. ''The Argentine president is going to understand us, she is going to understand me,'' Mr. Cobos said, his hand nervously fidgeting with the microphone ''My vote is not in favor, my vote is against.''
 Later Thursday, Mr. Cobos explained his vote in a televised interview, saying that Mrs. Kirchner's unwillingness to make ''small modifications'' caused him to vote against the measure. ''I agree with the distribution of wealth,'' he added. But, he said, ''I also know that one has to see a reasonable profit. To redistribute wealth, one has to create it.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 22, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about the Argentina Senate's defeat of an agricultural export tax, a repudiation of President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, misidentified the city where she made her only public appearance that day. It was in Resistencia, not Chaco (Resistencia is the capital of Chaco, a province in northern Argentina.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Farmers in Buenos Aires on Thursday celebrated the rejection by the Argentine Senate of a presidential tax program.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEO LA VALLE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (91%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); TAX INCREASES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); GOVERNORS (72%)

PERSON: CRISTINA FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (79%); NESTOR KIRCHNER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ARGENTINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



445 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: For Bloomberg, Another $10 Billion or So Doesn't Count for Much

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS; Austin Bogues, in Washington, and C.J. Hughes and Rebecca White, in New York, contributed reporting.

 BODY:
If Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's net worth has nearly doubled to perhaps as much as $20 billion, that means:
 The mayor can finance one-quarter of New York City's budget all by himself or the entirety of what the United States spends each year on foreign aid or space exploration.
 His personal wealth surpasses the gross domestic product of Armenia. 
 He has more money than the amount Americans bet annually on legal thoroughbred horse racing.
 He has even more to give away to nonprofit organizations or to invest in another mayoral campaign (if term limits are rescinded).
 He may now be the richest New Yorker.
 His lifestyle is unlikely to be affected in the slightest.
 By agreeing on Thursday to buy Merrill Lynch's 20 percent stake in Bloomberg L.P., the financial data and news business that he founded, for $4.4 billion, Mr. Bloomberg, in effect, placed a public value of roughly $22.5 billion on his private company. He now owns 92 percent of the stock. Given other holdings, that would place his net worth in the ballpark of $16 billion to well over $20 billion.
 When Mr. Bloomberg first ran for mayor in 2001, his net worth was estimated at $5 billion. Last spring, Forbes magazine calculated that he was worth $11.5 billion, which made him the world's 65th wealthiest person. 
 A net worth of $20 billion would catapult him into the magazine's top 25. Even $18 billion would propel him past two other New Yorkers: David H. Koch ($17 billion), the oil-and-gas mogul who recently pledged $100 million to renovate the New York State Theater, and Carl C. Icahn ($14 billion), the Queens-born investor. All three are self-made billionaires.
 ''People never resented him, because he made it on his own,'' said former Mayor Edward I. Koch. ''Bloomberg's money has never been a factor, except in getting him elected.'' 
 Mr. Bloomberg spent $160 million of his own money on his two mayoral campaigns. In addition to contributing more than $175 million to arts and social service organizations since 2002, through the Carnegie Corporation, he has given hundreds of millions more to other causes. The Chronicle of Philanthropy estimated that he had contributed more than $200 million last year.
 Testifying in Washington on Thursday at a Congressional hearing on the achievement gap between white and nonwhite students, Mr. Bloomberg said: ''Our country is built on the principle that all those willing to work hard have a shot at success. But the achievement gap undermines that.''
 Outside the hearing, he was asked if young New Yorkers would regard him any differently because he appeared to be worth billions of dollars more than he was the day before. He noted that he accepts only $1 a year as mayor, and added: ''I have my senior's MetroCard for the subway every day. All I can tell you is that I went to public schools and I was taught that if you worked hard, then the great American dream is open to you. And, sadly, that's not true for too many kids in our schools.''
 Will the re-evaluation of his wealth make any difference to their parents?
 ''To say to a guy from Brooklyn or Queens that the mayor is really worth $15 billion when we thought he was worth $8 billion is like talking about the federal deficit -- it doesn't matter,'' said William T. Cunningham, the mayor's former communications director.
 That nonchalance was reflected in random interviews with New Yorkers, some of whom half-joked that they hoped the mayor would be more generous in his gift-giving, and offered their own suggestions about what they would do if their net worth doubled.
 Ann Quigley, a 24-year-old actress and teacher, said she would pay off her student loans, travel more and buy an espresso maker. Referring to Mr. Bloomberg, she said: ''It's really easy to look at these people from afar and judge how they should spend their own money. But at the same time, where do you draw the line? I make more money than a homeless person, so shouldn't I give most my money away?''
 Chris Ottomanelli, 20, a day camp counselor and student at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, said his view of the mayor had not changed. ''I knew when he came into office that he was wealthy and I expected him to continue to make money,'' he said. 
 With all of Mr. Bloomberg's wealth, including his opulent town houses in New York and London, his vacation home in Bermuda, and all his other assets, would being worth billions of dollars more make any difference in his everyday life?
 ''I don't see how it could,'' Mr. Cunningham said. 
 Lewis Begley, the lawyer and novelist whose fiction revolves around New York and money, agreed. ''I think it probably affects him marginally,'' Mr. Begley said. ''It must give him a nice warm feeling, confirming that he can do anything he wants. He can walk and chew gum and whistle all at the same time.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 23, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about the ways in which Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg might be affected by the possible doubling of his net worth following his agreement to buy Merrill Lynch's 20 percent stake in Bloomberg L.P. misspelled the given name of a novelist who writes about New York and money and who said the added wealth probably affects Mr. Bloomberg marginally. He is Louis Begley, not Lewis.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael R. Bloomberg and his companion, Diana Taylor, in June. His net worth has been revised upward -- way upward. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN LOVEKIN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CHARITIES (78%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); HORSE RACING (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); TERM LIMITS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); HORSES (71%); BUILDING RENOVATION (63%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (85%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); CARNEGIE WAVE ENERGY LTD (52%)

TICKER: CWE (ASX) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (85%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (52%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008



446 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2416 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
SENATE IN ARGENTINA REBUFFS
President on Farm Tax
The Senate in Argentina rejected increases in the agricultural export tax that have caused a farmer rebellion, with the vice president siding with farmers and casting the deciding vote. The rejection was a major defeat for President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, whose government imposed the tax in March without consulting the Congress. PAGE A6
THE UNION CRACK
Theirs is a union older than the one that holds together their former colonies and other parts of what now form the United States. But it also followed centuries of warring contention that, 300 years later, are not entirely forgotten. And so perhaps it should come as no surprise that relations between England and Scotland have hit a rocky stretch again. PAGE A8 
BOMBING CONVICTIONS OVERTURNED
A Spanish court overturned the convictions of four men and upheld the acquittal of a fifth in legal proceedings relating to the 2004 Madrid commuter train bombings, which killed 191 people. The rulings followed appeals of some of the 21 convictions by a lower court after a five-month trial that ended in October. Seven other people were acquitted at that time. PAGE A8
CHINA TO BAR SOME ENTERTAINERS
Foreign entertainers who displease China will not be allowed to perform there, according to new rules posted on the Web site of the Ministry of Culture. Transgressions include taking part in activities deemed to threaten Chinese sovereignty, promoting ethnic hatred or advocating ''obscenity or feudalism and superstition.'' The rules may have come about because of an outburst in March by Bjork, the popular Icelandic singer, who used a concert in Shanghai to advocate Tibetan independence. PAGE A8
IN INDIA, ASSERTING LEADERSHIP
Kumari Mayawati, a daughter of so-called untouchables who stunned India last year when she won majority control of the country's largest state, is asserting herself as a rainbow coalition leader, a woman whom Indians may trust to be their prime minister one day. Loyalists sometimes call her a goddess. Detractors accuse her of corruption, among other failings. PAGE A6
PROSECUTOR TO PURSUE REBELS
Days after seeking an arrest warrant for President Omar Hassan al-Bashir of Sudan, the prosecutor at the International Criminal Court said that his next case on the conflict in Darfur would focus on the rebels thought to be responsible for a deadly September attack on international peacekeepers. The move may soften criticism over his action against Mr. Bashir, which has come from African countries as well as China and Russia. PAGE A8
national
A BITTERSWEET CENTENNIAL
For a Fallen City in Michigan
In Flint, Mich., many are recognizing the centennial of the founding of General Motors, a company that both built the city and left much of it collapsed, with a week of festivities. At a picnic billed as a ''G.M. family reunion,'' many people paid tribute to the company for all the jobs it brought to Flint. Others blamed G.M. for the city's decline and questioned whether there was anything to celebrate. PAGE A12
OBAMA DONATIONS STAY ON PACE
Senator Barack Obama's campaign said it collected $52 million in June through an aggressive mix of small and large contributions that produced more than twice the amount raised by Senator John McCain. Although the $52 million came close to reaching the record that Mr. Obama set in February by raising $55 million, the figure is on pace -- or slightly below -- projections that campaign aides have set out for party fund-raisers. PAGE A17
GRIM FINDINGS ON CHICAGO JAIL
A 17-month investigation of Cook County Jail in Chicago, one of the nation's largest local jails, found that it had systematically violated the constitutional rights of inmates. People awaiting trial at the jail have endured vastly inadequate medical care, beatings at the hands of jail workers, and dilapidated, dangerous building conditions often left unrepaired for months, federal authorities said. PAGE A12
G.O.P. BLOCKS OIL LEASE MEASURE
House Republicans blocked a Democratic effort to pressure energy companies into drilling for oil on lands they already leased from the federal government, calling the legislation a sham. Democrats say oil companies are sitting on 68 million acres they could be exploring. But Republicans say many of those sites have proved to be dry holes or are the subject of lawsuits and disputes over federal permits. PAGE A17
LET THEM HAVE TOMATOES
Tomato lovers eat away, but pepper aficionados beware. The Food and Drug Administration revoked its warning against eating certain kinds of raw tomatoes, even though officials said they had yet to pinpoint the source of the nation's largest food-borne outbreak of illness in the last decade. The agency continued to recommend that the elderly, infants and those with weak immune systems not eat raw jalapeno or serrano peppers. PAGE A13
obituaries
PAUL SPENCER BYARD, 68
A land-use lawyer, he returned to school in his late 30s to be an architect and became an important figure in the renovation of some of New York's most prominent landmarks. PAGE C10
SPORTS
WINFIELD AND STEINBRENNER
Are No Longer at Odds
The relationship was great when George Steinbrenner first made Dave Winfield a Yankee, but various factors -- notably a lack of World Series titles -- contributed to what might charitably be called a chill. But that is long ago, ''bygones,'' as Winfield puts it, and his recent return to Yankee Stadium was accompanied by kind thoughts of his former boss. Sports of The Times, Harvey Araton. PAGE D1
REGULAR GUY RISES AGAIN
The wind roared and the rain poured on the opening round of the 137th British Open Championship, but neither could stop Rocco Mediate -- the regular guy from Greensburg, Pa., who nearly took Tiger Woods down in the United States Open -- from leading an early evening assault on par at Royal Birkdale. PAGE D1
DIVIDED BY FAVRE
Green Bay has been in Brett Favre's thrall since he arrived 16 years ago, a reject from the Atlanta Falcons who resurrected the great Packer tradition. But his recent retirement-unretirement friction with the team has strained the bonds of family and is now driving crazy many of those who love him the most. PAGE D1
metro
STARS OF METROPOLITAN OPERA
Head to Vienna for Tune-Up
Some of the Metropolitan Opera House's most acclaimed performers -- the 11 chandeliers in the lobby at Lincoln Center -- will be undergoing a refurbishing and refinishing in Vienna over the next 10 weeks, with plans calling for them to be back with all-new crystal in time for the Met's 125th-anniversary season, which begins on Sept. 22. PAGE B1
BLOOMBERG GETS RICHER
By agreeing to buy Merrill Lynch's 20 percent stake in Bloomberg L.P., the financial data and news business that he founded, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in effect placed a public value of roughly $22.5 billion on his private company. Since he now owns 92 percent of the stock, that and other holdings would place his net worth in the ballpark of $16 billion to $20 billion, and could put him in Forbes Magazine's list of top 25 wealthiest people in the world. PAGE B3
RANGEL TO ASK FOR ETHICS QUERY
Representative Charles B. Rangel said he would ask the House ethics committee to look into whether he had violated any rules by using a Congressional letterhead to raise money for a new educational center at City College that was named after him. Part of his aim in asking for the inquiry was to clear his name and ''whup'' The Washington Post, which first reported about the letters. PAGE B3
BUSINESS
MERRILL LYNCH REPORTS
$4.9 Billion Loss for Quarter
Merrill Lynch reported a loss of $4.9 billion in the second quarter, or $4.95 per share, results far worse than the $1.8 billion loss expected by financial analysts. To make up for losses, which have spread over four consecutive quarters, the bank sold its 20 percent stake in Bloomberg, the financial news service, for $4.425 billion; and signed a non-binding letter of intent to sell its control of its subsidiary Financial Data Services for more than $3.5 billion. PAGE C1
A LAND OF BOOM AND BULLS
And now for some completely different economic news, from Dubai, United Arab Emirates, where growth is running at roughly 11 percent a year and the government expects it to continue at that pace, and where housing prices actually rose 42 percent in the first three months of the year. So what if economists warn of an unmanaged boom, and a severe reversal to come? PAGE C1
JPMORGAN INCOME FALLS
JPMorgan Chase said its second-quarter income dropped 53 percent, as credit card and home loan losses spread to borrowers with the strongest credit histories. Although the bank is widely praised for its strong balance sheet and management, the bank had loosened lending standards and was caught off guard by the severe downturn in home prices. ''We were wrong,'' its chief executive, James Dimon, said. ''We obviously wish we hadn't done it.'' PAGE C3
HOUSING START FIGURES DISTORTED
Builders in New York City who are rushing to obtain permits before a new set of building codes takes effect skewed housing figures for June, making it look as if the ailing residential construction business had suddenly experienced a cure. Not so. Outside the Northeast, housing starts dipped 4 percent. ''This report is much weaker than it looks,'' one economist said. PAGE C7
INVESTORS SUE GOLDMAN
Investors duped by Samuel Israel III, the former manager of the Bayou Group hedge fund, are suing to recoup some of their money from Goldman Sachs, which for six years acted as the so-called prime broker for Bayou. Goldman should have known something was wrong, the creditors contend. They lost $450 million, and seek $20 million from Goldman. PAGE C6
TECHNOLOGY GIANTS DISAPPOINT
Google and Microsoft disappointed investors as they announced their quarterly results after markets closed. Microsoft surpassed $60 billion for its complete fiscal yearfor the first time in its history, but it missed Wall Street's profit expectations on rising expenses and an uncertain advertising climate. Google also posted strong quarterly growth, reporting $3.87 billion in revenues, but it missed Wall Street's expectations for earnings per share. PAGE C1
weekend
NUANCE AND FEELING BECOME
A Bridge Across Language
A diplomat can speak through an interpreter, a book can be translated and a movie granted subtitles. But what of music? The Dominican musician Juan Luis Guerra will wrap audiences at Madison Square Garden in his lush merengues -- both world- and love-conscious -- despite, for many, a language barrier. But since when has enjoyment ever hinged upon understanding? PAGE E1
CABLE RACKS UP NOMINATIONS
Cable television made a strong showing in Emmy nominations, showing that large audiences are not always the only measure of success. Network television thrived in the comedy area, picking up numerous nominations for shows like ''30 Rock,'' ''The Office,'' ''Two and Half Men'' and ''House.'' But cable dominated in most other areas, with newcomer AMC breaking into the nominations for ''Mad Men.'' PAGE E3
PARIS HUSTLER TAKES STOCK
For Pierre, sex for pay has been a way of life. Now, well into his 60s, he has been H.I.V. positive for the last 24 years and is staring down the barrel of old age. ''Before I Forget,'' by the French director and writer Jacques Nolot, is a stark memoir of a lush, pleasure-driven life on its downward slope. Pierre struggles, among other things, with age, illness and reluctance to take a new drug cocktail that will extend his life but ravage what is left of his looks. PAGE E14
BIRD WATCHING? IN NEW YORK?
Perhaps there is an absence of verdant foliage. There are no pine needles underfoot and the closest thing to a mountain is lit up at night and stands in the center of the city. But that's no barrier to bird watching. The summer months are a lull between migrations in the spring and fall, a perfect time to learn that some of the best spots for bird watching are accessible by subway. PAGE E30
ESCAPES
IN BOSTON HARBOR ISLANDS,
So Close, and Yet ...
On the 34 islands and peninsulas that make up Boston Harbor Islands National Park, garbage dumps, orphanages, poorhouses and prisons have given way to campgrounds, hiking trails and museums. And the best part of going may be the ability to step onto rugged terrain within, or just outside, city limits. PAGE F4
FLORIDA WHEN IT SIZZLES
Who would spend time at their Florida vacation home in the summer? The hot, sticky, hurricane-prone Florida summer? Well, people who want to rent out their vacation homes in the winter, for starters. PAGE F1
Editorial
A SEAT AT THE TABLE
We welcome the news that President Bush has decided to send a top diplomat to talks on Iran's nuclear program. We hope this means that he has figured out that there is little chance of solving problems without first taking a seat at the table. We also hope it means that Vice President Dick Cheney and his crew have given up their dangerous fantasy of bombing away Iran's nuclear ambitions -- or at least that it has been overruled by the president. PAGE A18
NO FRIEND OF THE WORKERS
It should surprise no one that an arm of the Bush administration charged with protecting Americans' rights or safety is not doing its job. Even so, a government report and a Congressional hearing this week painted a disturbing picture of a Labor Department that simply is not standing up for workers. PAGE A18
WHERE DRUG DEATHS HAVE GROWN
The rate at which young Americans between the ages of 15 and 24 have been dying from drug overdoses has jumped sharply. Instead of rushing to save these young people, state governments are actually shortchanging them. PAGE A18
op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN
If the current economic slump follows the typical modern pattern, the economy will stay depressed well into 2010, if not beyond. That's plenty of time for the public to start blaming the new incumbent. Barack Obama, take notice. PAGE A19
DAVID BROOKS
Historically, periods of great governmental change have often been periods of conservative rule. It is as if voters understand that they need big changes, but they want those changes planned and enacted by leaders who will restrain the pace of change and prevent radical excess. PAGE A19
USING BOMBS TO STAVE OFF WAR
In an article, Benny Morris, a professor at Ben-Gurion University, warns that Israel may bomb Iran's nuclear sites within the next six months and that Israel, the United States and even Iran should hope that an attack would be successful. The alternative, he says, would be nuclear war. PAGE A19

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LITIGATION (88%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (88%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); BOMBINGS (74%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (74%); PEACEKEEPING (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); ACQUITTAL (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); WEB SITES (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (65%); FAMILY (65%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (64%); CORRUPTION (61%); ARREST WARRANTS (61%); ARRESTS (61%); TRAINS (53%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: CRISTINA FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (75%); FLINT, MI, USA (65%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); EAST CHINA (75%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) ARGENTINA (94%); CHINA (94%); SUDAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (92%); TIBET (79%); AFRICA (79%); ENGLAND (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2010



447 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1506 words

HEADLINE: When the Banker Knows Your Mother

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
Just a few years ago, it was easy to write off the local community bank as a relic, a quaint reminder of an age when you actually needed to visit a branch to manage your money. 
 Who needed a local banker when a mortgage broker could easily connect you with financing from some faraway lender? Internet banks offered savings accounts with interest rates far superior to community banks' pathetic payouts, and brokerage firms created fee-free checking accounts. 
 Like many of you, I suspect, I haven't set foot in my bank since the 1990s. But in the last couple of weeks, as I've read about desperate people unable to find someone at their giant mortgage companies able to help them with their troubled mortgages and seen the photos of people lining up in front of IndyMac, I've started to wonder whether I have the whole thing backward. 
 Surely, there must be some worth in working with someone nearby who tries to make prudent loans within the community, someone who can bend the rules to get you out of trouble or keep you from making a mess of your finances in the first place. Shouldn't local bankers be shouting this from the rooftops right about now? 
 So this week, I set out to find that kind of banker. I was looking for someone with a close relationship with customers who also knows that blithely offering meager savings rates won't cut it in an age when it's easy to find great deals elsewhere.
 I found him in Easton, Md., on the Eastern Shore of Chesapeake Bay, and I asked him this: What, if anything, can a community bank do for someone that other financial institutions can't?
 The lobby of Easton Bank & Trust, a 15-year-old community bank, is a full-service operation, with an old-fashioned popcorn machine, magazines for children and work from local artists on display. The vault, with safety deposit boxes inside, is visible to customers, and the tellers do not sit behind glass partitions.
 Not 20 paces from the bank's lobby is the open office door of Easton's president, R. Michael S. Menzies, a banker out of central casting with a firm handshake, perfectly parted hair, a gray pinstripe suit and black wingtip shoes. 
 Mr. Menzies puts his home telephone number on his business card, which is as good a symbol as any of how far he goes to promote the things that make his bank different. ''We have nothing at all as a competitive advantage other than our service and our people and their ability to identify needs and create solutions,'' he said. 
 Here's how that happens on the mortgage side of the business. Easton keeps about $10 million of residential mortgages on its own books instead of selling them off to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. These loans are often made to borrowers who wouldn't be able to get a loan elsewhere at that particular moment. 
 ''These are loans with challenged credit, but where we know why the credit is challenged,'' Mr. Menzies said. ''Health, divorce, a lost job. Stuff happens. But we know the people, we know they're honest and we know the families.'' The bank writes these loans and then tries to refinance them a few years later when the borrowers have improved their financial situation.
 In recent years, Easton has also been performing a sort of tough love restructuring service for the increasing number of people ages 25 to 40 who have huge amounts of credit card debt. The bank will offer a home equity loan if possible, but it also extends five-year personal loans with strict conditions attached, including no new card debt. 
 ''If you miss a beat, I'll call your mother,'' Mr. Menzies said. It's a joke. Kind of. He does often know the mothers of the debtors, and the fact that everyone sees one another around the town of about 15,000 probably does add some implicit pressure to make good on the loan.
 That said, a few customers haven't met their end of the bargain over the years. ''The borrower says I just had to put the swimming pool in, I knew you wouldn't lend it to me, so I went ahead and used the credit cards,'' Mr Menzies said. This is rare enough, however, that the bank continues to make these loans. 
 Far more problematic for the bank are the people who never consider asking for help in the first place. Community banks have looked on in horror as ING Direct has siphoned tens of billions of dollars out of old-fashioned checking and savings accounts around the United States, and other Web-based banks have taken billions more. While Easton does well with the large local population of retirees, it needed a better way to convince people who are 25 to 55 that it was relevant to their needs. 
 So about two weeks ago, it introduced a rewards checking account that pays a whopping 4.49 annual percentage yield on balances up to $25,000 (and 1.5 percent on amounts above that). To get that rate, customers need to make at least 12 debit card transactions a month, sign up for electronic monthly statements and make one direct deposit or make one automatic online payment each month. So far, about 100 people have signed up, and about 30 percent of them are new to the bank. 
 Easton isn't the only small bank that has introduced an account like this. Hundreds of banks now have similar versions, thanks to BancVue, a company that helps banks set them up. Let's say you're not among the many people who are doing just fine with their current bank, and you want to switch to one that offers the special rewards checking account. Well, good luck finding a list of banks that offer it. There is no such list on BancVue's site. A site it helps run, checkingfinder.com, contains a partial list, which includes only banks that pay commissions for new customers the banks find through the site. 
 This gets to a bigger problem -- the fact that it's not as easy as it should be to find a good community bank in the first place. The Independent Community Bankers of America, of which Mr. Menzies is chairman-elect, has no list of members on its Web site for consumers to search. You'll have better luck looking for credit unions, which offer similar services to community banks, at findacreditunion.com. 
 Asking around for referrals remains a decent option. A real estate broker, financial planner, neighbor or colleague can make recommendations. Then, show up at the building in person and ask to speak with the president, or the person who runs the branch. Does the staff look at you funny, or usher you right into that person's office?
 Not every community bank is sound, since reckless bankers run institutions of every size. Figuring out whether a bank is in trouble isn't easy, though. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation keeps a list of problem banks that it is monitoring, but it doesn't disclose the names of the institutions on it. There were 90 of them as of the first quarter of this year. Bankrate.com publishes ''Safe & Sound'' ratings that can help. 
 You can avoid the problem that some IndyMac account holders had this week by following F.D.I.C. guidelines and not having more than $100,000 per depositor at an insured bank (or $250,000 in a retirement account). A good banker should be able to explain to you the ways to keep more than that with a single bank, using multiple accounts of various sorts and other strategies, while still maintaining full F.D.I.C. protection. 
 Last weekend, Mr. Menzies steeled himself for questions from account holders on Monday about the stability of his own bank and what small banks were doing to protect themselves in the current environment. His answer? ''The first loss we take here is my personal loss,'' he said. ''It's my personal equity in the bank, my personal reputation in a community I've lived in most of my life. I'm not just dealing with other people's money, so it's a whole different level of responsibility.''
 That response is far different from the sorts of things big banks were saying this week about the health of their institutions. And if your banker doesn't take the current crisis personally, perhaps it's time to find another one. 
 AN ADDENDUM A few weeks ago, I wrote a column about the wisdom of taking loans against your 401(k) account. The article mentioned a company called Reserve Solutions that allows its customers to draw money from their loan via a debit card at an A.T.M. or any merchant that accepts Visa. Reserve Solutions declined to comment for the column. Meanwhile, the column quoted a spokesman for Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, as saying that he planned to create a law that would ban such use of cards. 
 On Wednesday, Senator Schumer and Senator Herb Kohl, Democrat of Wisconsin, did indeed introduce legislation that would outlaw the use of credit or debit cards in association with 401(k)s or other similar retirement plans. Later in the week, I interviewed Senator Schumer and the founder and chairman of Reserve Solutions' parent company for more detail. You can find edited transcripts of those interviews at nytimes.com/yourmoney.
 What has your banker done for you lately? E-mail: rlieber@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mary Milton taking some popcorn at Easton Bank & Trust.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE RUARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 At Easton Bank & Trust, top, personal service is the watchword. Thad Pecorak, above, of Easton, brings in his dog, Choco, for treats.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE RUARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMUNITY BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); INTERNET BANKING (73%); CHILDREN (66%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (60%); EASTON BANK & TRUST CO (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (60%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (60%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008



448 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Police Say Fatal Shooting Was Justified

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
A police officer who shot and killed an armed man in an Upper East Side apartment building on Thursday night was justified in doing so, the police said on Friday. 
 The Police Department's chief spokesman, Paul J. Browne, said the officer, who was investigating a domestic dispute, acted within guidelines when he shot the man, Spencer Parris, 39, in the chest at 321 East 83rd Street. In line with policy, the officer, a 10-year veteran, took a blood-alcohol test after the shooting, and the results were negative, Mr. Browne said.
 The officer, whom the Police Department would not identify, had been on patrol with a partner when they were flagged down at 77th Street and Second Avenue about 11:15 p.m. by a taxi driver carrying a female passenger. The woman, 28, whom the police did not identify, told them she had been assaulted by her companion, Mr. Parris, and needed to return to their apartment to retrieve belongings before going to stay with a friend.
 The officers went with her, knocked on the door to their apartment, 1D, and identified themselves, Mr. Browne said. Mr. Parris said he was not coming out, but suddenly flung open the door, with a 13-inch-long knife in his hand. Mr. Parris told the officers several times that he was going to kill them, according to Mr. Browne.
 The officer who later fired his weapon began backing down the hallway, and told Mr. Parris several times to drop the knife, which had a nine-inch blade, and to not come closer. The other officer, a 26-year veteran, pushed the woman behind him, and they edged down the stairs to the vestibule. 
 A neighbor at the end of the hallway was watching through a peephole, Mr. Browne said. After Mr. Parris advanced to about three feet from the officer, who was backed against the neighbor's door, the officer fired once with his Glock, Mr. Browne said. 
 Mr. Parris was pronounced dead at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital. The officer was treated for trauma at Lenox Hill Hospital, the police said.
 Mr. Parris had punched his companion in the face and had pulled her hair after they argued over plans to see a midnight movie, Mr. Browne said. 
 Mr. Browne said she had filed a report in February, soon after they moved into the apartment, complaining that he had assaulted her. The police have reports of two domestic incidents there in March.
 Mr. Parris, who was unemployed, had a previous assault arrest in New Jersey, Mr. Browne said. His companion told the police that they met over the Internet, and that she later found out that he had bipolar disorder and had once tried to commit suicide.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Police in front of an East Side apartment building where two officers on patrol had gone late Thursday to investigate a domestic dispute. One officer fatally shot a man who had threatened to kill them with a 13-inch-long knife. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (93%); POLICE FORCES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (72%); SUICIDE (60%); MENTAL ILLNESS (60%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008



449 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Mandela and His Legacy Are Praised as He Turns 90

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

 BODY:
There was a time, not all that long ago, when he was the invisible man whose name was a battle cry, his appearance known to most people only from an out-of-date photograph, a hidden hero on a prison island off the coast of Africa.
 But as he celebrated his 90th birthday on Friday, Nelson Mandela was anything but invisible, a figure of reverence whose nine decades have already been observed at a huge rock concert in London's Hyde Park, a gala dinner for his children's charity in the august, chandeliered Long Room at Lord's Cricket Ground (also in London) and a host of other tributes. 
 The actual day of his birth was supposed to be celebrated with a quiet affair in his ancestral village of Qunu in the southeast of South Africa -- with a mere 500 of his closest friends in attendance, and a wry self-deprecation.
 ''We are honored that you wish to celebrate the birthday of a retired old man, who no longer has power or influence,'' he said in a public radio message, according to news reports.
 Friday was also the 10th anniversary of his marriage to Graca Machel, the widow of Samora Machel, a revolutionary leader and former president of Mozambique. Mr. Mandela divorced Winnie Mandela in 1996.
 Part of Mr. Mandela has always seemed to be public property, owned initially by foes of apartheid rule in South Africa and now a kind of universal talisman of integrity and dignity -- a name to bring a flush of moral ardor to the most jaded celebrity visages. 
 Where his name once resonated around the segregated black townships of apartheid South Africa, chanted by the rebellious youths who challenged white rule, it now seems to head a list of encounters with notables sought by rock stars and politicians.
 In his presence, even the most battle-scarred and cynical of politicians seem to feel they are wafted to the high ground wrought by Mr. Mandela's 27 years in prison. His stature and charisma have given him entree from the White House in Washington to 10 Downing Street in London.
 Remarkably, it has been 18 years since Mr. Mandela was released from jail, 14 years since he triumphed in his country's first democratic elections, 8 since he left office and 4 since he formally withdrew from public life. But, contrary to his disclaimer of power and influence in his birthday message, he is still seen as a guarantor of his country's remarkable transition from a segregated society to one that is majority-ruled.
 F. W. de Klerk, the last white president of South Africa, who negotiated the transition with Mr. Mandela and shared a Nobel Peace Prize with him in 1993, hailed Mr. Mandela's role in molding ''our widely diverse communities into an emerging multicultural nation.''
 Mr. Mandela has lent his name to the struggle against H.I.V. and AIDS. The rock concert in Hyde Park was devoted to the effort to combat the epidemic that has been the scourge of Africa. 
 He also entered the bitter dispute over the electoral, social and economic crises of Zimbabwe, saying that there had been a ''tragic failure of leadership'' in the country.
 As Mr. Mandela ages, there are fears among some South Africans that, as The Mail and Guardian, a South African newspaper, put it, his legacy is under threat from his successor, Thabo Mbeki. 
 Mr. Mbeki's critics have accused him of being far more divisive than Mr. Mandela and of overseeing a centralization of the power of the ruling party, African National Congress.
 ''Mandela is 90,'' The Mail and Guardian said in its online edition on Friday. ''But the sweet celebration of a life of leadership, service and generosity is mixed with the sour taste of a legacy being polluted in front of the old man's tired eyes.''
 It is thus with a certain wistfulness that some South Africans contemplate a post-Mandela era.
 ''Mandela can't come to our rescue any more,'' the newspaper said. ''But his example can.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nelson Mandela, the anti-apartheid figure and former president of South Africa, celebrated his 90th birthday on Friday with grandchildren at his home in the village of Qunu, South Africa.(PHOTOGRAPH BY POOL PHOTO BY THEMBA HADEBE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (87%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); POP & ROCK (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); CHARITIES (70%); PUBLIC RADIO (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (70%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (66%); ELECTIONS (65%); NOBEL PRIZES (60%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) SOUTH AFRICA (95%); AFRICA (90%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008



450 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BELIEFS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Uncertainties About the Role of Doubt in Religion

BYLINE: By PETER STEINFELS

 BODY:
''Belief in God isn't quite the same thing in 1500 and today,'' writes Charles Taylor in ''A Secular Age'' (Harvard University Press, 2007), his formidable exploration of how the conditions of religious belief -- and of unbelief, too -- have changed for modern Westerners. 
 Religious faith was once the air everyone, even the doubter, breathed. Today, religious faith, in its many forms, stands as but one possibility alongside a range of nonreligious outlooks that the honest believer cannot simply dismiss as deluded or depraved. 
 Far more than in the past, Mr. Taylor writes, believers must live their faith ''in a condition of doubt and uncertainty.''
 Religious thinkers, of course, have long argued that uncertainty and faith are not the polar opposites often supposed; that indifference, and not doubt, for example, is the greater adversary of faith; that absolute certitude about God often reflects a dangerous arrogance. 
 But the idea that contemporary faith, at least in the economically developed West, is shadowed by uncertainty on a new and different scale begs for some empirical investigation. Is such a doubt-haunted belief merely the intermediate stage in that slow retreat of the ''Sea of Faith'' that Matthew Arnold lamented in ''Dover Beach,'' and that has left much of Western Europe with little more than a veneer of cultural or nostalgic religiosity? Call this the familiar transition hypothesis. 
 Or is there a newly emergent faith that is deep and constant, marked by familiar forms of prayer and practice, but nonetheless alert to, perhaps even enlivened by, the whisper saying, ''I am convinced I'm right but I could be wrong''? That would be a faith lived, to use a favorite phrase of Professor Taylor, ''in a different register.'' Call this the new steady-state hypothesis. 
 At first glance, the latest findings from the United States Religious Landscape Study, conducted by the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life, promise a way of examining those alternatives. This survey of more than 35,000 Americans asked people not only whether they believed in ''God or a universal spirit'' (92 percent did), but also whether the believers were ''absolutely certain, fairly certain, not too certain, or not at all certain.'' While 71 percent replied ''absolutely certain,'' a sizable portion (17 percent) fell into the ''fairly certain'' category. 
 What if one explored this latter group's answers to other survey questions? How important, for example, was religion in their lives? How often did they pray or attend worship services? How convinced were they that there would be life after death? 
 From the start, one could suppose that the fairly certain would prove less devout or observant on such measures than the absolutely certain. At least some of the fairly certain, it can be assumed, are people in transit, shifting toward disbelief and already distancing themselves from traditional religious life. 
 Nonetheless, if it turned out that the answers of the fairly certain came even close to those of the absolutely certain, it would confirm the idea of a stable strata of deeply committed, actively practicing religious believers who have also integrated a significant degree of doubt and uncertainty into their faith. 
 The Pew study itself did not make such comparisons between the absolutely certain and the fairly certain believers. But its huge sample of interviews meant that these subgroups were large enough to make statistically reliable comparisons. 
 Gregory A. Smith, research fellow at the Pew Forum, was kind enough to fire up the computers and churn out the numbers. Unfortunately for anyone looking for a new model of strong faith with doubt, the fairly certain believers were not at all close to the absolutely certain ones on frequency of prayer and worship, the importance of religion in their lives, belief in life after death, and several other measures. In most cases the fairly certain believers were closer in attitude and observance to those saying they were not certain. 
 For example, 71 percent of absolutely certain believers considered religion ''very important'' in their lives; only 22 percent of the fairly certain did. 
 Strike 1 against the new steady-state hypothesis. 
 But the Pew survey also asked those who believed in God whether their view of God was more like ''a person with whom people can have a relationship'' or ''an impersonal force.'' 
 Obviously, religious practices like worship and prayer usually assume a God who has relationships with people. So what if one limited the comparisons between absolutely certain and fairly certain believers to ones who, in both cases, also described their view of God as ''personal''?
 In this case, the gap between the two groups closes -- but only modestly. Strike 2 against the steady-state hypothesis. 
 Of course, there may be still other ways of slicing and dicing the data, or of looking at differences among particular religious groups. Strike 3 may not be inevitable. Nor can the transition hypothesis be declared the hands-down winner. 
 Since 1988, the General Social Survey, a highly regarded opinion survey conducted by the National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago, has asked a parallel but somewhat different set of questions that explore confidence or uncertainty about the existence of God. 
 Mr. Smith points out that from 1988 to 2006 the percentages of people giving each answer have remained relatively unchanged. That does not really bolster the steady-state hypothesis because it reveals nothing about the patterns of worship and prayer and valuing religion that correspond to these degrees of certainty or doubt. 
 But those findings do challenge the transition hypothesis, which implies an increase over time in the number of doubters. 
 So what exactly does it mean that many contemporary believers will be living their faith ''in a condition of doubt and uncertainty''? 
 As academics love to conclude, more research is needed. That, at least, is fairly certain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%)

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (69%); WESTERN EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008



451 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Hope, and Hints, That Financial Stocks Have Finally Touched Bottom

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
HAVE financial stocks finally fallen so far that they are great investments?
 There was hope that was true this week. After selling off for months, the financial stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index had their best day ever on Wednesday. But there have been previous rebounds in those stocks that have vanished as more bad news came out. 
 This week, the Bush administration felt it had to offer a $300 billion line of credit to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two government-sponsored enterprises that buy or guarantee most mortgages made in the United States. Their inability to function would devastate the credit markets and the economy, and worries about them initially contributed to sharp falls.
 There have been times before when the financial system seemed to be in jeopardy, but it somehow recovered, and financial stocks soared as the fears faded.
 The accompanying charts look at the performance of financial stocks over 52-week periods since the autumn of 1990, and do so in two ways. 
 The first chart shows the absolute performance of the Standard & Poor's index of financial stocks in the S.& P. 500, not including dividends. The second chart shows by how many percentage points the financial index outperformed, or underperformed, the full S.& P. 500.
 By either measure, the 52 weeks through Tuesday, July 15, were the worst since Standard & Poor's began calculating the financial index in 1989.
 At the low point this week, the index was down 53 percent over 52 weeks, a rapid decline not seen before. The previous record came in the fall of 1990, when the financials were down 44 percent over a year as many banks failed and fears mounted that even stalwarts like Citicorp might not survive.
 That was a great time to buy financial stocks, both relatively and absolutely. Over the ensuing 52 weeks, the financials soared 58 percent. That gain was not enough to wipe out the previous year's losses, but it was a phenomenal performance.
 The past year has not been a good time for most stocks, of course. But even on a relative basis, the financials have had their worst 52-week period ever. They had fallen by 31 percentage points more than the overall S.& P. 500 on Tuesday, a figure that was marginally worse than the two previous times that the relative underperformance reached 31 percent.
 The first of those came in 1990, and was followed by the surge mentioned above.
 The second one came in March 2000, when financial stocks had done poorly while the technology bubble was driving up the S.& P. 500. Over the next year, the S.& P. 500 fell 12 percent, while the financials leaped 37 percent.
 The fact that relative underperformance of 31 percentage points over 52 weeks has twice signaled a great opportunity in financial stocks does not prove that it will happen again, of course. But it does show that pessimism about the financial system had reached extraordinary levels. That could provide attractive prices if the financial system is destined to muddle through the current credit crisis.
 Read Floyd Norris's blog at nytimes.com/norris 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: 52-week change in S.& P. 500 financial stocks
 Relative performance of financial stocks to the S.& P. 500-stock index. Charts detail line graphs for Financial stocks performed better than the broader index and Financial stocks performed worse than the broader index. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%)

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (92%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008



452 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: In Hamptons, Slump Means Less Glitz Per Gala

BYLINE: By ERIC KONIGSBERG

DATELINE: BRIDGEHAMPTON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Trustees of the Children's Museum of the East End rejected a dinner dance at a rented farm in favor of a cocktail party on the museum grounds here, replaced a five-piece rock 'n' roll cover band with a teenage jazz combo and slashed ticket prices to $150 from $450, but still only drew about 150 guests, half the number that turned out for the benefit last year. 
 At the Watermill Center, an artists' enclave a few towns away, planners of the annual summer benefit scheduled for Saturday night (dress code: wild chic) have ratcheted back fund-raising expectations -- and expenses, trying to spend a few thousand dollars less on the elaborate tents and other trappings that are used at such events.
 And there are still hundreds of tickets left for the annual Art for Life gala, also scheduled for Saturday night, at the East Hampton estate of Russell Simmons, the rap impresario. 
 All along the East End of Long Island, a string of beach towns that represent a sort of New York version of the French Riviera, fund-raisers and their topiarists are suffering through a limp summer, with the rising price of oil and falling value of the Dow combining to cast a pall over the party-hopping set.
 Some fund-raisers say that it may not help either that the number of charity galas seems to keep increasing each year. ''In the past we've sold out pretty quickly, but this year we're scrambling,'' said Tangie Murray, director of the Rush Philanthropic Arts Foundation, which was founded by Mr. Simmons and his brothers to expose children to the arts and is putting on the Art for Life event. While 850 or 900 people have typically paid the $1,500 minimum to attend in recent years, Ms. Murray said that this year, ''we're hoping we can reach 700; it's a different economic climate.''
 One consequence, of course, is that the charities helped by the benefits are worrying about their futures (the Children's Museum, for instance, is in danger of closing down). But a ripple effect is that the Hamptons fund-raising circuit, long a richly appointed, celebrity-studded and well-intended archipelago of self-congratulation, has become a lot less festive.
 ''It feels less giddy, sure,'' said R. Couri Hay, a society publicist and a columnist for Hamptons magazine. ''In the past, I've seen a lot of the old guard dropping out. It's gotten more expensive. Tickets used to be $250 for everything. It's gotten less exclusive -- less Blue Book, if you will.''
 Noting that a new charity he is working to promote, Help for Orphans International, had sold only seven tickets to its July 25 gala in Bridgehampton as of last week, Mr. Hay added, ''Fancy new money would be fine with me.''
 In the backyard of the Simmons house in East Hampton the other day, Ms. Murray broke things down a bit.
 ''We've only sold about five $30,000 tables,'' she said. ''Two or three years ago, we would sell 10. Some people who bought two tables in the past are buying one table this year. Some people have called to ask me about discount rates, which was not something we saw in the past. And we're seeing individual couples who bought two tickets are not coming at all.''
 But economizing hardly appeared to be a guiding principle as nearly two dozen workers assembled steel girders for a 10,000-square-foot free-span tent; expensive and pole-free, these tents are to outdoor parties what Gunite is to swimming pools and Sub-Zero is to refrigeration. 
 Ms. Murray explained, however, that there is pressure in the philanthropic world, despite the economic downturn, to always outdo past performances. 
 ''There was some talk about getting a normal tent -- our budget is about 10 to 15 percent lower than it was a couple of years ago -- but we don't want to give people less,'' she said, adding that Mr. Simmons rented a free-span tent two years ago and didn't want to do without it this year. ''What does it say about you if you're charging less or giving them less? Each year we're expected to grow this event. People want to see some razzle-dazzle.''
 Both Mr. Simmons's party, which will honor a postmodern agglomeration of famous people including Ed Burns and Christy Turlington, Aretha Franklin, Gov. David A. Paterson, Diddy, and the film director Brett Ratner, and the Watermill Center gala (the highlights of which are costumed performers who emerge from the woods, unsuspected, throughout the evening and an auction of blue-chip artworks) are making a point of declaring their lowered fund-raising expectations ahead of time.
 But locals said that fund-raisers for the Parrish Art Museum in Southampton, whose benefit took place on July 12, were disappointed with the results. 
 Terrie Sultan, the museum's director, declined to share specific numbers but said, ''We probably raised about three quarters of what we have in the past.'' (A museum official said $1 million has been the goal for recent galas.) Ms. Sultan said this was the first year in a long time that the benefit went without a major corporate sponsor. ''We tried, but nobody signed on,'' she said. ''A big sponsor can give as much as $50,000. If you have to try to make that up with individual ticket sales, think about it.''
 Jorn Weisbrodt, the Watermill Center's director, said that last year, his benefit's main corporate sponsor, Lexus, raised more than $200,000. ''Last year, they approached us,'' he noted. ''This year, we went to them and they said they could not consider it.''
 Watermill's most optimistic forecast is now $1.5 million, compared with $2 million raised last year. ''We've been very aggressive this year trying to reduce costs for the event,'' Mr. Weisbrodt said. ''We shopped around to find cheaper people for lights and sound. And we're offering a $500 cocktails-only ticket that we didn't really promote in the past. Last year, we sold 20; this year we sold 50.'' 
 Eliza Rand, a spokeswoman for the Children's Museum, said planners realized a week before the July 12 gala that they would fall short of their $280,000 goal, so ''we decided to downscale in order to maximize what we were bringing in.'' Out went the cover band, in came the local teenagers and museum instructors, performing free or for $75 stipends. A buffet dinner was replaced with a raw bar.
 ''The downturn in the economy has played a big part,'' Ms. Rand said. ''Also, over the years, we've seen more and more charities coming out here for events. There are two, three, four parties a weekend here running all summer long. It's become very competitive.''
 Some stalwarts of the benefit scene said they felt it had become so overgrown -- and so full of newcomers -- that they almost welcomed the smaller scale. 
 ''There is a general sense of burnout about these big events,'' said Andrew Saffir, who runs Cinema Society, a New York film publicity company with a strong presence in the Hamptons. ''I think people are more selective about how they spend their Friday and Saturday nights out there.''
 It might be too early to call this the East End's summer of austerity, but Jeff Pennington, a high-end florist, said he had noticed that many of his steady private-home accounts had fallen off. ''They're asking for estimates, which they never used to,'' he said. ''For weekends when they don't have guests, people are just doing their floral arrangements in-house.''
 Or perhaps it is the summer of sobering up. Dan Rattiner, who publishes Dan's Papers in the Hamptons, cited a number of recent occasions on which the local police have closed down art gallery parties or confiscated their Champagne for serving alcohol without a license. ''My opinion is that nobody can buy a $100,000 painting without alcohol,'' he said.
 Debbie Bancroft, a socialite in Southampton, said that although she planned to go to as many benefits this year as in the past, many of her friends have been dialing back. ''It's hard enough to get the Wall Street husbands to come to these things,'' she said. ''And that's when Wall Street is doing well.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wendy Lewis worked on table centerpieces Friday for an event to be hosted by Russell Simmons.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY GORDON M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Perez Aneudis, left, and Ioan Burzo prepared to move crates of dishes on Friday for Russell Simmons's Art for Life benefit.
 Geoff Sawyer was among workers setting up tables on Friday for the Simmons charity event.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY GORDON M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); CHARITIES (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); POP & ROCK (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PHILANTHROPY (75%); JAZZ & BLUES (72%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (61%); WRITERS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008



453 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Eyes Off The Price

BYLINE: By DAN ARIELY. 
Dan Ariely, a professor of behavioral economics at Duke University, is the author of ''Predictably Irrational: The Hidden Forces That Shape Our Decisions.''

DATELINE: Durham, N.C. 

 BODY:
 AS I stand at the gas station filling my tank, the meter tallies how much it's going to cost me. At this station, a gallon is $4.26, and as the meter passes the $20 mark, then the $30, I realize that I am paying too much attention to the price of gasoline. I bet you are too.
 Looking back at my family's expenses over the past few years, I see big increases in our health care costs and in how much we pay for food. The rise in what we spend on gas is not nearly as extreme as our increases in categories like electricity and telephone. So why does the amount we spend on gasoline feel so enormous? I think it is because of the way we buy gas. 
 For the several minutes that I stand at the pump, all I do is stare at the growing total on the meter -- there is nothing else to do. And I have time to remember how much it cost a year ago, two years ago and even six years ago. 
 Yet I have no such memory about the prices of items in any other category. I have no idea how much milk was six years ago, how much bread was three years ago or how much yogurt was a week ago. But I suspect that if I stood next to the yogurt case in the supermarket for five minutes every week with nothing to do but stare at the price, I would also know how much it has gone up -- and I might become outraged when yogurt passed the $2 mark.
 Another odd thing about the way we buy gasoline is that we usually buy multiple units. I just bought 13 gallons for a little more than $55. The sticker shock isn't as intense when I see the price per gallon as it is when I'm faced with the total cost. Fifty-five dollars! I remember when I filled my tank for $20 and $25 and $30! Maybe if we bought 13 loaves of bread at a time or 15 gallons of milk we might become just as sensitive to how much we spend on those items.
 While we concentrate our anger on gas prices, we are ignoring increases in electricity, food and health insurance -- expenses that might actually have a greater effect on our budgets. 
 I've read news reports about people who drive 20 miles from California to Mexico just to buy cheaper gas, and about people who trade in the gas-guzzling S.U.V.'s that they bought only a year ago for more fuel-efficient cars. Of course, buying cheaper gas and driving cars that use less of it is desirable. But I wonder if the person driving to Mexico considers the cost of the entire trip, including his time and wear and tear on the car. And I wonder if the person who takes a $20,000 loss on his S.U.V. ends up paying more for the trade than he can possibly save at the pump.
 Perhaps it would be better if gas station attendants filled the tank for us, as they used to, so we did not stand at the pump watching the rising price of our gasoline. Maybe it would help if gas pumps came with bigger hoses so that filling up would go faster and we'd spend less time watching the meter. Or maybe we should just learn to examine all our purchases and expenses more holistically so that we see where rising costs make the biggest difference. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TAMARA SHOPSIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAS STATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); MILK (77%); BUDGETS (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (59%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008



454 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2352 words

HEADLINE: On Every Front, Anxious Questions and Uncomfortable Answers

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
You have heard that Fannie and Freddie, their gentle names notwithstanding, may cripple the financial system without a large infusion of taxpayer money. You have gleaned that jobs are disappearing, housing prices are plummeting, and paychecks are effectively shrinking as food and energy prices soar. You have noted the disturbing talk of crisis hovering over Wall Street.
 Something has clearly gone wrong with the economy. But how bad are things, really? And how bad might they get before better days return? Even to many economists who recently thought the gloom was overblown, the situation looks grim. The economy is in the midst of a very rough patch. The worst is probably still ahead.
 Job losses will probably accelerate through this year and into 2009, and the job market will probably stay weak even longer. Home prices will probably keep falling, shrinking household wealth and eroding spending power. 
 ''The open question is whether we're in for a bad couple of years, or a bad decade,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, a former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, now a professor at Harvard.
 Is this a recession?
 Officially, no. The economy is not in recession until a panel at a private institution called the National Bureau of Economic Research says so. Unofficially, many economists think a recession started six or seven months ago, even as the economy has continued to expand -- albeit at a tepid pace. 
 Many assume that if the economy expands at all, then it isn't a recession, but that's not true. The bureau defines a recession as ''a significant decline in economic activity spread across the economy, lasting more than a few months.'' If enough people lose their jobs, factories stop making things, stores stop selling things, and less money lands in people's pockets, it is probably a recession. 
 Whatever it is called, it is a painful time for tens of millions of people. Indeed, this may turn out to be the most wrenching downturn since the two recessions in the early 1980s; almost surely worse than the recession that ended the technology bubble at the beginning of this decade; perhaps worse than the downturn of the early 1990s that followed the last dip in real estate prices. 
 But, despite what some doomsayers now proclaim, this is not the Great Depression, when unemployment spiked to 25 percent and millions of previously working people woke up in shantytowns. Not by any measure, even as your neighbors make cryptic remarks above dusting off lessons passed down from grandparents about how to turn a can of beans into a family meal. 
 How bad is housing?
 Bad in many markets, awful in some, and still O.K. in a few. 
 The downturn has its roots in the real estate frenzy that turned lonely Nevada ranches into suburban ranch homes and swampland in Florida into condominiums. Speculators drove home prices beyond any historical connection to incomes. Gravity did the rest. After roughly doubling in value from 2000 to 2005, home prices have fallen about 17 percent -- and more like 25 percent in inflation-adjusted terms -- according to the widely watched Case-Shiller index. 
 Even so, most economists think house prices must fall an additional 10 to 15 percent to get back to reality. One useful measure is the relationship between the costs of buying and renting a home. From 1985 to 2002, the average American home sold for about 14 times the annual rent for a similar home, according to Moody'sEconomy.com. By early 2006, home prices ballooned to 25 times rental prices. Since then, the ratio has dipped back to about 20 -- still far above the historical norm. 
 With mortgages now hard to obtain and speculation no longer attractive, arithmetic has replaced momentum as the guiding force for housing prices. The fundamental equation points down: Even as construction grinds down, there are still many more houses on the market than there are people to buy them, and more on the way as more homeowners slip into foreclosure. 
 By the reckoning of Economy.com, enough houses are on the market to satisfy demand for the next two-and-a-half years without building a single new one. 
 The time it takes to sell a newly completed house has expanded from an average of four months in 2005 to about nine months, according to analysis by Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research. 
 And many sales are falling through -- more than 30 percent in some parts of California and Florida -- as buyers fail to secure financing, exacerbating the glut of homes, Mr. Baker said.
 No wonder that in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Phoenix and Las Vegas, house prices have in recent months declined at annual rates of more than 33 percent. 
 When will banks revive?
 So far, they have written off more than $300 billion in loans. Many experts now predict the toll will rise to $1 trillion or more -- a staggering sum that could cripple many institutions for years. 
 Back when home prices were multiplying, banks poured oceans of borrowed money into real estate loans. Unlike the dot-com companies at the heart of the last speculative investment bubble, the new gold rush was centered on something that seemed unimpeachably solid -- the American home. 
 But the whole thing worked only as long as housing prices rose. Falling prices landed like a bomb. Homeowners fell behind on their loans and could not qualify for new ones: There was no value left in their house to borrow against. As millions of people defaulted, the banks confronted enormous losses in a bloody period of reckoning. 
 In March, the Federal Reserve helped engineer a deal for JPMorgan Chase to buy troubled investment bank Bear Stearns. Many assumed the worst was over. But, this month, the open distress of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac -- two huge, government sponsored institutions that together own or guarantee nearly half of the nation's $12 trillion in outstanding mortgages -- sent a signal that more ugly surprises may lie in wait. 
 To calm markets, the government last weekend hurriedly put together a rescue package for Fannie and Freddie that, if used, could cost as much as $300 billion. The urgent need for a rescue -- together with another round of billion-dollar write-offs on Wall Street -- has unnerved economists and investors.
 ''I was a relative optimist, but I've certainly become more pessimistic,'' said Alan S. Blinder, an economist at Princeton, and a former vice chairman of the board of governors at the Federal Reserve. ''The financial system looks substantially worse now than it did a month ago. If the Freddie and Fannie bailout were to fail, it could get a hell of a lot worse. If we get more bank failures, we have the possibility of seeing more of these pictures of people standing in line to pull their money out. That could really scare consumers.''
 In one respect, Mr. Blinder added, this is like the Great Depression. ''We haven't seen this kind of travail in the financial markets since the 1930s,'' he said.
 More than two years ago, Nouriel Roubini, an economist at the Stern School of Business at New York University, said that the housing bubble would give way to a financial crisis and a recession. He was widely dismissed as an attention-seeking Chicken Little. Now, Mr. Roubini says the worst is yet to come, because the account-squaring has so far been confined mostly to bad mortgages, leaving other areas remaining -- credit cards, auto loans, corporate and municipal debt.
 Mr. Roubini says the cost of the financial system's losses could reach $2 trillion. Even if it's closer to $1 trillion, he adds, ''we're not even a third of the way there.''
 Where will the banks raise the huge sums needed to replenish the capital they have apparently lost? And what will happen if they cannot? 
 The answers to these questions are unknown, an unsettling void that holds much of the economy at a standstill.
 ''We're in a dangerous spot,'' said Andrew Tilton, an economist at Goldman Sachs. ''The big threat is more capital losses.''
 Banks are a crucial piece of the economy's arterial system, steering capital where it is needed to fuel spending and power growth. Now, they are holding tight to their dollars, starving businesses of loans they might use to expand, and depriving families of money they might use to buy houses and fill them with furniture and appliances. 
 From last June to this June, commercial bank lending declined more than 9 percent, according to an analysis of Federal Reserve data by Goldman Sachs.
 ''You have another wave of anxiety, another tightening of credit,'' said Robert Barbera, chief economist at the research and trading firm ITG. ''The idea that we'll have a second half of the year recovery has gone by the boards.''
 Is my job safe?
 Economic slowdowns always mean job losses. Unemployment already has risen, and almost certainly will increase more.
 The first signs of distress emerged in housing. Construction companies, real estate agencies, mortgage brokers and banks began laying people off. Next, jobs started being cut at factories making products linked to housing, from carpets and furniture to lighting and flooring.
 But as the real estate bust spilled over into the broader economy, depleting household wealth, the impacts rippled out to retailers, beauty parlors, law offices and trucking companies, inflicting cutbacks throughout the economy, save for health care, farming and energy. Over the last six months, the economy has shed 485,000 private sector jobs, according to the Labor Department. Many people have seen hours reduced.
 The unemployment rate still remains low by historical standards, at 5.5 percent. And so far, the job losses -- about 65,000 a month this year -- do not approach the magnitude of those seen in past downturns, particularly the twin recessions at the beginning of the 1980s, when the economy shed upward of 140,000 jobs a month and the unemployment rate exceeded 10 percent.
 But Goldman Sachs assumes unemployment will reach 6.5 percent by the end of 2009, which translates into several hundred thousand more Americans out of work.
 These losses are landing on top of what was, for most Americans, a remarkably weak period of expansion. From 1992 to 2000 -- as the technology boom catalyzed spending and hiring -- the economy added more than 22 million private sector jobs. Over the last eight years, only 5 million new jobs have been added.
 The loss of work is hitting Americans along with an assortment of troubles -- gasoline prices in excess of $4 a gallon, over all inflation of about 5 percent, and declining wages. 
 ''In every dimension, people are worse off than they were,'' said Mr. Roubini, the New York University economist.
 Are consumers done?
 That is a major worry.
 The fate of the economy now rests on the shoulders of the American consumer, whose spending amounts to 70 percent of all economic activity. 
 When people go to the mall and buy televisions and eat out, their money circulates through the economy. When they tighten their belts, austerity ripples out and chokes growth.
 Through the years of the housing boom, many Americans came to treat their homes like automated teller machines that never required a deposit. They harvested cash through sales, second mortgages and home equity lines of credit -- an artery of finance that reached $840 billion a year from 2004 to 2006, according to work by the economists James Kennedy and Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman. That allowed Americans to live far in excess of what they brought home from work. 
 But by the first three months of this year, that flow had constricted to an annual rate of about $200 billion.
 Average household debt has swelled to 120 percent of annual income, up from 60 percent in 1984, according to the Federal Reserve.
 And now the banks are turning off the credit taps.
 ''Credit is going to remain tight for a time potentially measured in years,'' said Mr. Tilton, the Goldman Sachs economist.
 This is the landscape that has so many economists convinced that consumer spending must dip, putting the squeeze on the economy for several years. 
 ''The question is, will it get as bad as the 1970s?'' asked Mr. Rogoff, recalling an era of spiking gas prices and double-digit inflation.
 Long term, Americans may have no choice but to spend less, save more and reduce debts -- in short, to live within their means. 
 ''We're getting a lot of the adjustment and it hurts,'' said Kristin Forbes, a former member of the Council of Economic Advisers under President George W. Bush, and now a scholar at M.I.T.'s Sloan School of Management. ''But it's an adjustment we're going to have to make.''
 Who's to blame?
 There is plenty to go around. 
 In the estimation of many economists, it starts with the Federal Reserve. The central bank lowered interest rates following the calamitous end of the technology bubble in 2000, lowered them more after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and then kept them low, even as speculators began to trade homes like dot-com stocks.
 Meanwhile, the Fed sat back and watched as Wall Street's financial wizards engineered diabolically complicated investments linked to mortgages, generating huge amounts of speculative capital that turned real estate into a conflagration. 
 ''At the end of this movie, it's clear that the Fed will have to care about excesses,'' Mr. Barbera said.
 Prices multiplied as many homeowners took on more property than they could afford, lured by low introductory interest rates that eventually reset higher, sending many people into foreclosure.
 Mortgage brokers netted commissions as they lent almost indiscriminately, offering exotically lenient terms -- no money down, no income or job required. Wall Street banks earned billions selling risky mortgage-linked securities around the world, aided by ratings agencies that branded them solid. 
 Through it all, a lot of ordinary Americans borrowed a lot more money then they could afford to pay back, running up enormous credit card bills and borrowing against the value of their homes. Now comes the day of reckoning.

GRAPHIC: CHART: How Bad Could Things Get?: Since World War II, there have been 18 banking crises in industrial countries. The worst five were caused by changing lending standards or real estate bubbles (often both) and cost at least 6 to 20 percent of G.D.P., the U.S. equivalent of $850 billion to $2.8 trillion. These are the worst five: Spain, 1977 COST: 16%+ OF G.D.P.: A poor response to the oil shock of 1973 and weak bank supervision meant half of banks had solvency problems
the government took over 20 small banks.
Norway, 1987 8%: Deregulation led to problem real estate loans and banks had too little capital to absorb losses. A drop in oil prices started the crisis.
Finland, 1991 11%: Big increases in household debt and overly optimistic assessments of asset quality added to problems caused by the loss of exports to Soviet Union.
Sweden, 1991 6%: Deregulation meant banks were able to make poorly documented loans without supervision. A real estate bubble collapsed.
Japan, 1992 Est. 20%+: A sharp plunge in the real estate market caused bad loans to pile up, starting a stretch of stagnation known as Japan's lost decade.
Can past banking crises tell us anything about what's next?: CUMULATIVE CHANGE IN REAL HOME PRICES
CUMULATIVE CHANGE IN REAL STOCK PRICES
How does the current downturn compare with past U.S. recessions?: CUMULATIVE CHANGE IN THE NUMBER OF JOBS Each Chart detail line graphs for the recession figures compared with previous recessions and across the world.(Sources: Carmen M. Reinhart, University of Maryland, and Kenneth S. Rogoff, Harvard (historical patterns)
Bureau of Labor Statistics (employment)
 National Bureau of Economic Research (recessions)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RECESSION (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FOOD PRICES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); LAYOFFS (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); GRANDPARENTS (68%); WORLD WAR II (59%); EROSION (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008



455 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: Trading in Soccer Talent

BYLINE: By ANDREW DOWNIE

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil 

 BODY:
Some co-workers are sitting around their office here on a recent Monday afternoon, dissecting the weekend's soccer matches and picking their top players. 
 One of the men likes a talented fullback. Another wants a player who has been scoring regularly for a top second division team. And the boss is keen to sign a teenage defender whose contract is up soon.
 It could be a fantasy football draft in any office in America -- only these trades are real. This is the office of Traffic, a Brazilian company leading a new, and controversial, wave of investment in Brazilian soccer. 
 Armed with 20 million reals of their own money (about $12 million) and another 20 million reals they hope to get from investors, Traffic is buying up contracts of young soccer players all over Brazil. They then lend the players to teams, who pay the players a salary and also allow them to showcase their talents. If they are recruited by a big European team, Traffic and its partners reap the largest share of the transfer fee. (The player, as usual, gets any signing bonus, and an often hefty salary.) 
 ''Instead of investing in the stock market or real estate,'' Julio Mariz, Traffic's president, said, ''these people are investing in buying the economic rights to football players.''
 Similar efforts to invest in individual athletes have been discussed in baseball in the United States and in soccer in the United Kingdom recently, but none of those efforts has taken off as they have in Brazil. 
 The deals are questionable; soccer's international governing body banned third-party involvement in transfers. But without outside investment many Brazilian clubs would fail financially.
 Several funds like Traffic have sprung up over the last year, and some major Brazilian companies -- including supermarket chains -- are creating football departments to invest in young players they hope will one day send European clubs reaching for their checkbooks. 
 ''We've been investing $10 million a year, but that is growing quickly because there are big profits to be made,'' said Thiago Ferro, a partner in the supermarket chain Grupo Sonda's department of football investment. ''We're providing returns of 150 percent a year.''
 In soccer (or ''football,'' to the rest of the world), clubs once owned the economic rights to a player under contract to their team. If another team wanted to sign the player, it had to pay his current club a transfer fee, in addition to coming to terms with the player.
 But in recent years, free agency has taken hold across the soccer world. And while players' contracts are still held by teams, as international rules stipulate, investors are getting involved.
 The new model is attractive to investors because one big sale can guarantee those spectacular returns. Traffic predicts a profit of 30 percent a year, Mr. Mariz said. Grupo Sonda expects even higher returns because, unlike Traffic, it is going after a few big trades rather than a large number of midlevel players. Grupo Sonda's projected returns are higher because the strategy is more risky. 
 Traffic pays dividends every six months, raised from player trades. When a player is traded, investors split the transfer fee with clubs, according to their ownership percentages.
 Brazilian clubs embrace the new investor model because the clubs get to raise cash without having to trade their players as quickly or as often. And when they do, inevitably, trade the players, the huge sums, as much as $50 million, guarantee the clubs' survival.
 ''If we want a decent team we need financial help,'' said Carlos Augusto Montenegro, vice president for soccer at Botafogo, a Rio de Janeiro club that has at least six players on loan from funds or individual investors. 
 ''We know they are using us as a shop window, but it is good for the player, good for the agent and good for Botafogo,'' he said. ''If there was another alternative we'd look at it, but this is what we have today and it works.'' 
 Last year, Bayern Munich spent a reported $19 million for Breno (Breno Vinicius Borges, formally, but few in Brazil would know him as such), an 18-year old defender who had played just 22 games for Sao Paulo. Italy's A. C. Milan paid a similar fee for Internacional's 17-year old striker Alexandre Pato.
 It is not only the giants in the big leagues of England, Germany, Italy and Spain who want Brazilians. Last year, 1,085 Brazilian players were transferred to places as diverse as Vietnam, Qatar and the Faroe Islands, according to the Brazilian Football Confederation.
 It was those kinds of numbers that spurred Traffic into action, Mr. Mariz said. The Sao Paulo-based firm began life in the 1980s, selling advertising space at soccer grounds. It moved into sports marketing and tournament administration and now owns the transmission rights to many of South America's biggest soccer tournaments.
 It recently shifted its focus to invest more heavily in the playing side. In addition to buying two teams, last year Traffic set up a fund called Cedro Participacoes, using $12 million of the firm's own money. In the months since, 18 individuals have each bought one or more shares of $120,000, taking the fund total so far to more than $20 million. 
 The fund is intended to operate for three years, the same time span as an average contract, and Traffic will always hold more than a 50 percent stake, Mr. Mariz said.
 So far the fund has bought all or part of 36 players, and 12 of them have gone to Palmeiras, one of Brazil's biggest clubs and Traffic's main partner in the venture. 
 Traffic executives meet with Palmeiras's directors at least once a month to discuss the club's roster. Traffic gives Palmeiras lists of available players. Palmeiras can also ask for Traffic's help in securing a particular star. 
 But there are also potential downsides, especially for fans. Investors could be tempted to sell a player as soon as his value increases, robbing the team of a key figure at a vital moment. If funds control players on opposing teams, there is the appearance of conflict of interest. And many supporters fear that people with no emotional attachment to a club might exert too much control. 
 Gilberto Cipullo, Palmeiras's vice president for football, said Traffic cannot sell players during certain key periods of the season and said that if a player's value soars then he would be sold anyway.
 Still, the involvement of third parties is controversial. A scandal in Europe over who owned two Argentine players transferred from the Brazilian club Corinthians to England in 2006 prompted football's governing body, FIFA, to ban third-party ownership in January.
 Traffic gets around that rule by signing all players to their own small club, Desportivo Brasil, and lending them to partner teams such as Palmeiras, Mr. Mariz said. Grupo Sonda signs over all rights, except for those to future financial gains, to the participating club, Mr. Ferro said.
 A FIFA spokesman said it had not investigated the Brazilian system because no ''formal case has been brought to our attention.''
 ''It is clear that they are not supposed to do that, and it goes against the regulations,'' the FIFA spokesman said, citing the January rule, which states, ''No club shall enter into a contract which enables any other party to that contract or third party to acquire the ability to influence, in employment or transfer-related matters, its independence, its policies or the performance of its teams.''
 Fund managers in Brazil said they are working within the law and stressed they have no plans to halt their dealings. With clubs desperate for cash, and investors desperate for profits, the trend seems set to continue. 
 ''There are some irresponsible individuals who just want to make a short-term profit,'' said the president of the Brazilian Association of Football Agents, Leo Rabello. ''But if it is done properly then it will change football. Investment will come into Brazil.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tarcisio Mariz, an observer from a company that buys contracts of young soccer players in Brazil, looking for talent at a training center in the city of Barueri. Below, Alexandre Pato, a player who drew large fees to play for Italy's A. C. Milan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABOVE, LALO DE ALMEIDA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
BELOW, RICARDO MORAES/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Bayern Munich reportedly spent $19 million for Breno, center, a Brazilian soccer player. The sums paid for Breno and players like him spurred a desire to invest in young talent.(PHOTOGRAPH BY UWE LEIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. C4) CHART: Cashing in on Talent: Investors in Brazil are reaping dividends from the country's young soccer talent. Buying stakes in futures stars, they receive a cut when big European clubs sign the players.
BRAZILIAN PLAYERS SIGNED BY FOREIGN TEAMS.(Source: Brazilian Football Confederation website/Grupo Sonda) Chart details bar graph for foreign teams.
INVESTMENTS IN BRAZILIAN PLAYERS BY GRUPO SONDA: Breno Rodrigues Borges
Mauricio Perucchi
 Rafael Sobis. Chart details statistics for each player.(Source: Brazilian Football Confederation website/Grupo Sonda)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); SPORTS (78%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); ATHLETES (73%); BASEBALL (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%) BAVARIA, GERMANY (79%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); ITALY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008



456 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: W.T.O. Rules Against China For Its Tariffs on Auto Parts

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
China violates global trade rules by requiring automakers operating there to buy components from local suppliers or face penalties, the World Trade Organization ruled on Friday. 
 The decision, issued in Geneva on a complaint brought by the European Union, the United States and Canada, is the first time China has lost a case since it joined the global trade arbiter in 2001. 
 China compels Ford Motor, Volkswagen, Renault and other automakers operating there to buy a quota of their components from local suppliers or pay more than double the standard import duty on their parts. That violates trade rules, the complaint said. 
 ''The panel report leaves no doubt that China's discriminatory treatment of U.S. auto parts has no place in the W.T.O. system,'' the United States trade representative, Susan C. Schwab, said in a statement.
 The case was filed in March 2006 as the richest nations began increasing their criticisms of China's trade policies. American lawmakers have accused China of using a combination of subsidies, tax incentives and an undervalued currency to give an unfair advantage to domestic companies, helping to drive up China's record trade surplus.
 The case also reflects China's increasing importance as an export market. Overseas carmakers have invested more than $20 billion in Asia's biggest auto market, seeking to offset slumping sales in the United States, Europe and Japan.
 In April 2005, China began a system of levying tariffs on auto parts based on the amount of imports in the complete vehicle. Automakers must register with Chinese authorities and provide detailed information on the quantity and value of foreign parts used in their vehicles.
 If a threshold of foreign parts is reached, those parts are subject to the 25 percent tariff that applies to complete vehicles instead of the 10 percent tariff applied to parts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); DISCRIMINATION (69%); TAX LAW (67%); TAX INCENTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (90%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (90%); F (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008



457 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2476 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: JULY 19, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 USING A REPORTER'S TOOLS
 To Push for Change in Japan
 He is a lawmaker now, no longer a reporter, but Akira Nagatsuma is still raking muck, with a goal of breaking Japan's one-party state by rooting out hidden information. A recent scoop was to expose the widespread practice among elite bureaucrats of using taxpayers' money to take taxis home at night, and accepting drinks, gifts and even cash as kickbacks from drivers looking for repeat fares. PAGE A6
 'A RETIRED OLD MAN' TURNS 90
 Nelson Mandela celebrated his 90th birthday with a quiet affair in his ancestral village of Qunu in South Africa -- with a mere 500 of his closest friends and a bit of wry self-deprecation. ''We are honored that you wish to celebrate the birthday of a retired old man, who no longer has power or influence,'' he said in a public radio message, according to news reports. PAGE A5 
 IRAN OPEN TO U.S. PRESENCE
 Iran is open to discussing the establishment of the first American diplomatic presence in Tehran since relations were severed nearly three decades ago, its foreign minister said. European and American officials have said that the Bush administration is considering re-establishing an American diplomatic presence in Iran, but there has been no official confirmation. PAGE A6
 WARNING ON ELECTRICAL HAZARDS
 A Pentagon safety expert told senior Defense officials in May that their failure to heed warnings to fix widespread electrical hazards on American bases in Iraq could leave the Pentagon liable for multiple electrocutions of American soldiers, according to internal e-mail correspondence. PAGE A7
 HUMAN RIGHTS NOMINATION
 The United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, is planning to name a judge from South Africa, Navanethem Pillay, to the post of High Commissioner for Human Rights, a United Nations official briefed on the decision said. The United States has raised concerns about Judge Pillay's nomination, a person briefed by the secretary general's office said, partly because of Judge Pillay's strong support for reproductive rights. PAGE A8
 TAX INCREASES REVOKED
 President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner of Argentina revoked tax increases on grain exports, a measure that had incited four months of farm revolts, food shortages and nationwide protests. The move followed by one day the Argentine Senate's rejection of the tax plan. Revoking it was necessary to stop the hemorrhaging of Mrs. Kirchner's seven-month-old presidency, political consultants and risk analysts said. PAGE A6
 Explosives Stolen A6
 Baby Penguin Deaths A6
 national
 FORMER LABOR UNION CHIEFS
 And A.F.L.-C.I.O. Talk Politics
 The presidents of several labor unions that quit the A.F.L.-C.I.O. three years ago have been quietly meeting with union presidents in the federation and mapping strategies to help elect Senator Barack Obama and to forge joint policies on trade and other issues to coordinate their political operations and message for the fall election. Many labor leaders say this move could lead to several of the unions rejoining the federation. PAGE A9
 CRANE COLLAPSE KILLS 4 IN HOUSTON
 Four workers were killed and six others injured when a giant crane collapsed in a twisted mountain of metal at an oil refinery in southeast Houston. A wave of accidents involving construction cranes in places like New York, Miami and Las Vegas has raised concerns about the safety of the industry. PAGE A13
 PARTY ORDERED ON OHIO BALLOT
 A court has ruled that Ohio must include the Libertarian Party's nominees on its ballot in November, complicating Senator John McCain's effort to win conservative votes in a hotly contested state rich with electoral votes. But Mr. McCain's campaign kept its focus on its main rival, Senator Barack Obama. On the other side of the political spectrum, Ralph Nader intends to run on the Ohio ballot as an independent candidate. PAGE A13
 FROM RIVALS TO FRIENDS
 It was not so long ago that the idea that Senator John McCain would even entertain tapping Mitt Romney, his bitterest primary rival, as his running mate seemed preposterous. The McCain-Romney feud was the juiciest of the Republican primary season. But that was then. These days Mr. Romney, a telegenic former Massachusetts governor, is serving as a wingman extraordinaire for Mr. McCain. ''He does a better job for me than he did for himself,'' Mr. McCain said. PAGE A9
 DAISIES DON'T DO DENVER
 Last April, in honor of Denver's 150th anniversary, Mayor John Hickenlooper unveiled a newly cultivated daisy variety called the Denver Daisy. But much to the consternation of citizen gardeners, the Denver Daisy apparently does not much like the city for which it is named. PAGE A13
 OBITUARIES
 MICHAEL B. GREGG, 78
 An epidemiologist, he was a former editor of the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, a federal medical bulletin that published early warnings of the impending AIDS crisis in 1981. Under Dr. Gregg's tenure, the report advanced the ''editorial note,'' a brief commentary that is intended to provide doctors and public health officials with greater context about instances of smallpox, salmonella, polio and other potential epidemics at hand. PAGE A15
 SPORTS
 FOR METS, A SECOND BASEMAN
 Who Does More Than Play
 A little more than two weeks into his service with the Mets, Argenis Reyes has proved to be more than just a decent contact hitter who can play second base. He has also been a good luck charm, and possibly the linchpin of a team turnaround: in the 10 games that Reyes has played, mostly as a late-inning pinch-hitter or substitute, the Mets have not lost. PAGE D5 
 A SHARK CIRCLES BACK
 He plays more tennis than golf these days, being newly wed and on his honeymoon with Chris Evert, who could provide a tennis tip or two. But somehow Greg Norman, previously known as the Great White Shark, who has not won an official professional event in 10 years, is near the top of the leader board at the British Open. Could a curtain call go much better than that? PAGE D1 
 HIGH EXPECTATIONS
 When David Beckham joined the Los Angeles Galaxy, he was proclaimed ''a global sports icon who will transcend the sport of soccer in America and carry it on his shoulders.'' Well, it's been a year now, and things haven't quite worked out that way. Not that there hasn't been progress; there has. But since the initial flurry, things are pretty quiet beyond the soccer bubble. PAGE D6 
 A MARTIAL ART EMERGES
 Sambo, a Russian acronym that stands for self-defense without weapons, is a martial art that combines striking, submissions, throws and weapons disarmament. It is relatively unknown outside Russia and the former Soviet republics. But with a growing number of sambo experts among the elite ranks of mixed martial arts, that is slowly changing. PAGE D5 
 metro 
 FOUR WHO TELL THE STORIES
 Of Lives Lost and Found
 The four players who tell the stories of their lives in ''The Castle,'' an oral history drama at the New World Stages theater, are all ''determined, smart, resourceful, funny people,'' Jim Dwyer writes in About New York. They also all came home from state prison with nowhere to go and wound up living in a group home on Riverside Drive and 140th Street called -- the Castle. PAGE B1 
 PAROLE IN A BOMBING
 In 1976, Zvonko Busic organized the hijacking of T.W.A. Flight 355 and the planting of a bomb in a locker at Grand Central Terminal to promote Croatia's fight for independence from Communist Yugoslavia. The bomb exploded, killing a New York City police officer and blinding another in one eye. After 30 years in prison, Mr. Busic has won parole. The dead officer's widow and the police commissioner are not happy. PAGE B1 
 BUSINESS
 IF THE BANKER KNOWS YOUR MOTHER, 
 The Service is Different
 It is the stuff of legend, the local community bank, the kind of place where a real person (picture Jimmy Stewart, say) tries to make prudent loans within the community and bends the rules if necessary to get you out of trouble or keep you from making a mess of your finances in the first place. Does it still exist? If so, shouldn't it be pitching its wares right about now? PAGE C1 
 A DIFFERENT KIND OF SPORTS POOL
 It has the appearance of a fantasy football draft in an American office. But this is no fantasy: the co-workers in Sao Paulo, Brazil, dissecting the weekend's soccer matches and picking their top players are actually buying the rights to those players and, in the process, leading a new and controversial wave of investment in Brazilian soccer. PAGE C1 
 GOING SHOPPING WITHOUT 'GOING'
 With driving to the mall these days, potentially calling for a significant investment in gasoline, more Americans are deciding to leave the car parked and do their buying at a keyboard. And a number of retailers, seeing the double-digit sales growth at their shopping Web sites, are doing what they can to encourage the process. PAGE C1 
 STAKES HIGH FOR TRADE TALKS
 Global trade talks are to begin on Monday in Geneva and are expected to be both long and crowded. (Canada alone, what with one group and another, will have about 150 people there.) At issue is whether the rickety structures that govern global trade can accommodate the rise of new and assertive economic powers like Brazil, China and India. And failure would damage the credibility of the World Trade Organization itself. PAGE C2 
 And What if Oil Prices Fall? C2 
 Freddie Mac Moves to Raise Capital C4 
 ARTS
 FOR NEIL YOUNG, POLITICS
 Is Never Far From Mind
 Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young's concert tour in the summer of 2006 drew a mixed response from crowds, largely because of the album it was based around, Mr. Young's ''Living With War.'' While the band took to the antiwar theme eagerly, audiences did not always, as recorded in Mr. Young's new documentary of the tour, ''CSNY: Deja Vu,'' which opens July 25 in New York, Los Angeles and 17 other cities. PAGE B1 
 ONE-STOP GENEALOGICAL SHOPPING
 The New York Public Library's extensive genealogical collection has just been enhanced by the gift of 75,000 volumes, 30,000 manuscripts and 22,000 reels of microfilm from the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society. Which, if you are looking for information about family members with some sort of connection to New York, makes the library an even more valuable resource. PAGE B1 
 This Weekend
 THE MAGAZINE
 In response to court rulings, class is replacing race as the primary basis in attempts to desegregate schools -- like the effort under way in Jefferson County, Ky. And Emily Bazelon writes that it's a mix that just might work. PAGE 38
 ARTS & LEISURE
 Did you know that you shouldn't use duct tape on ducts? Such is the wisdom found on the DIY Network, run by the same people behind the Food Network and HGTV. It even trumpets the same philosophy: just do it. William Grimes spent a whole day with the network, and writes that while a deteriorating client-contractor relationship on ''Move It Outside'' is great television, the same can't be said for the show on knitting. PAGE 1
 BOOK REVIEW
 In Natsuo Kirino's ''Real World,'' a boy named Worm impulsively kills his mother. But it isn't until his image adorns the front pages of newspapers and is plastered on television broadcasts that the fleeing Worm tries to retroactively assign a motive for his crime: he wants to be seen as a disaffected nihilist. Kathryn Harrison writes that Ms. Kirino's world ''offers no possibility of god or redemption'' for the characters -- most of whom are children -- who live in it. PAGE 1
 SUNDAY STYLES
 Is anyone really a narcissist anymore? Or is everyone a narcissist? The term has deep roots in psychoanalytic literature, and gets bandied about so often and assigned to so many people -- Madonna, Eliot Spitzer, Saddam Hussein, to say nothing of bad boyfriends, successful executives, reality show contestants, users of YouTube and Facebook. Jan Hoffman takes a look at a popular descriptor so bloated that it may have been rendered meaningless. PAGE 1
 SUNDAY BUSINESS
 Though Si Newhouse looks more like a kindly grandfather than a media mogul, he has been at the helm of Conde Nast, one of the country's largest and most influential media companies, for the last three decades. But can his quiet, idiosyncratic way of running his company continue to be successful as the newspaper and magazine industries are buffeted by hard times? PAGE 1
 TRAVEL
 If dodging DVD hawkers and tourists in Vietnam's southern cities has grown tiresome, the next move can only be to take the show on the road. A bike trip yields room both for breath and a chance to get gently lost around the Mekong Delta, fortified by strong Vietnamese coffee and the guidance of locals. Just make sure you reach the ferry in time for a lift back. PAGE 3 
 WEEK IN REVIEW
 The relationship between the Central Intelligence Agency and its Pakistani counterpart, the Directorate for Inter-Services Intelligence, or I.S.I., is one of deep distrust. But Mark Mazzetti writes that the two need each other: Without the I.S.I.'s help, American spies in Pakistan would be incapable of hunting Islamic militants, and without the millions of covert American dollars sent annually to Pakistan, the I.S.I. would have trouble competing with the spy service of its archrival, India. PAGE 1
 Editorial
 BLACK MARKS FOR THE RED CROSS
 One thing Americans do not want to hear when they are injured or face surgery is that blood from the American Red Cross may actually harm them. The organization's sloppy procedures and its lethargy in investigating possible harm have put untold numbers at risk. PAGE A16
 HELP FOR VICTIMIZED CHILDREN
 Children who are forced into prostitution would have a much better chance to build normal lives if the country stopped treating them as criminals and began to see them as the victims that they clearly are. PAGE A16
 ANOTHER SPECIES IN DANGER
 The wolverine is facing three powerful foes: climate change, increased winter recreation in the Rocky Mountains and the Bush administration's disdain for the Endangered Species Act. PAGE A16
 op-ed
 BOB HERBERT
 Al Gore is offering a road map to energy independence and a resurgence of America's can-do spirit. PAGE A17
 GAIL COLLINS
 John McCain, who had been demanding that Barack Obama visit Iraq, is now denouncing him for not having gone sooner, more often, and before making policy speeches on the Middle East. You could pose the question in the opposite direction. Why is Obama going at all? Really, anybody he needs to talk to would be happy to pick up a phone. PAGE A17
 EYES OFF THE PRICE
 We may be paying too much attention to what we spend on gasoline -- and not enough to our other soaring expenses. That's because of the way we stand at the pump watching the numbers rise, Dan Ariely writes in an article. PAGE A17

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); FOOD CHARITIES (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (68%); POLITICS (65%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%); AGRICULTURE (50%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%)

PERSON: CRISTINA FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (62%); BAN KI-MOON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (70%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008



458 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ART REVIEW 'AFTER NATURE'; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Sometimes the Darkest Visions Boast the Blackest Humor

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

 BODY:
''After Nature,'' the big new show at the New Museum, is a strange, lugubrious, wildly uneven dream of an exhibition. Inspired partly by the book-length poem of that title by the German writer W. G. Sebald, it exudes a distinctly European spirit of ruminative pessimism relieved intermittently by moments of black humor and otherworldly fantasy. It lurches from transcendentally thrilling to portentous to kitschy. 
 Organized by Massimiliano Gioni, the museum's director of special exhibitions, the show fills all three of the main floors with more than 90 works by 26 artists. Many of the artists are better known in Europe than the United States; most are living. No stylistic trends prevail, but many of these artists will be familiar -- in some cases, overly familiar -- to followers of the international avant-garde. 
 The exhibition opens on the second floor with a looping version of the 1992 film ''Lessons of Darkness,'' Werner Herzog's hair-raisingly beautiful look at the burning oil fields of Kuwait after the Persian Gulf war. Taking its cue from the film, the exhibition sets out to evoke a metaphorical landscape of death and destruction. ''It is a land of wilderness and ruins,'' Mr. Gioni writes in his catalog essay, ''that exists in an imaginary time zone between a remote past and a not-so-distant future.'' 
 Not everything in the exhibition contributes equally to that romantically dark vision. Taking up much of the second floor, for example, is an array of remarkably ugly figurative sculptures in various styles and materials by Pawel Althamer. The most interesting are stuffed with straw and have skin made from stretched and stitched animal intestines. 
 A life-size nude self-portrait of the artist with veiny yellow skin is impressively visceral, but there is something cliched about the faux-primitivism that Mr. Althamer favors. And his self-consciously clever play with other styles in other works -- classical Greek, Surrealist, Conceptual -- is exceedingly unoriginal. 
 Mr. Gioni's vision is most vividly realized on the fourth floor, where the elevator doors open onto a stunning tableau. To the left stands an old dead tree held upright by cables and metal stanchions, an arboreal Frankenstein's monster; to the right, a full-size bay horse hangs by the neck in the air, its head seemingly buried in the wall. It's as though the horse had been left there by receding floodwaters.
 Together these two sculptures -- the tree by Zoe Leonard, the horse by Maurizio Cattelan -- form a scene that seems at once tragic and absurd, like a stage set for a play by Samuel Beckett. Nothing else in the exhibition is so powerfully economical; the other floors seem cluttered by comparison.
 A polemical thrust emerges on the third floor, which is dominated by Robert Kusmirowski's full-scale reproduction of Theodore Kaczynski's famous cabin. This is the show's most unfortunate inclusion; the Unabomber's cabin has been exhausted as a motif in American art, if not in Europe. (Mr. Kusmirowski lives in Poland.) On the wall just behind the cabin hang terrifically vivid paintings from the 1950s by the outsider artist Eugene Von Bruenchenhein, who used a technique similar to finger painting to create luminous and luridly hued improvisations suggestive of cosmic explosions. 
 On an adjacent wall, a label quotes Thoreau. It reads, in part, ''I wish to speak a word for nature, for absolute Freedom and Wildness, as contrasted with a freedom and culture merely civil.'' 
 ''After Nature'' is not, then, a show about environmental politics. The landscape it evokes is a spiritual one like that of T. S. Eliot's ''Waste Land.'' It looks for salvation in a revival of what Mr. Gioni calls the ''mythopoetic function of art'' and in the fantasies of the prophet in the wilderness. But excepting the Rev. Howard Finster, who is represented by notecards covered with handwritten meditations, and Mr. Von Bruenchenhein, there are no real outsider visionaries in this show. It is populated mainly by highly sophisticated insiders.
 There are works of metaphorical resonance. A sculpture by Berlinde De Bruyckere, enclosed in an old glass vitrine like a natural history specimen, is a pale gray wax figure of a naked man whose head and shoulders have been engulfed by tree roots and branches also cast in wax. Something similar is happening in William Christenberry's photographs of houses and trees overwhelmed by kudzu in the American South. And in a roughly animated video by Nathalie Djurberg called ''My Name Is Mud,'' a greedy, evil blob of mud floods a town and swallows up a cow. 
 It's as though nature has gone insane: in a sumptuously expressionist cartoon of a painting by Dana Schutz, a man eats a hole through his own chest. 
 Other works are not so magical. Thomas Schutte's set of ceramic heads on steel poles, like war trophies, is heavy-handed. Roberto Cuoghi's maplike paintings on layered panes of glass representing the countries on President Bush's axis of evil are pretty but ideologically pat. Diego Perrone's oversize photographs of holes he dug in the ground are uninteresting and take up far too much space. 
 An installation by Allora and Calzadilla, in which a big hanging plant basks in a Jenny Holzer light sculpture, is gimmicky. A piece by Tino Sehgal, in which a live dancer continuously performs in slow motion, looks as though it belongs in a different exhibition. 
 Videos, on the other hand, are among the show's most intriguing works. Artur Zmijewski's riveting film of two naked men -- one has had his leg amputated -- walking in tandem up and down stairs and in the woods, ends on a funny-sad note: they lie on a bare wooden floor and perform a silly dance routine to the accompaniment of their own whistling.
 A slackerish short video by Eric van Lieshout follows his mother to Tanzania to give foot massages to AIDS patients. It mixes distressing shots of sick Africans with funny conversations among the artist and his mother and his editor-sidekick. The comedy flirts knowingly with bad taste in the interest of moral complexity. 
 A video by Klara Liden is oddly soothing. Running on a cheap TV in a cardboard hideaway off the stairs between the third and fourth floors, it shows the artist moonwalking slowly and hypnotically through the New York streets at night.
 From behind a grill on the second floor comes the noise of a bird rustling and screeching, as though desperately trying to escape its cage. A sound piece by Micol Assael, it suggests the human soul trapped in the labyrinthine corridors of modern consciousness. It might also be the spirit of an exhibition that, however fascinating in parts, is too weighed down by mundane works to really fly. 
 ''After Nature'' continues through Sept. 21 at the New Museum, 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side; (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After Nature: Among the works on exhibition at the New Museum is Thomas Schutte's ''Magnificent Seven.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Top, ''Unacabine,'' Robert Kusmirowski's full-scale reproduction of Theodore Kaczynski's cabin. Left, ''Tree,'' by Zoe Leonard. Above, Eugene Von Bruenchenhein's ''Beyond Our Vision, the Entanglements of Time, Conquest of the Unknown.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); HORSES (78%); WRITERS (72%); DESERT STORM (67%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KUWAIT (79%); EUROPE (78%); UNITED STATES (76%); GERMANY (73%); GULF STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008



459 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: To Save Gas, Shoppers Stay Home And Click

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
To go shopping these days, more Americans are trading in their car keys for a keyboard.
 Online shopping is gaining at a time when simply filling up a gas tank to head to the mall can seem like a spending spree. 
 A number of retailers -- including Gap, Victoria's Secret and J. C. Penney -- are experiencing double-digit sales growth at their shopping Web sites, creating a surprising bright spot during an otherwise gloomy time for sales in brick-and-mortar stores. 
 One popular strategy for getting shoppers' attention is offering free shipping, in contrast to many other businesses, like airlines, that are adding surcharges and other fees to offset their higher costs. 
 The Web sites of Neiman Marcus, Saks, Nordstrom, Bloomingdale's, Macy's, Bon-Ton Stores, Aeropostale, American Eagle Outfitters, Target and Kmart were all offering a deal on shipping this week. 
 ''With gas being such an issue, we know that mall traffic is down more than off-mall traffic,'' said Mike Boylson, chief marketing officer for J. C. Penney, which had an 8.7 percent increase in Internet sales in the first quarter of this year. 
 That is in contrast to a 7.4 percent decrease in sales at stores open at least a year, known as same-store sales and a measure of retail health. ''We see more people turning to online because it's much more efficient in terms of time and money,'' Mr. Boylson said. 
 Retailers are walking a fine line in encouraging online sales. Of course, they are happy to attract more shoppers to their Web sites, but not at the expense of in-store sales -- an important measure for investors. 
 Then again, the Web can drive in-store business, whether shoppers go into a store to return an online purchase or whether they buy an out-of-stock item through a computer at the store.
 Lately Nichelle Hines, an actress in Los Angeles, has been shopping online for everything but gas itself -- pet supplies, books, DVDs, water filters, kitchen appliances, a dress, her favorite health drink and materials to build a voiceover booth so she does not have to drive to a recording studio. 
 ''It has saved us,'' said Ms. Hines, who lives with her boyfriend, Charles, the builder of the booth. ''And we really just started doing this three or four months ago just from sheer desperation of spending money on gallons of gas.''
 When she does have to drive somewhere, Ms. Hines says she goes online first to note the location of the nearest gas station. 
 ''I'm a computer illiterate person,'' she said. ''But I'm becoming much more literate as a result of gas prices.'' 
 Victoria's Secret, too, has had an online sales increase. Its catalog and Internet sales were up 11 percent in the first quarter of this year while same-store sales declined 8 percent, according to Maggie Taylor, vice president, senior credit officer at Moody's Investors Service. 
 Gap had an 11 percent decline in same-store sales in the first quarter, but a 21 percent increase in online sales. About six weeks ago, just in time for the back-to-school shopping season, Gap reinvented its e-commerce operations, enabling consumers to shop the Web sites of all of its brands -- Gap, Old Navy and Banana Republic as well as its newest, Piperlime, an online shoe store -- with a single virtual shopping cart and a flat $7 shipping fee. 
 ''Parents don't want to drive to four different stores, two different malls,'' said Kris Marubio, a spokeswoman for Gap Inc. The new Web design ''helps time-pressed and gas-price sensitive parents achieve their back-to-school shopping goals in less time and at less cost,'' she added. 
 The number of shoppers visiting Web sites that offer discounts has jumped, too. Over all, the number of visits to what are known as coupon Web sites increased 21 percent from June 2007 to this June, according to the Internet audience measurement company comScore Media Metrix.
 CouponWinner.com, which works with more than 2,000 retailers, had an 186 percent increase in traffic from February to June of this year, according to comScore. Another such site, ShopItToMe.com, which sends alerts to members when their favorite brands go on sale in their sizes at retailers including Saks, Bloomingdale's, Nordstrom, Ralph Lauren and J. Crew, has more than doubled its membership in the last three months, according to the site's founder, Charlie Graham. 
 ''People are feeling less comfortable going out to the stores or driving two hours to outlet stores because of gas,'' Mr. Graham said. ''It almost doesn't pay for itself.''
 Online retail sales, often made all the more alluring by the lack of sales tax, have grown right from the start, but still represent a small percentage of total retail sales. And while e-commerce growth has slowed in the current economic downturn, analysts do not expect it to cease. In fact, online sales represent one of the only positives for many retailers. 
 ''E-commerce, when you compare it to store retail is a bright spot because whereas store growth is in the middle low single digits e-commerce is still growing at least in the mid to highteens,'' said Jeffrey Grau, retail e-commerce senior analyst with eMarketer. 
 Internet sales are expected to surpass $200 billion this year, up from $175 billion in 2007, according to Forrester Research. Given that growth, Moody's, the credit rating agency, said last month that it would begin giving retailers' Internet sales and strategies more weight when analyzing the companies. And retailers like J. C. Penney and Target have begun including online sales in their same-store sales figures. 
 ''Online is starting to matter, and it is performing well,'' said Ms. Taylor of Moody's. ''Now that it is big enough to matter, companies want to call it out.'' 
 To encourage the trend, retailers are investing in online operations and experimenting with new marketing techniques. Even retailers that are scaling back in their physical stores are expanding or enhancing online operations, which are by and large the fastest growing parts of their company. The shopping Web sites themselves are becoming speedier, easier to navigate and filled with more products. 
 A couple of months ago, Sears Holdings began working with a company called RichRelevance, which makes technology that monitors 15 to 25 consumer behaviors -- like how visitors navigate through a retailer's Web site and how they arrived at the site -- and then suggests products the consumer may like. 
 ''We want to make sure customers are finding these products,'' said Imran Jooma, vice president for e-commerce at Sears, who explained that such online initiatives are ''just the beginning for us.'' 
 Investing in online operations is less risky than investing in real world stores because Web sites do not require the same level of personnel or resources. 
 What is potentially risky, though, is an emerging fuel-centric marketing technique. 
 ''Do you really want to remind people how much it costs to fill up their tank?,'' said Scott Silverman, executive director of Shop.org, a retail industry group.
 For some retailers the answer is yes. EBags.com, a purveyor of items like dainty clutches and backpacks, sent more than a million members an e-mail message late last month with an illustration of gas pumps set at various migraine-inducing prices. Then there was a pump that said ''eBags.'' It was set at $0. 
 ''Paying too much to get from here to there?'' the accompanying text read. ''Skip the mall. We'll ship it to you for free.''
 Then again, these days some consumers do not mind paying for shipping.
 ''A lot of shipping costs are $3 and $5,'' said Jessica Delmar, 23, a manager for a technology company in San Francisco who says she rarely sees the inside of stores anymore. ''That's even less than a gallon of gas now.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nichelle Hines says she shops from her home in Los Angeles because of ''sheer desperation.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C5) CHARTS: Sales Rise Online: Online sales, while growing at a slower rate these days, nonetheless represent a silver lining for companies like Gap, which has had sluggish sales in all its various brick-and-mortar stores.(Source: Gap)Chart details bar grapgs for change in sales from a year earlier. (pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET RETAILING (91%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (77%); GAS STATIONS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%)

COMPANY: VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (58%); AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC (56%); BON-TON STORES INC (56%)

TICKER: AEO (NYSE) (56%); BONT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (56%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (56%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (56%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008



460 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: At $2.5 Billion, Citi's Loss Is Less Than Forecast

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Hobbled by the credit crisis at home, Citigroup has limped through nine months in the red, reporting a $2.5 billion quarterly loss on Friday.
 But across the financial company's global empire, which spans more than 100 countries, similar tremors may be starting. In countries like Mexico, Brazil and India, loans in areas like home mortgages and credit cards are beginning to sour, as they have in the United States. 
 So far the problems are small. And Citigroup executives, who have spent months trying to turn the company around, say it is too soon to tell how much the problems might spread. The troubles hint at what could be in store for other American companies that rely on earnings from overseas, particularly when times are lean at home. 
 ''We have clearly had some deterioration in credit internationally,'' said Gary L. Crittenden, the chief financial officer of Citigroup. ''That's not isolated to Citigroup, that's a broader question.''
 The loss that Citigroup reported on Friday was not as gaping as many investors had feared. Wall Street cheered the results, which only a year ago would have been seen as disastrous. 
 For the quarter Citigroup lost 54 cents a share, and reported write-downs of $7.2 billion on its investments. On the consumer debt front, the bank also announced $4.4 billion in net credit losses and $2.5 billion to increase credit reserves.
 Citigroup's chief executive, Vikram S. Pandit, characterized the $2.5 billion loss as a sign of progress, compared with last quarter's loss of $5.1 billion. Mr. Crittenden said revenues were at their strongest ever in several businesses, including prime brokerage and currency trading, and that this June nearly reached the record revenues of June 2007.
 After so much bad news from the financial industry, investors took heart from the results. Shares of Citigroup rose $1.38, or about 8 percent, to $19.35. The showing at Citigroup, combined with stronger-than-expected earnings earlier in the week from JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo, helped the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index snap a six-week losing streak. The index rose 21 points, or 1.7 percent, for the week.
 ''Investors are happy that the write-downs are under control,'' said Stuart Plesser, the banking analyst at Standard & Poor's Equity Research. ''That's what's driving Citigroup's price now -- their write-downs.''
 Citigroup has long prided itself on its global footprint, building out more than half of its retail 8,300 branches in countries other than the United States. The bank's presence around the world sets it apart from its competitors like Bank of America and Wachovia. 
 Before the credit problems began, Citigroup was earning nearly 50 percent of its revenues outside North America -- an earnings diversification more similar to major packaged goods companies than commercial banks. 
 Economists say that multinational companies should better withstand the downturn in the United States, because of their foreign revenues. 
 ''It's really: how much of a break will these earnings provide? And the answer is some, but we don't know how much yet,'' said Peter Cappelli, a professor of management at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. 
 Mr. Crittenden said it was too early to tell if there will be substantial downturns in Citigroup's consumer markets outside the United States. 
 He pointed out consumer loans that were 90-days past due by region. In Europe and Asia, the percentage of outstanding loans overdue has moved up only slightly. But Latin America has seen its percentage jump from 2.86 percent in the second quarter last year to 3.54 percent in the current second quarter, which was mostly caused by problems in Mexico, he said.
 Net credit losses in consumer banking has jumped tenfold in Latin America and 61 percent in Asia, though that movement is on dollar amounts that are small to the bank's overall holdings.
 Traditionally consumer finance problems move from the United States to foreign markets six to nine months later, said Vincent Breitenbach, head of credit research in the Americas for Barclays Capital. David Jiang, a credit research analyst at Barclays, said international lending is something he is watching as he analyzes banks.
 ''International has not yet shown the same cracks we've seen in North America,'' Mr. Jiang said. ''If we start to see a similar level of deterioration, it's just another problem the banks have to contend with.''
 At Citigroup, the global Achilles' heel seems to be in its credit cards business. The biggest shortfalls are in North America, where during the last year the bank has charged off more than $2 billion of its loans there and reserved more than $1 billion for future loan losses. Those charges have helped push the bank's net income in the region down by 75 percent.
 But credit card income in Europe, the Middle East and Africa fell by 64 percent during that same period, even as revenues have grown. That disparity is caused by large charge-offs and loss reserves set aside for the region on the expectation that more credit card debt will sour there.
 While foreign markets are not at the forefront of banking problems, economists have been predicting slower growth in nearly every region of the world. 
 Standard & Poor's Equity Research predicts that Europe's gross domestic product will grow at 1.7 percent this year, down from 2.7 percent last year, and that growth in Latin America will slow to 4.6 percent, from 5.2 percent. Even China and India are predicted to slow. Profit growth tends to track economic growth.
 At Citigroup, a global slowdown could affect other parts of its business. Mr. Crittenden said the bank's earnings in its global wealth management division were hurt in the second-quarter because of the decline in the stock markets in India and China.
 Foreign loan-loss reserves and net credit losses at Citigroup are just barely starting to inch upward. Most of the foreign increase in credit cards was in Mexico and Brazil. In consumer banking, the problem was in India, where residential mortgages hit trouble.
 Economists said it was too early to see much foreign impact on company earnings. 
 ''The epicenter, if you like, of the problems in the economy is in the U.S. at the moment,'' said Paul Sheard, global chief economist at Lehman Brothers. ''But we're looking for a slowdown across the board. While growth is still quite strong in a lot of these economies, they are running into stronger headwinds.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); CURRENCIES (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); WELLS FARGO & CO (85%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); WFC (NYSE) (85%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: VIKRAM PANDIT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (92%); INDIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008



461 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; FARNBOROUGH AIR SHOW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Sales of Private Jets Slipping in U.S.

BYLINE: By CAROLINE BROTHERS and MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: FARNBOROUGH, England 

 BODY:
Given the misery of air travel these days, private jet makers may seem to have a built-in selling point, particularly among customers in the United States.
 But manufacturers at the Farnborough International Airshow said this week that they were seeing signs that private jet sales in the American market were beginning to soften. 
 The American market, traditionally the world's biggest for business jets, has slipped well below 50 percent of global sales in recent months, according to Honeywell, the world's largest maker of avionics, the electronic systems that are used to operate planes. 
 At the end of 2007, American sales made up just 30 percent of global jet sales, Honeywell's data showed.
 That slump is attributed to worries about the American economy and the growth of other markets, like Russia, South Asia and the Middle East. Interestingly, manufacturers say the price of jet fuel, which has nearly doubled from a year ago, is not much of a factor.
 To be sure, the drop is a recent development for the American market, which dominated jet sales for a decade. Makers of private jets -- Bombardier of Canada, Dassault Aviation in France and Embraer of Brazil -- are watching the market carefully. 
 ''Already we are seeing a slowdown in business jets in the United States,'' Federico Curado, the chief executive of Embraer, said at the Farnborough air show, outside London. 
 Pierre Beaudoin, the chairman of Bombardier, which makes the Learjet and the longer-range Global Express private jet, said he noticed a ''softening'' of the American market in April, though he stopped short of calling it a slowdown. 
 ''The United States is still growing, but its significance as a market has been reduced,'' David Dixon, head of business aircraft for the Asia-Pacific region at Bombardier, said.
 ''The initial indicator is in the charter market -- that is increasing; discretionary calls to charters have shown some change,'' Mr. Dixon said. In times of economic uncertainty, customers may hold off buying an aircraft, choosing to charter a plane or sign up with a fractional ownership company like NetJets, which allows them to buy travel time on corporate jets.
 The situation is a sharp contrast to past air shows, where customers flocked to see the latest technology and cabin features. 
 At the Paris air show in 2005, executives stood in line in the rain to see Bombardier's Global 5000, a luxury jet likened to a Porsche among Volkswagens. Back then, private jet sales were thriving and manufacturers boasted of billion-dollar backlogs.
 Private jet sales have softened once before in this decade. In 2000, many buyers canceled orders after the technology bubble burst, causing double-digit declines for jet sales. They began to rebound after the September 2001 attacks, when tightened security led many companies to put their executives on private planes.
 Executives at Farnborough said the business jet market was less directly susceptible to oil price fluctuations, since customers were typically wealthy and chief executives of corporations -- though cost-cutting could eventually hit them also. 
 But Mr. Curado said that financing was becoming more difficult for private plane purchases, which could be a concern given that Embraer is bringing out more business jets. At Farnborough, Embraer showed its Legacy 600 executive jet that can carry 14, as well as a mock-up for a new jet, the Phenom, and a cross-section of another plane, the Lineage, a bigger luxury jet. 
 ''The first signal of a downturn is demand for new jets,'' Mr. Curado said. ''The second is financing for planes already on order, and the third level of problems is cancellations or deferrals.'' 
 ''So far credit today is much more selective than a year ago,'' he said. ''It's not as easy as six months ago to finance new aircraft.'' 
 That could benefit companies able to pay cash or arrange their own financing, especially those in growth markets like the Middle East and Russia.
 Even so, American companies will continue to use private jets for ferrying executives whose time is valuable, said Robert W. Mann Jr., an airline industry analyst in Port Washington, N.Y. 
 ''Scheduled airline travel no longer meets their needs,'' Mr. Mann said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An idle moment for a salesman for Cessna at the Farnborough show. While charter use is up, private aircraft sales are down.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN PLAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); AVIONICS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); JET FUEL (73%); FUEL MARKETS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

COMPANY: EMBRAER SA (93%); BOMBARDIER INC (83%); DASSAULT AVIATION SA (55%); NETJETS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (84%)

TICKER: ERJ (NYSE) (93%); EMBR3 (BOVESPA) (93%); BBD.A (TSX) (83%); AM (PAR) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (93%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (93%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (90%); FRANCE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (71%); ENGLAND (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008



462 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Cuba Plans To Provide More Land For Farmers

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
President Raul Castro continued his rollout of changes in Cuba on Friday with the start of a plan to boost the island's sluggish food production by granting private farmers access to up to 99 acres of unused government land.
 Cuba seized land from most large-scale farmers after the 1959 revolution; the latest announcement in the Communist Party newspaper Granma stopped well short of a return to pre-revolution private enterprise. 
 Under the new system, private farmers, who have continued to exist under Cuba's socialist system, would have access to the plots for up to a decade, with leases renewable if conditions were met and taxes paid. Cooperatives and state farms would also qualify for more land, for up to 25 years. But the fields would stay in the hands of the government, which controls an estimated 90 percent of the island's economy.
 The new plan, mentioned several months ago but formally announced Friday, is intended to jump-start food production at a time when Cuba is feeling the effects of the global rise in food prices. Last year, Cuba spent nearly $1.5 billion for food imports, much of that from producers in the United States that were granted a special exemption from Washington's trade embargo on Cuba. This year, the island's bill for food imports is expected to rise by another $1 billion, officials have said, calling the issue one of national security.
 Cuba's government released statistics last month showing that fallow or underused agricultural land had increased to 55 percent in 2007, up from 46 percent five years earlier, The Associated Press reported. 
 The announcement on Friday acknowledged the struggle that the country was facing in feeding itself. ''For various reasons, there is a considerable percentage of state land sitting vacant, so it must be handed over to individuals or groups as owners or users in an effort to increase production of food and reduce imports,'' the government decree said.
 The plan appeared partly designed to prompt more Cubans, who are drawn to the cities for more opportunity, to give agriculture a try. Those who do not currently farm any land would be given access to up to 33 acres for farming, the government said.
 Mr. Castro took over provisionally for his ailing brother, Fidel, in July 2006. But he has begun putting his own stamp on the country only since February, when he formally became the second president of Cuba in the last half century. In recent months, he has allowed Cubans with enough money to buy cellphones and computers, which had previously been restricted. He has allowed them to rent cars and visit tourist hotels and opened up the possibility of private taxis. And he has taken the limits off state salaries, allowing for productivity bonuses. 
 Where he has stood firm is on political dissent, continuing his brother's insistence that overt criticism of the system and government amounted to disloyalty.
 Many Cubans relished the changes even as they complained bitterly that giving them access to consumer items did little to boost their state salaries.
 In a speech at the close of the National Assembly earlier this month, the president made clear that he was remaking some aspects of the country. The ideal of everyone, a doctor or a laborer, earning the same amount, with no regard to productivity, seems to be fading. ''Socialism means social justice and equality, but equality of rights, of opportunities, not of income,'' he said. ''Equality is not egalitarianism.''
 In the speech, Mr. Castro prepared Cubans for tough times ahead. ''It's my duty to speak frankly, because it would be unethical to create false expectations,'' he said. ''To tell you otherwise would be misleading.''
 He went on to exhort Cubans to make the island more self-sufficient. ''We must go back to the land,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); POLITICS (79%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); STATISTICS (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (64%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008



463 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Yes We Can

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
As I was listening to Al Gore on the telephone, I was thinking: ''Uh-oh, the naysayers will have a field day with this one.''
 The former vice president was giving me an advanced briefing on the speech that he delivered on Thursday, calling on the United States to behave like a great nation and actually do something real about its self-destructive and ultimately unsustainable reliance on carbon-based fuel for its 21st-century energy needs.
 ''I'm going to issue a strategic challenge that the United States of America set a goal of getting 100 percent of our electricity from renewable resources and carbon-constrained fuels within 10 years,'' he said. 
 ''One hundred percent?'' I said.
 ''One hundred percent.''
 Mr. Gore's focus is primarily on solar, wind and geothermal energy. His belief is that a dramatic, wholesale transition to these abundant and renewable sources of energy is not just doable, but essential.
 My view of Mr. Gore's passionate engagement with some of the biggest issues of our time is that he is offering us the kind of vision and sense of urgency that has been so lacking in the presidential campaigns. But the tendency in a society that is skeptical, if not phobic, about anything progressive has been to dismiss his large ideas and wise counsel, as George H. W. Bush once did by deriding him as ''ozone man.''
 The naysayers will tell you that once again Al Gore is dreaming, that the costs of his visionary energy challenge are too high, the technological obstacles too tough, the timeline too short and the political lift much too heavy. 
 But that's the thing about visionaries. They don't imagine what's easy. They imagine the benefits to be reaped once all the obstacles are overcome. Mr. Gore will tell you about the wind blowing through the corridor that stretches from Mexico to Canada, through the Plains states, and the tremendous amounts of electricity that would come from capturing the energy of that wind -- enough to light up cities and towns from coast to coast. 
 ''We need to make a big, massive, one-off investment to transform our energy infrastructure from one that relies on a dirty, expensive fuel to fuel that is free,'' said Mr. Gore. ''The sun and the wind and geothermal are not going to run out, and we don't have to export them from the Persian Gulf, and they are not increasing in price.
 ''And since the only factor that controls the price is the efficiency and innovation that goes into the equipment that transforms it into electricity, once you start getting the scales that we're anticipating, those systems come down in cost.''
 The correct response to Mr. Gore's proposal would be a rush to figure out ways to make it happen. Don't hold your breath.
 When exactly was it that the U.S. became a can't-do society? It wasn't at the very beginning when 13 ragamuffin colonies went to war against the world's mightiest empire. It wasn't during World War II when Japan and Nazi Germany had to be fought simultaneously. It wasn't in the postwar period that gave us the Marshall Plan and a robust G.I. Bill and the interstate highway system and the space program and the civil rights movement and the women's movement and the greatest society the world had ever known.
 When was it?
 Now we can't even lift New Orleans off its knees.
 In his speech, delivered in Washington, Mr. Gore said: ''We're borrowing money from China to buy oil from the Persian Gulf to burn it in ways that destroy the planet.''
 He described carbon-based fuel as the thread running through the global climate crisis, America's economic woes and its most serious national security threats. He then asked: ''What if we could use fuels that are not expensive, don't cause pollution and are abundantly available right here at home?''
 Americans are extremely anxious at the moment, and I think part of it has to do with a deeply unsettling feeling that the nation may not be up to the tremendous challenges it is facing. A recent poll by the Rockefeller Foundation and Time magazine that focused on economic issues found a deep pessimism running through respondents. 
 According to Margot Brandenburg, an official with the foundation, nearly half of 18- to 29-year-olds ''feel that America's best days are in the past.''
 The moment is ripe for exactly the kind of challenge issued by Mr. Gore on Thursday. It doesn't matter if his proposal is less than perfect, or can't be realized within 10 years, or even it if is found to be deeply flawed. The goal is the thing.
 The fetish for drilling for ever more oil is the perfect metaphor these days. The first thing you do when you find yourself in a hole is stop digging. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (75%); ENERGY DEMAND (75%); WIND ENERGY (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

PERSON: AL GORE (90%); GEORGE H W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (71%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008



464 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Chief Says Exxon Will Keep Doing What It's Doing

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
OIL prices had their biggest ever drop this week, falling by more than $16 a barrel in the last four days. Still, oil remains at stratospheric levels, settling at $128.88 a barrel on Friday. And with global oil consumption still growing faster than new supplies, there are few remedies. In an interview, Rex W. Tillerson, the chief executive of Exxon Mobil, shared his views on oil prices, the role of Western companies in a world increasingly dominated by state-owned energy giants and the future for alternative fuels in a fossil fuel world.
 Q.The debate lately has centered around expanding domestic drilling. But many say this will do nothing to reduce prices now because it takes 10 years before any new production comes online. 
 A. If you use that logic, then we should not have any of the barrels that are available today. All of today's supplies were developed years ago. It is nonsensical for people to make that argument. It reflects the ongoing difficulty we have with people who don't understand the nature of the energy system. 
 Q.Sure, but the argument is that we should focus on the demand side of the equation and that we cannot drill out of this problem.
 A. Well, you can't conserve yourself out of this problem either. You can't replace your fuels with alternatives out of this problem either. The reason the United States has never had an energy policy is because an energy policy needs to be left alone for 15 to 20 years to take effect. But our policy makers want a two-year energy policy to fit with the election cycle because that is what people want. The answer is you can't fix it right now. 
 Q.Globally, the picture for oil supplies looks pretty bleak. Where are new supplies going to come from in the next five years?
 A. There is an access issue, in this country, and in many countries around the world. The problem with the supply side of the equation is a problem of accessing the resources in the ground so they can be explored and developed. That's a political question where governments have made choices. This is something where the United States has to look at the mirror first. 
 Q.Aren't we paying the price for more than a decade of underinvestment in new oil supplies when prices were low in the 1990s?
 A. This business is always a function of, can you earn an acceptable return for the risks you are taking. This is still an enormously risky business. We don't advertise our $100 million dry holes. We've been able to do that thanks to careful risk management. The costs of our failures are born by our ability to be successful in other areas. In the 1990s, there was a big surplus. You could also say the industry paid a big price for having overinvested in the 1970s and 1980s. 
 Q.Doesn't the obsession with high returns close the door to many opportunities?
 A. We manage the business to be economic and robust across a wide range of business environments because that is what we have experienced over the past 100 years, a pretty wide range of business environments. We don't think our approach is leaving us out of any opportunities. 
 Q.You were an early critic of biofuels, and you once referred to ethanol as ''moonshine.'' What role do you see for alternative fuels, including ethanol?
 A. There is no question in my mind that we will develop a replacement fuel for conventional motor gasoline. But we will also develop other ways to use fossil fuels for transportation that are more efficient and more environmentally friendly. We've made the point that we're spending our time and effort to look at what is the next technological leap for transportation fuels, and what are the technologies that Exxon possesses that can contribute to that breakthrough. 
 Q.Would it be wrong then for government to tax windfall profits to finance research into alternative fuels?
 A. Why would you want to tax windfall profits to do so? Why target a specific industry when you are looking to raise revenue? The last time government taxed windfall profits, it was a disaster. Why would you want to do so again? Any taxing program that targets a specific industry is never a very good idea.
 Q.What can be done today to reduce oil and gasoline prices?
 A. In the near term, the most immediate steps we can take are going to largely be around efficiency. We're already seeing people responding that way, by using mass transportation and economizing the trips they take. 
 Q.Oil prices dropped by $16 in four days. Is the bubble bursting?
 A. It is difficult for me to explain or rationalize the high level of oil prices we've seen in the last four to six months. We've seen that kind of volatility in the upside. But it is too early to generalize without looking at the longer term trends.
 Q.What do you think about the role of financial institutions, sometimes referred to as speculators, in commodity markets? Is Congress right to look into that?
 A. As long as we keep our terminology straight here and don't get speculation confused with manipulation. Speculation in all markets, not just in oil but in commodity and capital markets, plays a useful and important role in risk management and in bringing liquidity. It would be proper for policy makers to ensure that the functioning of the market is not providing for a manipulation of the price. 
 Q.Many energy experts were caught flatfooted by the rapid rise in prices in recent years. How do you explain it?
 A. I was surprised by how rapidly the price ran and how high it ran. It clearly is a demand-driven price run-up that we've seen, especially in emerging economies because of price controls and subsidies. We are not seeing the normal market signals responding normally. That's one of the causes behind the rapid run-up.
 Q:Where do you see your company in 20 years? Will oil and gas still be your dominant business?
 A: Yes. In 2030, oil and gas will represent 60 percent of the world's energy needs. My view is I am going to keep doing what we do better than anyone else in the world -- finding, developing and delivering oil and gas to the world. We will still be doing it in 20 years because people will still be needing it. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rex W. Tillerson (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSANA VERA/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (79%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (79%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (74%); CONSUMPTION (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (63%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (96%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (96%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (96%)

PERSON: REX W TILLERSON (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008



465 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Iran Open To Discuss U.S. Offices In Tehran

BYLINE: By SEBNEM ARSU

DATELINE: ISTANBUL 

 BODY:
Iran's foreign minister said on Friday that his country was open to discussing the establishment by the Bush administration of the first American diplomatic presence in Tehran since relations were severed nearly three decades ago. 
 The minister, Manouchehr Mottaki, welcomed as a ''positive step'' the administration's decision to send a senior American official to participate in international talks with Iran this weekend, and said he expected the talks to make progress.
 Speaking in Ankara, where he was on a one-day official visit with his Turkish counterpart, Ali Babacan, and other senior government officials, Mr. Mottaki said there had been increased demand from Iranians and Americans for better bilateral social and business relations, which had been the basis for earlier proposals for direct flights between the countries. 
 ''I think there can be a meeting both on the opening of a United States Interests Section in Iran and also on starting direct flights,'' he said. ''We have proposed direct flights between the United States and Iran last year, given the intense demand from both American and Iranian people.'' 
 Although there has been no official confirmation, European and American officials have said that the Bush administration was considering establishing an American diplomatic presence in Iran for the first time since relations were ended during the 444-day occupation of the American Embassy in Tehran, which started on Nov. 4, 1979.
 The proposal would be to establish an interests section, rather than a fully staffed embassy, although the officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity under diplomatic rules, have said that the idea has not been approved by the White House and that it could be delayed or blocked by opposition within the administration.
 Speaking to reporters through a Turkish interpreter, Mr. Mottaki said that though he was open to talks on the issue, he was critical of the United States, saying that Iran had heard about the American plan only from the news media, instead of official channels. 
 On Saturday, William J. Burns, the State Department's third-ranking official, was expected in Geneva to participate, along with European Union nations, in talks with Iran aimed at persuading it to suspend uranium enrichment in exchange for economic and political incentives. The European Union's foreign policy chief, Javier Solana, and Tehran's nuclear negotiator, Saeed Jalili, were to take part in the meeting. 
 The Iranian delegation has prepared its own proposals on political, economic and security issues, and was ready to discuss them in detail, Mr. Mottaki said. He described a more positive atmosphere that he said had been created after Mr. Solana's recent visit to Tehran in June to present a document of understanding among the six countries participating in the nuclear talks -- the United States, Germany, Russia, France, Britain and China. 
 The latest steps come as the White House is adopting new tactics in dealing with Iran. With six months left in office, President Bush and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice appear to be looking for new ways to reach out to the Iranian people as the administration tries to bring a peaceful resolution to the impasse over Iran's nuclear program. Referring to the participation of Mr. Burns, of the State Department, in the talks, Mr. Mottaki said in English, ''Formally, it is a new positive approach.''
 In an appearance on NTV, a private television station in Turkey, Mr. Mottaki said: ''The era during which Americans changed certain regimes in the world is over as they experienced everything they wanted to in the last 30 years. On the other hand, we take into consideration and pay attention to every positive effort.''
 The Iranian foreign minister also dismissed any possibility of an Israeli and American joint military operation against Iran. ''The possibility is zero,'' Mr. Mottaki said on NTV.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); APPROVALS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

PERSON: SAEED JALILI (79%); JAVIER SOLANA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); ANKARA, TURKEY (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TURKEY (93%); EUROPE (92%); IRAN (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008



466 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: The Buzz About a McCain-Romney Ticket

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
It was not so long ago that the idea that Senator John McCain would even entertain tapping Mitt Romney, his bitterest primary rival, as his running mate would have seemed preposterous, rating at least 7.0 on the strange-bedfellows scale.
 The McCain-Romney feud was the juiciest of the Republican primary season, featuring two men who generally just did not seem to like each other. Mr. Romney said Mr. McCain would set a ''liberal Democrat course as president.'' He said that one of Mr. McCain's proudest accomplishments, his campaign finance bill, took ''a whack at the First Amendment,'' and told voters grappling with money woes that Mr. McCain ''has said time and again that he doesn't understand the economy.'' Mr. McCain, for his part, witheringly cast Mr. Romney as a flip-flopper.
 But that was then.
 These days Mr. Romney, a telegenic former Massachusetts governor, is serving as a wingman extraordinaire for Mr. McCain on cable television. He has dutifully raised money for Mr. McCain. And Mr. Romney has developed a reputation as a campaign surrogate who can talk fluently about the economy, and who has roots in Michigan, an important swing state. 
 Now Mr. Romney is attracting perhaps more buzz than anyone else as a potential running mate for the man he once derided. 
 And if the initial rapprochement between the two men seemed a tad forced after Mr. Romney pulled out of the race last winter, something approaching warmth seems to be entering their relationship now. At a fund-raiser in Albuquerque this week, Mr. McCain even aimed a gentle jibe at Mr. Romney -- raising eyebrows among veteran McCain watchers, who know that his irreverent teasing and sarcasm are often his way of showing affection. 
 ''Mitt and Ann Romney and Cindy and I have become good friends, and I'm appreciative every time I see Mitt on television on my behalf,'' Mr. McCain told donors at the fund-raiser, according to a pool report of the event. ''He does a better job for me than he did for himself, as a matter of fact.''
 The McCain campaign has been notably tight-lipped about its vice-presidential selection process. But when asked about it, Mr. McCain has tended to say that he does not believe geographical considerations matter much in modern politics -- which might make the Michigan argument weaker -- and that he is most concerned about finding someone who shares his beliefs and who could take over as president if necessary.
 Of course in politics the pragmatic often trumps the personal, and rivals have often wound up sharing tickets, from Lyndon B. Johnson signing on as John F. Kennedy's running mate to George Bush signing on as Ronald Reagan's (after memorably excoriating Mr. Reagan's fiscal proposals as ''voodoo economics''). But that was all in the pre-YouTube era, when political jabs had a much shorter shelf life.
 But for Mr. McCain, who likes to surround himself with friends on the campaign trail, the personal is known to be an important factor. To that end, a social weekend Mr. McCain held for the Romneys and other supporters at his ranch near Sedona, Ariz., this spring was seen as an important turning point in their relationship, and a moment when the McCains and the Romneys seemed to decide that they could get along after all.
 The former rivals spoke the lingua franca of men who are unsure of what to talk about -- sports -- and also talked about their families, politics and some of the funniest moments of the campaign, including the many gustatory delights of the Iowa State Fair, according to several people who were either at the gathering or were later told about it who were granted anonymity to describe the private get-together. 
 At one point, when Mr. McCain offered drinks to his guests, he went out of his way to offer Mr. Romney, a Mormon who does not drink alcohol, a coffee (apparently not realizing that Mormons eschew caffeine as well), said an aide who was told of the encounter later. But the aide said that the gesture seemed appreciated nonetheless. 
 Mr. McCain -- who eagerly tallies the varieties of birds on his property, and likes to show visitors a hawk's nest -- also talked ornithology with Mr. Romney. Mr. Romney later joked at a fund-raiser for Mr. McCain that Mr. McCain had identified 57 varieties of birds on his ranch, but that after a weekend of grilling it was down to 47.
 Several Republican consultants said privately that they doubted Mr. McCain -- and especially some of his staff -- had really overcome their dislike for Mr. Romney, and suggested that if Mr. Romney joined the ticket it would reflect calculation, not affection. Others were less sure of the state of play between the two men. 
 ''They wouldn't be the first running mates in the history of American politics to have said tough things about each other,'' said Dan Schnur, who was Mr. McCain's communications director in 2000. ''The difference here is that John McCain has always been a very visceral politician, very motivated and animated by his likes and dislikes.''
 Mr. Schnur said that Mr. McCain's recent teasing of Mr. Romney suggested some kind of thaw. ''John McCain doesn't insult you if he doesn't like you,'' he said.
 Mike Murphy, a political consultant who has worked for both Mr. McCain and Mr. Romney, said that he thought both men would be able to get along, and forgive things said in the heat of battle. 
 ''McCain is like a character in a John Wayne movie,'' he said. ''His best friend is often the guy he just had a bar brawl with -- as long as he won.''
 Recently, on the back of the McCain campaign bus -- a similar setting to the bus where Mr. McCain and his aides once watched, with apparent relish, television news coverage of a reporter challenging Mr. Romney's honesty during the South Carolina primary -- Mr. McCain said that he and Mr. Romney had truly buried the hatchet.
 ''You know, I've seen other primaries,'' Mr. McCain said on a ride from West Virginia to Ohio. ''And they've been much more spirited, and sometimes much rougher, than ours was.''
 But the primary clashes between the two reflected how Mr. Romney and Mr. McCain often fought bitterly over issues:
 On immigration, Mr. Romney derided Mr. McCain's failed immigration bill as amnesty, and said that all illegal immigrants should be sent back to their home countries before they are allowed to apply for citizenship; Mr. McCain said that they should be forced to pay a fine and learn English, but should be allowed to stay in the United States.
 On the environment, Mr. Romney scorned Mr. McCain's ''cap and trade'' proposal to limit carbon emissions, saying it would amount to an energy tax on families. 
 On the detention center at Guantanamo Bay, which Mr. McCain vowed to close, Mr. Romney said at a debate: ''Some people have said we ought to close Guantanamo. My view is, we ought to double Guantanamo.''
 On waterboarding, Mr. Romney declined to characterize that interrogation tactic, a simulated drowning technique, as torture. Mr. McCain chided him, saying that it was.
 But while Mr. McCain has a reputation for a short temper, he is also known for both seeking and granting forgiveness. After his own bitter, bruising primary fight against George W. Bush in 2000, he became a major supporter of Mr. Bush in 2000 and 2004. ''I frequently refer to him has the Great Reconciler,'' said Charlie Black, a senior McCain adviser who said Mr. McCain and Mr. Romney had become friends.
 Even one of Mr. Romney's biggest drawbacks -- the barbs he aimed at Mr. McCain for months and months -- could be an advantage. Vice-presidential candidates, after all, are traditionally asked to do much of the attacking in campaigns, to give the presidential candidate the chance to appear above the fray.
 To that end, he seemed to be auditioning this week, even suggesting in an interview on NBC's ''Today'' show on Friday that if Senator Barack Obama had been president last year, ''Al Qaeda would be planning attacks against America from Iraq.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Once Senator John McCain's bitter primary rival, former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts has campaigned for Mr. McCain and is attracting attention as a potential running mate.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PATRICK ANDRADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAMIN RAHIMIAN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (69%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008



467 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: McCain Co-Chairman, Under Fire, Steps Aside

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
Former Senator Phil Gramm resigned late Friday as a co-chairman of Senator John McCain's presidential campaign, capping a day filled with controversy for Mr. McCain, the presumed Republican nominee.
 ''It is clear to me that Democrats want to attack me rather than debate Senator McCain on important economic issues facing the country,'' Mr. Gramm said in a statement issued by the campaign. ''That kind of distraction hurts not only Senator McCain's ability to present concrete programs to deal with the country's problems, it hurts the country.''
 Mr. Gramm, a multimillionaire banker, has been under fire since last week, when he dismissed concerns about the troubled economy by referring to ''a mental recession.'' He also said the United States had become ''a nation of whiners,'' a remark providing fodder for Democrats to portray Republicans as out of touch with the concerns of ordinary Americans. 
 Since the start of his campaign, but particularly since the onset of the most recent economic turmoil, Mr. McCain has been struggling to convince voters of his ability to manage the economy, an area he has acknowledged in the past as a weakness. Mr. Gramm, in addition to being a close friend, helped design his economic program and, until last week's gaffe, was being mentioned as a possible treasury secretary in a McCain administration.
 Democrats quickly criticized Mr. Gramm's blaming them Friday for his resignation. ''The question for John McCain isn't whether Phil Gramm will continue as chairman of his campaign, but whether he will continue to keep the economic plan that Gramm authored and that represents a continuation of the polices that have failed American families for the last eight years,'' said Hari Sevugan, a spokesman for the campaign of Senator Barack Obama.
 The Gramm resignation followed a series of sharp exchanges between the two parties about Mr. Obama's long-anticipated trip abroad, including expected stops in Iraq and Afghanistan. In remarks in Michigan and in an advertisement made public Friday, Mr. McCain accused Mr. Obama of neglecting his responsibilities and suggested that he was undermining the war effort.
 When initially asked Thursday about Mr. Obama's trip, Mr. McCain described it as long overdue but also welcome. But he began almost immediately to step up his criticism, a process that continued Friday, when he took part in a town-hall-style meeting at the General Motors Technical Center in suburban Detroit.
 The session was intended to be about energy independence and an electric-powered car that General Motors is developing. But when Mr. McCain's positions on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the possibility of conflict with Iran, were questioned, he responded by attacking Mr. Obama and seeking to justify his support for the Iraq war, which Mr. Obama says was unnecessary and fought on false pretenses.
 ''Every intelligence agency in the world believed Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction,'' Mr. McCain replied, adding that the Hussein government had also violated human rights. He then quickly shifted to the need to persevere, saying he expected attacks by Al Qaeda in Iraq ''so they can erode support for the al-Maliki government'' during the American election campaign.
 ''We will come home with honor and victory, and it will be dictated by facts on the ground,'' he continued. ''We have succeeded, and I am confident we will win victory, and that is all contingent on our commitment to making sure we withdraw according to conditions on the ground.''
 In a speech at a fund-raising luncheon in Detroit, Mr. McCain also implicitly criticized Mr. Obama in suggesting that his trip to Iraq -- the schedule for which remains undisclosed, partly for security reasons -- might be at hand.
 ''I am sure,'' Mr. McCain added, ''that Senator Obama is going to arrive in Baghdad in a much, much safer and secure environment than the one that he would have encountered before we started the surge.''
 The McCain campaign also infuriated the Obama camp with the new advertisement, which accused Mr. Obama of ''voting against funding our troops'' and said he was abandoning his original positions on the war ''to help himself become president.'' 
 Bill Burton, a spokesman for Mr. Obama, described the ad as ''patently misleading,'' and campaign officials issued a phrase-by-phrase rebuttal.
 Those salvos were preceded by an interview, published Friday in The Kansas City Star, in which Mr. McCain suggested that Mr. Obama might be a socialist. At a campaign event in Kansas City on Thursday, Mr. McCain accused Mr. Obama of having the ''most extreme'' voting record in the Senate. When The Star asked about the comment, he said Mr. Obama had taken positions ''more to the left than the announced socialist in the U.S. Senate, Bernie Sanders of Vermont.''
 The reporter then asked Mr. McCain if he thought Mr. Obama himself was a socialist. ''I don't know,'' Mr. McCain answered. ''All I know is his voting record, and that's what people usually judge their elected representatives by.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At a town-hall-style meeting Friday on energy, John McCain found himself questioned instead on his wartime positions.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Phil Gramm 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); IRAQ WAR (66%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (61%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (94%); PHIL GRAMM (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008



468 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1507 words

HEADLINE: A High-Seas Show With Gay Family Values

BYLINE: By ARIEL KAMINER

DATELINE: ABOARD THE NORWEGIAN DAWN 

 BODY:
If you've ever wondered what became of the belief in musical theater's power to transform lives, take note: for most of this week it could be found a few hundred nautical miles out of New York, chugging north on the way to Halifax, Nova Scotia. 
 The 2,300 passengers of this R Family Vacations charter were on board for an annual week of swimming, frolicking, eating and building their own social utopia -- one in which musical theater plays an essential role. Really.
 R Family Vacations is led by Rosie O'Donnell, the entertainer and talk-show host; Kelli O'Donnell, the pixieish entertainment executive who recently became her wife; and their business partner, Gregg Kaminsky, and caters to gay and lesbian families. But anyone who might have signed up looking for something sexy or even illicit -- for a Love That Dare Not Speak Its Name Boat -- well, that ship had left the harbor. Whatever their sexual orientation, this was an extremely straight bunch. 
 Wearing T-shirts and Crocs, straining at their waistbands and beginning to contemplate middle age, they might have passed for the guests on any other cruise. If, that is, they were not quite so wholesome, so relentlessly focused on being good parents and raising happy kids. At the dock, the ship seemed to serve as a kind of reverse quarantine, a metal container moored off 12th Avenue to prevent the passengers' expansive child-friendly values from wiping out New York's social ecology.
 Whether they had come for their own family or the ''We Are Family'' spirit of community, all the guests -- from the dual mommies to the leather daddies to the grandparents, siblings, cousins and kids they all had in tow -- were excited to cheer on the raft of song-and-dance shows that the week would offer.
 Among the more than 100 entertainers on board were celebrated performers like Christine Ebersole, Daphne Rubin-Vega, Andrea McArdle and Lillias White. In one configuration or another, this collection of Tony Award winners and marquee names would put on two shows every night, as well as make countless impromptu appearances at the piano bar, karaoke bar or salad bar. By the schlocky standards of much cruise-line entertainment, it was a floating Royal Shakespeare Company.
 To Ms. O'Donnell, putting on high-quality shows was a matter of basic justice. ''If you're given a crumb and told it's a meal, you'll believe it's a meal,'' she said. ''So often gay people are given a crumb. I didn't want anything that wasn't top of the line. I wanted a smorgasbord.'' And if there's one thing a cruise ship can provide, it's a smorgasbord.
 What it cannot provide, however, is top dollar. Now in its seventh year, the cruise, Ms. O'Donnell says, is far from making a profit. So the organizers look for entertainers who might want to come along for the ride.
 ''We're in international waters, so it's O.K. to say: we hire our friends,'' confessed Michael Lee, the venture's artistic director. It helps that he, the company's founders and Seth Rudetsky, the musical director, are all so well connected. But, as he took care to point out, in addition to being friends, the performers are all professionals. 
 This turns out to be a euphemism for ''people who can be pushed onstage with almost no rehearsal.''
 The first afternoon of the cruise, while everyone was still checking in, the cast and crew of the big opening-night revue were meeting for the first time. No one had yet completed a lineup, much less mastered the technicalities of the theater's equipment. Ms. McArdle and her 19-year-old daughter, Alexa Koloff, who were signed up for the cruise only a week before, hadn't even tried their duet more than twice. And then, with just hours to put it all together, they all had to stop for the ship's lifeboat drill. 
 The semimanic Mr. Rudetsky admitted he nearly had a meltdown. But when the curtain rose for the first of the evening's two shows, the audience at the Stardust Theater saw only glitzy showmanship.
 With the exception, that is, of Ms. O'Donnell herself, who in a floppy shirt and uneven leggings did a little soft shoe in the opening number. Wary of trying to teach her new steps, Mr. Lee had just spliced in some moves she already knew from another production. As an added precaution, he performed them right alongside her, gently applying a bit of what he refers to as ''elbow choreography.'' Meanwhile, she saved the audience the effort of mocking her performance and went on to remind them she'd recently been voted most annoying celebrity.
 Despite the chewing-gum-and-baling-wire spirit of it all, Mr. Lee -- who is so good at making something out of nothing that Ms. O'Donnell calls him MacGayver -- could only laugh. ''I'm dancing onstage with Rosie O'Donnell,'' he said just beforehand. ''She's not a dancer. That's funny already.'' 
 The schedule for the week's big finale was no more relaxed. For a while the plan had been to do ''Dreamgirls,'' so the organizers first focused on trying to cast black actors. Then a month or so ago they obtained the rights to ''Chicago'' and decided to stage that instead, in a nearly full-scale production. But up to the last week stars were still dropping out (like Joel Grey, who had a scheduling conflict) or signing on (like Carolee Carmello, who happened to bump into Mr. Rudetsky's partner at Starbucks).
 The plan was for one hour of vocal rehearsals, some time in the studio blocking out the basic shape of the show, a few takes on each scene and, if they were lucky, two full run-throughs. But every time anyone tried to schedule a rehearsal, the room turned out to be booked for some other event. And how do you reschedule a few dozen people on a ship where no one has cell reception and the passenger manifest is somehow unavailable? 
 Somehow or other, everyone gets into the spirit of it. ''No matter what diva gets on on Sunday, by Friday it's 'let me help you with that luggage.' '' Mr. Lee said. ''As performers we're so used to thinking, 'They're going to rip me to shreds.' But this is the only place where you feel they're not here to judge you -- because this is the place where they're not judged.''
 Mr. Rudetsky was more emphatic. ''It's the greatest entertainment in the world,'' he said. Add in the cruise's inclusive spirit, and, he said: ''It's like, what if the world were perfect? And the taste is just so amazing. In part because it's my taste.''
 Colin Sheehan experienced that inclusiveness firsthand when, as a 13-year-old in the audience of Ms. O'Donnell's talk show, he got up the nerve to sing a song that he had written about her. She invited him back to be a co-host of the show; now an extremely eager and frequently perspiring 23, he is the entertainment coordinator for the operation. To him, the cruise and the entertainment are about the same thing: bringing outsiders into the fold. ''We love that people in Iowa or Nebraska who don't get to see the A+ Broadway performers, they get to vacation with them for a week.'' 
 Eventually, all discussions of the role that musical theater plays in this come back around to Ms. O'Donnell. She is extremely accessible on the cruise, so low-key she sometimes looks as if she had just rolled out of bed. None of which diminishes the magical aura with which cruisegoers imbue her, running up to tell her about some experience they've had, to introduce their families, to pitch her on a project, as though she were a senator walking through a crowd of constituents. (She says she prefers the image of Mickey walking through Disneyland.)
 She may not have single-handedly saved Broadway, as folks on the ship like to say she did by featuring it on her talk show, but for one week at a stretch she does seem to have inspired an alternate universe of family values, where people fight for the chance to adopt children of all races and needs, where they stand in line to be bound by the vows of marriage (a nice Canadian souvenir), where lesbians in the karaoke bar un-self-consciously request Eminem songs, and where -- at the disco, late at night -- a brawny man who drops to the ground to feel for a missing tooth isn't the victim of a bar fight. He's a dad, and his daughter is waiting for a visit from the tooth fairy. 
 If the economics of the cruise business don't change, next year this social experiment will probably have to take place on dry land. But at Sheena Easton's late show one night, no one was worrying about the future. As she took the stage, vamping and bumping and camping it up, the 50-something camouflage-wearing lesbians and the 20-something gay men in expensive jeans and the two little girls dancing at the foot of the stage all seemed equally, ecstatically grateful. 
 How did the news that her baby takes the morning train validate the struggles of gay families? It was impossible to say, and yet somehow it all just worked. With the audience in a frenzy, she acknowledged their ovation and exhorted them to keep the party going into the wee hours. After all, she shouted, the ship had plenty of baby sitters.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 23, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about an R Family Vacations cruise for gay and lesbian families referred incorrectly to the marriage of the comedian Rosie O'Donnell and Kelli O'Donnell, a founder of the company. They were married in 2004, not ''recently.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rosie O'Donnell on this year's R Family Vacations cruise.
A cruise team member, Anne Steele, delivers a song.
 Daphne Rubin-Vega and the performers the Broadway Boys on the R Family Vacations musical-theater cruise to Nova Scotia. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRUCE GLIKAS/RFAMILYVACATIONS.COM)(PG. B13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); FAMILY (90%); THEATER (90%); FAMILY TRAVEL (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); CRUISES (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC (89%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008



469 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; PRESERVATION; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Last Train's Long Gone, But Station Will Return

BYLINE: By MICHAEL MALONE

DATELINE: YORKTOWN HEIGHTS 

 BODY:
 FIFTY years after commuters last waited in the Yorktown Heights station for their train, rail fans, history buffs and town officials are planning to restore the building and open it to the public. 
 The 420-square-foot Yorktown Heights Station Depot sits in the middle of Railroad Park, which is bisected by a bike path where the tracks of the New York Central Railroad's Putnam Division -- nicknamed the Old Put -- once lay. 
 Where some see a derelict depot, others see a jewel in need of some T.L.C. 
 ''This could be a magnet of tourism,'' said David Rocco, 51, a Yorktown Heights resident and retired New York City Housing Authority carpenter who is spearheading fund-raising for the project. ''Yorktown could be a dynamic place to go.'' 
 The train line's commuter service ceased on May 29, 1958. Ridership had been declining as a result of the automobile's rise in popularity and the emergence of the Hudson and Harlem lines, which, unlike the Old Put, took riders to Grand Central Terminal. 
 The 130-year-old Yorktown Heights station, a two-room frame structure with a steep slate roof, has been largely ignored since the railroad's demise. It was reopened briefly during the United States bicentennial in 1976, but was damaged by fire set by vandals in the 1980s. 
 The old depot looks a bit forlorn. While the exterior shows no structural damage, vandals have struck again, scrawling graffiti on the door and the image of a marijuana leaf along a wall. Weeds dot the base of the building, and rust lines a pipe along the roof. The interior features broken glass, a pervasive smell of must and a small army of flies. 
 The restoration, which is costing $600,000 to $700,000 and being handled by Walter Sedovic Architects, of Irvington, is slated for completion in late 2009 or early 2010. It calls for the depot to be returned as close to its original form as the available funds will allow. A gable, which had been removed, will be added, and the roof will be replaced. 
 ''It's a lot more than just a paint job,'' said Tom Travis, president of the Yorktown Historical Society, which is overseeing the project. 
 Financing is coming from private donations and government grants; the State Department of Transportation has put in almost $300,000, and a design report overseen by the town is under way. ''It's a real project now,'' said John Tegeder, the Yorktown director of planning. 
 The Friends of the Yorktown Depot envision a rest spot for cyclists, skaters and walkers along the rail trail, as the path is called, with concessions and educational material on display. Fronting the building is a brick courtyard, which Mr. Rocco says could host a farmers' market or concerts. 
 The project ''was infused with lots of energy,'' Mr. Tegeder said, when Mr. Rocco became involved. He had visited the station on May 29 on a tour of the Putnam line's stops, from the Bronx to Putnam County, led by Joe Schiavone, the author of ''The Old Put: The New York Central Putnam Division'' (Merit Printing, 2007). 
 Mr. Rocco, who grew up in Yonkers and Mount Vernon, is a veteran of public restoration projects. He played a pivotal role in getting the Walkway Over the Hudson project -- restoring the 120-year-old Poughkeepsie Highland Railroad Bridge as a public walkway -- off the ground after some 16 years. (It is scheduled to open to pedestrians in October 2009.) 
 Once the ball got rolling on the bridge restoration, Mr. Rocco started looking for a new project. After visiting the Yorktown depot, he volunteered to help see it through. Mr. Rocco said he is motivated by a love of railroads, history and Yorktown Heights, where he has lived since 1995. 
 ''The depot is a national landmark, and it should be preserved,'' he said. ''And it's right in my own backyard -- how could I not get involved?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: OVERSEER: David Rocco, a retired New York City Housing Authority carpenter, is spearheading the fund-raising. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN S. ORLING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VANDALISM (90%); HISTORY (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); CITIES (78%); TRAINS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CYCLING (76%); FUNDRAISING (74%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



470 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Futures Imperfect

BYLINE: By DWIGHT R. SANDERS and SCOTT H. IRWIN. 
Dwight R. Sanders is an associate professor of agribusiness economics at Southern Illinois University. Scott H. Irwin is a professor of agricultural and consumer economics at the University of Illinois.

 BODY:
AS costs for energy and food rise, the impact that speculators have on commodity prices is being debated by politicians and the public. The recent volatility in crude oil prices -- increasing to nearly $150 per barrel and then falling to below $130 -- has only heightened these concerns.
 It is commonly asserted that speculative buying in futures markets has created a ''bubble,'' in which market prices far exceed fundamental values. As a result, members of Congress are proposing to limit speculation in commodity futures markets by, among other things, requiring bigger margins (increasing the initial ''good faith'' deposits required to trade futures contracts). 
 The history of United States futures markets is riddled with confrontations between politicians and speculators. Just after World War II, soaring grain futures prices, especially for wheat, attracted political attention. President Harry Truman proclaimed that ''the cost of living in this country must not be a football to be kicked about by gamblers,'' and ordered the Commodity Exchange Authority (precursor to the federal body that oversees futures markets, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission) to require futures exchanges to raise margins on all speculative positions to the extraordinary level of 33 percent. In a statement hauntingly similar to those emanating from the halls of Congress today, Truman declared, ''If the grain exchanges refuse, the government may find it necessary to limit the amount of trading.''
 From 1972 to 1975, United States and international commodity markets experienced rapid price increases, setting records across a broad range of markets. The increases were widely attributed to speculators and the growing futures industry, and public and political pressure to curb speculation resulted in regulatory proposals and an increase in futures margin requirements. These changes were accompanied by even more drastic measures, like federal price controls and a prohibition of soybean exports, aimed at lowering commodity prices.
 The boldest move against commodity futures speculators came in 1958, when trade in onion futures was banned by Congress. The ban, which remains in place, was the result of the widespread belief that speculative activity created excessive price variation. Again, in language very similar to that heard today, a Congressional report stated that ''speculative activity in the futures markets causes such severe and unwarranted fluctuations in the price of cash onions as to require complete prohibition of onion futures trading in order to assure the orderly flow of onions in interstate commerce.''
 Efforts to rein in supposedly damaging speculation have run the gamut from requiring futures exchanges to raise margins to an outright ban on trading. But there is no historical evidence that politically inspired increases in futures margins -- or other attempts to limit futures trade -- have been effective at lowering overall prices. The only consistently documented impact of higher margin requirements has been a decline in futures trading volume. 
 Current legislative proposals might similarly curtail speculation by reducing the volume of trade, but it is unlikely that they would cure the ''problem'' of high prices. The measures, however, are likely to hurt the ability of futures markets to accommodate businesses that need to manage price risks. For instance, a gold-mining company that wants to lock in a price for next year's production relies on speculative buying to take the other side of the trade when they sell futures contracts.
 The statistics floated in the news media and at Congressional hearings tend to view speculation in a vacuum, focusing on absolute position size and activity. Every futures trade entails two parties: a buyer and a seller. An objective analysis of futures market activity must consider the balance between speculators and commodity firms hedging market risks. It's important to ask, ''Who is doing all of the selling?''
 According to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, from January 2006 to last month, speculative buying in soybeans, including by the commodity index funds that are often cited as culprits for the higher prices, increased by almost 150,000 contracts; but selling by commodity firms involved in the production and processing of soybeans increased by an even greater amount -- nearly 180,000 contracts. The speculative buying in soybean futures is far from excessive; in fact, it doesn't even ''balance'' the selling done by commodity firms.
 Based on such data, it seems unlikely that speculators are dominating commodity futures markets. If speculation is driving prices above fundamental economic values, it is not obvious in the level of speculation relative to hedging. And there are additional reasons to doubt that speculation has led to bubbles in commodity futures prices. 
 First, recent price increases do not neatly fit a bubble explanation. For example, livestock and meat futures markets did not experience price increases until recently, yet the concentration of speculative buying has been among the highest in these markets for some time. It is difficult to see why speculative buying would have an impact on some markets and not on others. 
 Second, there are very high prices for commodities without futures markets, like edible beans, and in futures markets that are not included in popular commodity index funds, like rice.
 Third, commodity inventories should build when a bubble is present, when in fact inventories for most commodities have remained stable or fallen sharply over the last two years.
 Over all, there is limited evidence that anything other than economic fundamentals is driving the recent run-up in commodity prices. The main driving factors in the energy markets include strong demand from China, India and other developing nations, a lack of growth in crude oil production and United States monetary policy. In the grain markets, driving factors are, in addition to monetary policy and demand from developing nations, the diversion of row crops to biofuel production and unfavorable weather that has hurt harvests. 
 The complex interplay of these factors and how they affect commodity prices is often difficult to grasp immediately, and speculators are a convenient scapegoat for the public's frustration with rising prices. That's unfortunate because curbing speculation -- and hobbling the ability of businesses that rely on futures markets to reduce their risk -- is counterproductive. 
 Regulation of commodity futures markets is at an important crossroads. Have we learned from our mistakes, or will we repeat them?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUTURES (97%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); POLITICS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); WORLD WAR II (68%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%)

COMPANY: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



471 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; STREETSCAPES EXCHANGE PLACE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: A Early Tower That Aspired to Greatness

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY. 
E-mail: streetscapes@nytimes.com

 BODY:
FIFTY-NINE stories does not seem like much now, but when planned in 1929, the City Bank-Farmers Trust Building was to be the tallest skyscraper in the world after the Empire State Building. With its sheer limestone facade, haunting sculptural treatment and rich marble halls, the building -- which is being converted to residential use -- is a surprising find on its cramped, odd-shaped block at Exchange Place, at the conjunction of Beaver, Hanover and William Streets. 
 In 1929, the financial district was booming. The architects Cross & Cross were at work on a 50-story office building for Continental Bank at Broad Street and Exchange Place, which ultimately wasn't built. 
 Then the National City Bank of New York merged with the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, and entered the skyscraper sweepstakes. When their architects, also Cross & Cross, filed plans at the Bureau of Buildings on Oct. 2, The New York Times described the new structure, at 71 stories and 846 feet, as the highest ever officially proposed. 
 The design for the City Bank-Farmers Trust tower called for an illuminated globe on top, but the stock market crash a few weeks after filing brought the project up short, and it was reduced to 59 stories. 
 Research by the Landmarks Preservation Commission gives the height as 685 feet, although just before completion The Times reported it as 750 feet. A partial set of engineering drawings from 1930 by the firm of Purdy & Henderson shows the 54th floor -- several levels below the roof -- as 670 feet high. 
 The exact height of the building remains unclear. But it is safe to say that, when completed, it trailed the Empire State Building (1,250 feet), the Chrysler Building (1,046 feet) and the Bank of the Manhattan (927 feet).
 In August 1930, The Times reported that Gilbert Nicoll, a 20-year-old messenger, was near death after being hit by an iron bolt dropped from the 57th floor. He had been unemployed for months, according to the article, and the accident happened on his first day as a bank messenger.
 The building was completed the next year. The outside is plain, even ho-hum, except for 14 moody hooded figures at the 19th floor. The magazine Through the Ages said in 1931 that they represented ''giants of finance, seven smiling, seven scowling.'' Figures of coins on the ground floor represented countries in which the bank had its main branches. The Times called the building ''conservative modern.'' 
 According to a 1931 article in Architecture and Building, the two lavish lobbies were fashioned from 45 different kinds of marble, quarried in Germany, Italy, Czechoslovakia, France, Spain, Belgium and elsewhere. 
 The brothers Eliot and John Walter Cross formed a talented and versatile partnership. Well born, well educated and socially connected, they did in-town mansions and country estates, banks and garages, lofts and skyscrapers -- like the 1931 General Electric building at 51st Street and Lexington Avenue, with its Art Deco radio-wave imagery.
 The architects' niece Sarnia Marquand told a reporter in a 1980 interview that John Cross was the designer in the firm and Eliot handled the business side. Their most recognizable design is probably the sumptuously plain Tiffany & Company store at 57th Street and Fifth Avenue, which dates to 1940. 
 According to the 1996 Landmark designation report, City Bank-Farmers Trust went through several changes, evolving into First National City Bank, and then, in 1976, Citibank. Its move out of the skyscraper happened in stages, the last one in 1989. 
 The tower is easy to see from a distance but hard to find on the ground in the maze of irregular downtown streets. The City Bank-Farmers Trust banking hall runs along William Street. It is a high, columned space in English oak with polished marble and nickel trim, all handled in the Art Deco classicism that had become a safe alternative to radical European modernism. 
 At Exchange and William, the main entrance to the banking hall is a high rotunda, flush with varying marbles, the most striking a golden travertine from Czechoslovakia, quite different from the pallid ivory-colored stone popular in the 1960s. From the tower there are wide views to the harbor and around to old skyscrapers on the land side. 
 Today, a real estate firm, Metro Loft Management, is renovating the tower for rental apartments, and has 350 units ready on the floors from 16 to the top.
 A second phase, lower down, will involve office tenants; the company that takes the high banking hall will have a most spectacular retail space. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SURPRISING FIND: The City Bank-Farmers Trust building, at left and above in 1931, has a plain facade except for 14 hooded figures at the 19th floor. The building's two lavish lobbies were fashioned from 45 different kinds of marble. Today, the tower is being renovated for rental apartments and retail space. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARCHITECTURAL FORUM/LIBRARY OF CONGRESS)
 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ENGINEERING (78%); AGRICULTURAL LENDING (73%); SWEEPSTAKES (68%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (51%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL CITY CORP (56%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (75%); GERMANY (69%); BELGIUM (56%); CENTRAL EUROPE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



472 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1549 words

HEADLINE: Conservative Thinkers Think Again

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
ALMOST anything can happen in an election year, but among conservatives, almost everyone seems to agree that no matter who captures the White House in November, the movement that has ruled the Republican Party since the 1960s and mostly dominated American politics since 1980 has lost its way. Across the spectrum of the right, writers and thinkers have turned their relentless analysis inward, a kind of political EST seminar aimed at self-transformation.
 Consider the case of the American Enterprise Institute, which last week announced that Arthur C. Brooks, a business and government professor (currently teaching at Syracuse University), would succeed its president, Christopher DeMuth, who is stepping down after 22 years. Under Mr. DeMuth, A.E.I. became the most influential of Washington think tanks during the Bush years. Its wood-paneled offices on 17th Street -- in the same building that houses The Weekly Standard -- attracted former administration officials like Paul D. Wolfowitz, John Bolton and David Frum, not to mention advisers and allies like Richard Perle (one of the most conspicuous supporters of the Iraq war) and Fred Kagan (who helped develop the strategy to deal with problems that war caused). 
 Today, all of these policy cooks -- as well as others who sit in nearby offices -- are pushing wildly different ideas about which direction the party should take. A.E.I., like so many other bastions of the intellectual right, has returned to the kitchen to whip up a fresh menu of possibilities for disaffected conservatives looking for solutions to emerging problems like energy, the environment and immigration, as well as a way to comfortably fit these new ideas into a conservative ideological framework.
 ''We've been extremely discouraged by the policy trajectory of the Bush administration, with big increases in unfunded entitlements, big increases in deficit spending, considerable growth in government regulation,'' said Mr. DeMuth. Other conservatives point to the failure to deal with Hurricane Katrina and a foreign policy that includes the mismanaged war in Iraq. They are familiar criticisms. But what's new is the acknowledgment that these were not simply one administration's missteps, but evidence of deeper rot. As Mr. DeMuth put it, ''Some rethinking has to be done on the deep philosophical questions.''
 ''Now there's the sense that the Republican Party is clearly on the defensive, and potentially heading for a disastrous election,'' said Norman Ornstein, a longtime scholar at A.E.I. who specializes in legislative issues. ''Even if John McCain wins, it's not at all clear what that means in terms of ideas that conservatives have promoted. There is a division on what role we play in the world, what a smaller government means.''
 For some on the right, the conservative decline is simply the result of veering away from the golden age of Ronald Reagan. Jonathan Rauch, a writer and a guest scholar at another Washington research organization, the Brookings Institution, said that many conservatives still believe that ''Reagan got it right and the party has strayed too far.'' He noted that the Heritage Foundation runs a feature on its Web site titled ''What Would Reagan Do?''
 For others, however, the nub of the problem is not deviance from the 1980s agenda but worshipful adherence to it. Mr. Frum is one of those who has undergone a conversion (or two). His book ''Dead Right,'' published in 1994, was a brisk catalog of Reagan's failures (especially his failure to reduce the size of government). Then, after writing speeches for President Bush, Mr. Frum wrote ''The Right Man,'' in which he characterized President Bush's leadership as ''nothing short of superb.'' But in his newest book, ''Comeback: Conservatism That Can Win Again,'' Mr. Frum confesses that his former boss has ''led his party to the brink of disaster.'' 
 Mr. Frum's transformation has caused him to rethink the role of government. Not only does he now promote an idea that has long been conservative heresy -- that tax rates have gone as low as they can -- he also calls for new taxes on consumption and energy. Taxing ''those forms of energy that present political and environmental risks,'' he writes, ''would look exactly like the carbon tax advocated by global-warming crusaders.''
 Mr. Frum also departs from the smaller-government-is-always-better-government dogma and concedes that there are some areas where government has to step in -- for instance, prison reform. His list here includes ''opportunities for education and self-improvement; conjugal visits; mentoring and support for prisoners' children.''
 Many of Mr. Frum's allies in this debate come from a group of younger conservatives who were born more than 15 years after he was and came of age after Reagan. ''The world is different, the priorities are different,'' said Yuval Levin, 31, who is at the Ethics and Public Policy Center and recently edited a book with Mr. DeMuth. ''In 1985, the big issues were the cold war, crime, welfare reform, taxes and social issues. Now, most of those are no longer on the list.''
 Social issues are still a priority, he said, but they are joined by others that have floated to the top of the agenda, including energy, the environment, immigration, health care and expensive entitlements. Mr. Brooks, 44, the author of books on happiness and charitable giving, named some of those issues, as well as poverty and transportation, as ones that he would like to pay more attention to when he steps in as A.E.I.'s president in January.
 Another new-generation conservative, Ross Douthat, argues that ''Reagan was right for his time, but now it's a different time.'' Mr. Douthat, 28, and Reihan Salam are the authors of a new book, ''The Grand New Party: How Republicans Can Win the Working Class and Save the American Dream.'' Mr. Douthat says that social conservatives have gotten stuck and need to move beyond their focus on gay marriage and abortion -- a focus, he said, that does nothing to help a single African-American mother trying to raise a family. Instead, conservatives need to ''figure out a way to talk about the problem of family breakdown and the extent to which that's linked to social mobility, economic troubles.''
 In his eyes, while the network of research groups and journals helped build conservatism, it has also contributed to its stagnation. ''Conservatives have always criticized the liberal establishment'' -- universities, magazines, organizations -- for a ''tendency toward cocooning,'' Mr. Douthat said. Now, it is conservatives who are cocooning, talking only to each other and not looking around for new ideas.
 ''There was this tremendous generation of intellectuals who came of age in the '70s and '80s, but I think there's been some difficulty in establishing a new generation,'' Mr. Douthat said. ''On the right, a lot of them did their best work 20 years ago.'' 
 Election day would seem to be the pivotal moment in this debate. Adam Bellow, a conservative book editor, recently argued that ''the G.O.P. will not be revived through the efforts of intellectuals but by a talented politician who can build a new majority coalition. When that happens, as eventually it will, the intellectuals will be there to translate his or her political instincts into a new conservative ideology.'' But as Ramesh Ponnuru, a senior editor at National Review, long a flagship of the right, said: ''Whether or not McCain wins, there is going to be a lot of rethinking among conservatives.''
 Kevin Hassett, an economist at A.E.I. who is advising Senator McCain, went out of his way to emphasize his own lack of partisanship. ''I'm thrilled that John McCain has proposed a big reduction in the corporate tax rate,'' he said, but he added that similar ideas have also been adopted by Democrats, including Senator John Kerry during his 2004 presidential run. ''If we do our job really, really well, then we don't help one political side or the other,'' Mr. Hassett said.
 Meanwhile, Megan McArdle, a libertarian writer, thinks conservative organizations will actually have a tougher time influencing policy if Senator McCain is elected. ''He doesn't have an ideological framework,'' she said. ''He has a superhero view of politics. There are good guys and bad guys and you've got to elect the good guys to kick the butts of the bad guys.''
 With Mr. Bush, she said, conservative intellectuals knew what to expect. He was reliable, even if that meant ''in some ways reliably bad.'' By contrast, ''McCain is not exactly beloved by the think tank world because he's a loose cannon.''
 Indeed, to Ms. McArdle, the possibility of a Republican defeat holds a certain romantic appeal. ''Younger people are kind of excited about being in the wilderness,'' she said, evoking the pre-Reagan years when Republican thinkers plotted their revolution at nonprofit organizations and in bars instead of in the Executive Office Building and congressional majority offices. The longer you're in power, the more you want to preserve it. ''That's where the Republicans are right now, and it's demoralizing for think tankers.'' Desperation has a way of focusing the mind. As Ms. McArdle said, ''When they're out of power, they have to think in a clearer way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); IRAQ WAR (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); IMMIGRATION (64%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (57%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



473 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''I think we can really do this.''
 Scott M. Stringer, the Manhattan borough president, on the idea of building a high-rise farm in the big city. 
 ''There's not enough lipstick to put on this pig.''
 Richard Moody, an economist at the real estate firm Mission Residential, on new data showing that Americans are being forced to pay significantly higher prices as the job market weakens.
 ''My hope is that people take a deep breath tand realize that their deposits are protected by our government.''
 President Bush, after concerns deepened over the economy and some depositors pulled their money out of regional banks, which reported losses.
 ''This is the new Wall Street-- it's the center of gravity.''
 Fares Noujaim, president of Merrill Lynch's business in the Middle East and North Africa, on Dubai, which has become a magnet for foreign investment.
 ''We were betrayed.''
 Dave Liszewski, a third-shift worker at Anheuser-Bush in St. Louis, which agreed to be bought by the Belgian beer giant InBev.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (70%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (51%); BEER & ALE (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (55%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV NV/SA (55%)

TICKER: BUD (NYSE) (55%); ABI (BRU) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (55%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (55%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (78%); NORTHERN AFRICA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



474 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1956 words

HEADLINE: Lights! Camera! Ka-Ching!

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
NEW YORKERS love to complain about television or film crews that descend on their neighborhoods, gobbling up parking spaces, crowding the sidewalks and generally disrupting daily life.
 But some people aren't complaining. They are the ones who are renting their apartments and houses to those crews, and making $500 to $10,000 a day, depending on the size and duration of a production.
 Spider-Man can't swing down the side of a Manhattan building without some cash changing hands, and, of course, Sean Combs rented the TriBeCa loft for the contestants on his upcoming VH1 reality show about choosing an assistant. The British Broadcasting Corporation has paid to use a stately Harlem town house for filming documentaries.
 These are just a few of the productions that have recently rented private homes in New York City for as little as a day or as long as several months to turn the spaces into television or film sets. 
 Real estate agents said homes that have appeared on television or in the movies can certainly use that history as a marketing tool when it comes time to sell. Some buyers might easily be drawn to a house that was Uma Thurman's childhood home in ''My Super Ex-Girlfriend'' or to downtown Brooklyn's Belltel lofts because it will play host to MTV's ''The Real World Brooklyn.'' 
 The movie and television production industry is big business in New York City, generating about $5 billion in the local economy each year, according to the Mayor's Office of Film, Theater and Broadcasting. 
 City officials estimate that on any given day, there are as many as 70 film crews working on public property, and most of those crews also need to use private spaces. In addition to television shows and film, New York City apartments are also backdrops for commercials and magazine advertisements.
 But homeowners who have watched as their dining room was set afire or had a front parlor turned into an outdoor garden warn that while the money may be good, having 50 or more people come into a home to create an alternate reality can be quite unsettling. 
 ''You definitely have to get your nervous system ready for it,'' said Susan Cleary, who owns a 10-bedroom house in Ditmas Park, Brooklyn, that last year earned $30,000 in fees and can be currently seen in Angelina Jolie's new movie, ''Wanted.''
 Ms. Cleary said she was a little unnerved when she learned that for a Thanksgiving dinner scene, a character would be set on fire in her dining room. Special effects and flares were used and the walls were protected, but the ceiling was still singed. It was promptly repainted, she said, but having something like that happen inside your home ''is not for the faint of heart.''
 Real estate brokers and agents at location companies also stress that while the money can be good, it's hardly a sure thing. ''I often mention to people when they're about to begin down this road that if they're looking for steady income, then this is not the route to take,'' said Laura Wagner, who handles film locations for Sotheby's International Realty.
 But most homeowners who volunteer their homes as television or film sets are not in it just for the money. ''They do it because there's a certain level of excitement surrounding film,'' she said ''They do it for the prestige, the cachet.''
 Residents at 17 John Street didn't have a choice when crews from ''Spider-Man 2'' arrived in 2004 because the building's owner had negotiated a $75,000 deal to rent the roof and other space in the building to the film for nearly three weeks. But they nonetheless seemed thrilled, said Jack Berman, a vice president of Metro Loft Management, which owns and manages the building. 
 When the crews were on the roof deck, he said, ''every tenant who was up there would pick up their cellphone and call friends to say, 'You won't believe this, but Spider-Man is on my roof.' It was almost an amenity.''
 Brokers also say that the potential for income from a property that has already proved to be popular with location scouts can be a real plus, especially if buyers are interested in keeping the home in the film business. 
 For example, Dr. Gregory Harmon responded to a flier slipped under his door seeking an apartment with Central Park views. His apartment and roof terrace became famous in the mid-1990s as Mariel Hemingway's home in the prime-time soap opera ''Central Park West.''
 Many more television and film crews have since gone through his penthouse apartment, and he now recognizes that because he was a novice back then, ''Central Park West'' probably paid him only about half what the space was worth. ''But it wasn't about the money; it was just something fun for me to do,'' he said. He wound up as an extra on several episodes, and friends would come over to watch the filming. 
 Dr. Harmon would not say how much he made then or for subsequent productions, but he now uses the services of Barbara Wilson, an agent with Halstead Property. She helps him set parameters for a shoot, like hours, the number of crew members and off-limits areas. She also helps negotiate the price -- higher on shooting days and less for prep days and wrap days when the crews are smaller. 
 ''It's a contract that has to be spelled out as much as possible,'' she said. In addition to negotiating how much Dr. Harmon is paid, Ms. Wilson will negotiate a fee for the co-op itself -- a necessity because most film crews need to use elevators and other common space.
 The most popular types of homes for big- and small-screen productions tend to be lofts or apartments big enough to accommodate the cumbersome equipment, and town houses and houses because they do not require the approval of a co-op or condominium board. Agents and location specialists say that apartments with outdoor space and ones with iconic New York City views are in high demand. Easy access in an apartment building is a plus, especially if crews can use a freight elevator to avoid disturbing neighbors.
 ''The simpler the decoration is or the simpler the layout is, the better,'' said Wendy Gordon, the owner of AKA Locations, a company that keeps a library of available homes and works closely with location scouts. While some productions might want a space that screams out, 'This is New York,' others might want space that could be anywhere, she said. 
 Bathrooms and kitchens big enough to have an actor or two plus a camera crew -- a rarity in New York City -- are always in demand.
 When Raffaello VanCouten, a partner in a fledgling company called A Cocktail Napkin Production, was at the party of a friend of a friend last year, he got up the courage to ask the hostess on his way out whether she would consider renting out her kitchen for a TV pilot.
 The homeowner, Emma Kerins, a Halstead agent, said she was taken by surprise but nonetheless agreed. ''I felt proud that they wanted to use our kitchen on TV,'' she said. ''Plus, I knew they weren't going to be shooting a Will Smith movie. It was just going to be two guys cooking in a kitchen.''
 Mr. VanCouten and his business partner, Kevin Swan, two servers at the Blue Water Grill in Union Square, had already tried filming the pilot in Mr. Swan's kitchen, but it was too small. The show depicts two friends cooking together. One, Mr. Swan, is a relative novice, and the other is an established chef, Cliff Crooks, the executive sous-chef at Blue Water Grill and a contestant on the second season of ''Top Chef.''
 Operating on a shoestring, the team paid Ms. Kerins and her husband, Michael, $500 for a day that ran from 4 p.m. until about 2 a.m. Mr. Swan said that renting a professional studiowith a kitchen would have cost them as much as $10,000 for a day. ''Even if we had the money for that, it might not have worked as well,'' he said, because the Kerinses' kitchen ''is beautiful, and we didn't have to create a look and feel from scratch.'' They hope to sell the idea to a network like Bravo.
 The fee that the Kerinses received was on par with those for many small operations. Bigger production companies generally pay at least $2,000 a day. But bigger productions usually mean much more chaos. 
 Sandy Wagner and Marsha Torn, who share a 19th-century town house filled with period details on Strivers' Row in Harlem, have rented it out to a range of productions. Some have used the home essentially as it is, and others have moved all the furniture into a parked truck while they redecorated the space.
 ''The more people you have, the more things get broken,'' said Ms. Torn, adding that she and Ms. Wagner always make sure that someone stays home for every shoot. ''It's not just to protect your stuff,'' she said. ''But if there's nobody to tell them where the electrical box is if they blow a fuse, they'll have to go rooting around to find it. I'd rather be here to show them where it is.''
 Ms. Wagner said the worst damage their home had suffered in the last five years was a broken window and a bent deadbolt lock. ''For the most part,'' she said, ''crews are very nice and polite, and they try to take care of your stuff.'' 
 Some of their memorable guests include an Italian magazine that used their back alley for a fashion shoot; Denis Leary, who turned their master bathroom into a rubber room for a Comedy Central Christmas special; and several BBC crews filming documentaries. For those, the BBC interviewed several people in different parts of the home.
 ''And we had a PoliGrip commercial shot in the kitchen once,'' Ms. Wagner recalled. ''That wasn't as interesting, but I did get a case of PoliGrip out of it,'' which she thought would come in handy until she realized that her father doesn't have dentures after all.
 Not everyone who gets involved in a production decides it's worth doing again. ''There are all kinds of headaches involved with it,'' said Charles Hawkins, a Halstead agent who helped negotiate the deal that put the contestants for Sean Combs's reality show into a TriBeCa loft last spring.
 The production initially offered Mr. Hawkins's client, the sponsor of the recently converted loft building, $100,000 for two months' use, but Mr. Hawkins negotiated substantially more, including a payment into the condo's reserve fund. ''I present all offers to my clients,'' he said, ''but I would discourage anybody from doing this because a production company with 50 or 60 people at a time means a lot of traffic.'' 
 The sponsor is happy enough because the loft was vacant and the show painted and finished the space to turn it into a dormitory for its contestants. But Mr. Hawkins also wound up mediating for some of the neighbors, who didn't fare as well, including a downstairs neighbor whose ceiling developed a hairline crack when the crew dropped a piece of equipment on the floor above.
 Sam Hoffman, a neighbor who is also a freelance line producer for movies, stepped in early to negotiate some changes that helped keep things more civil for the other building residents. 
 Mr. Hoffman, who lives on the same floor as the VH1 apartment, said that most of his concerns emanated from the prep days, when dozens of workers would arrive at all hours and on weekends to get the loft ready. Paradoxically, he said, ''once they were shooting, that's when our interest was piqued and then we didn't see a thing.''
 As a final word of caution, Ms. Gordon of AKA Locations said that homeowners often come to the business a bit starry-eyed and that she often tries to lift that veil of fantasy a bit. 
 ''They need to be prepared to be invaded and not expect to make too much money,'' she said. ''And once you sign on for it, you have to let go and let it happen, because once you let them into your house, they're not leaving until they're finished.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CUE THE COOKS: Michael and Emma Kerins, above right, were surprised but delighted when they were asked to rent out their kitchen for the pilot of a cooking show, above. The creators of the show hope to sell it to a network.
CUE THE CAUTIONARY TALES: Marsha Torn, above, has rented her Harlem town house to film crews, and has wise words for others who might also want to do so. A character in the movie ''Wanted'' was set on fire in a dining room, below, in Brooklyn.(PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES, ABOVE
ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES, BELOW)
 CUE THE CONTESTANTS: The TriBeCa loft rented for a VH1 reality show.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. RE10) CHART: How to Get Started: MOVIE and television directors frequently use private homes in their productions, but they can be very particular about the properties they pick. Here are a few things you can do to increase the chances of getting your home a close-up on the big or small screen. List your home with a real estate agent who specializes in film locations or with a location company that maintains a library of property listings. They work closely with location scouts and will work as a broker for your property. Keep an eye out for fliers posted around your neighborhood seeking specific types of properties. Location scouts still use this method to find homes. For information on how to make your home a star, visit the Web site for the Mayor's Office of Film, Theater & Broadcasting: home.nyc.gov /html/film/html/locations /homestar00.shtml. (pg. RE10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MOVIE FILMING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); CITIES (74%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); MAYORS (69%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (67%); THEATER (58%); THANKSGIVING (50%)

COMPANY: BRITISH BROADCASTING CORP (70%)

PERSON: ANGELINA JOLIE (58%); SEAN (DIDDY) COMBS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



475 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: Means Testing, for Medicare

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
 RIGHT now, the United States is in the midst of a financial crisis, but even more pressing problems may lie ahead -- and the presidential candidates aren't addressing them. 
 No matter who sits in the Oval Office next year, there won't be many degrees of freedom in the federal budget. That's because spending on entitlement programs is largely locked into place, and the situation will become much worse as Americans age and health care costs rise. Even if the government is conservative in its spending, just paying out promised benefits implies that tax rates will rise to a crushing level -- a range of 60 to 80 percent of income -- well before the end of this century. 
 The main problem is Medicare, which reimburses the elderly for many of their health care expenses. As Mark V. Pauly, professor of health care systems at the University of Pennsylvania, has said, ''Medicare as we know it today cannot be sustained over the next 50 years and probably will run into financial difficulties within the next 15.'' 
 There's one important idea lurking in the shadows that neither campaign is keen to talk about: paying out government benefits more efficiently. To put it bluntly, it means paying out full benefits only to those who really need them, and cutting back on payments to everybody else. Most recently, this notion has been proposed by Peter H. Schuck, a Yale law professor, and Richard J. Zeckhauser, a Harvard political economy professor, in their book, ''Targeting in Social Programs: Avoiding Bad Bets, Removing Bad Apples.'' 
 ''Means testing'' -- cutting back on payments to the relatively wealthy -- is one way to better allocate benefits. For health care costs, this could be done by expanding Medicaid, which is focused on the needs of the poor, and making it an entirely federal program rather than one partly paid for by the states. At the same time, the government would need to limit the growth of Medicare, which is universally applied to all elderly people; as a segment of American society, the elderly are relatively wealthy. With limited resources, it would be better to reallocate health care subsidies toward the poor, whether they are young or old.
 Furthermore, inducing the wealthy to pay for their own health coverage would create pressures to lower costs. 
 An alternative path is to put in place more means testing throughout Medicare. For instance, higher-income older Americans have already been paying larger Medicare premiums and receiving a lower prescription drug benefit; that's part of what made it possible to expand the prescription benefit within budgetary constraints.
 This could be taken much further. Of course, the idea of cutting some government transfers provokes protest in some quarters. One major criticism is that programs for the poor alone will not be well financed because poor people don't have much political power. Thus, this idea goes, we should try to make transfer programs as comprehensive as possible, so that every voter has a stake in the program and will support more spending.
 But even if this argument holds true now, it may not be very persuasive when Medicare costs start to push taxation levels above 50 percent. A more modest program, more directly aimed at those who need it, might prove more sustainable in the longer run. 
 Americans have supported the growth of many programs aimed mainly at the poor. Both Medicaid and the Earned Income Tax Credit have grown rapidly in size since their inception. The idea of helping the poor -- and not having the government take over entire economic sectors -- was the original motive behind welfare programs, in any case.
 Furthermore, the argument for comprehensive and universal transfer programs does not meet the ideal of democratic transparency. If taking care of the poor is the real value in welfare programs, those programs should be sold as such to the electorate. We shouldn't give wealthier people benefits just to ''trick'' them, for selfish reasons, into voting for greater benefits for everyone, the poor included. 
 Targeted social benefits have been used successfully around the world. Mostly for fiscal reasons, Finland, Sweden, Britain and Australia all have moved toward a greater use of targeted benefits for those who need them. Typically in these countries, higher earners receive lower pension benefits -- and that helps to maintain strong and robust welfare states. 
 The biggest problem with such efforts is measuring and enforcing the rules that establish who receives a specified benefit and who doesn't. Means testing in Medicaid causes many people to hide income and assets or to transfer assets to family members, so they can look poorer and still get benefits. This is a real problem, but the fiscal difficulties of staying on our current spending path may well be far worse.
 Advocates of health care reform tend to be long on ideas for expanding care and access, but short on practical solutions for cost control. The argument is often made that single-payer health care systems in Canada or Europe are cheaper than health care in the United States. But Medicare is already a single-payer plan, yet its costs are unsustainable.
 The best option is probably to tie the size of Medicare benefits to a person's lifetime income, which is relatively easily measured and hard to game, rather than to one's income or assets in any current year. In essence, higher earners would receive lower benefits instead of facing the prospect of higher taxes, as current trends predict. This policy reflects an ethic of individual responsibility -- namely, that people who have earned well throughout their lives should be expected to take care of themselves, precisely so that the truly unfortunate can be helped.
 Coverage gaps will remain. What if you lose or squander all your savings, for example, just before you retire? But the real question concerns the opportunity cost of the money we are using to subsidize the health care of high lifetime earners. Given the number of problems in the United States today, it's hard to believe that this is the best use for the money.
 Don't expect to hear much about targeted benefits anytime before November. Such proposals would acknowledge the painful but probably realistic notion that we don't have many good ways to control health care costs.
 Furthermore, balancing the budget is a popular goal, while cutting benefits is not. But if you're asking which ideas are most likely to transform economic policy over the next 15 to 20 years, here is one place to start looking. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); AGING (88%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (75%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (74%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%); MEDICAID (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



476 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2275 words

HEADLINE: The Long Amen

BYLINE: By KATHERINE BINDLEY

 BODY:
THE REV. DON OLINGER was supposed to have delivered his last sermon months ago. By now, the bulldozers were supposed to have come through and leveled the Presbyterian Church of Astoria, an 86-year-old gray stone building that sits on a tree-lined residential street in that Queens community. Instead, Mr. Olinger has been preaching before members of the congregation every Sunday, just as he has been doing for 14 years. Only next Sunday will he deliver his final sermon in the church, after which the building will be closed permanently, in preparation for its demolition.
 Mr. Olinger has continued preaching because, along with what remained of his dwindling congregation, he was waiting for resolution to the long tug of war over the future of the church building, which is to make way for housing for the elderly. An area within the housing development is to be set aside for services and other church activities.
 The church sits in a neighborhood that has boomed in recent years. Apartments in the area's mostly low-rise brick buildings are more affordable than many in Brooklyn, outdoor cafes line the sidewalks, and Midtown Manhattan is only 15 minutes away by subway. With land at a premium, the 175-foot strip along 33rd Street, near Broadway, where the church is located, along with its gym and pastor's residence, was precious turf. 
 Astoria Presbyterian's history dates to 1846. The current building, a huge Colonial Revival structure, was built in 1922, and behind four columns and three sets of double wooden doors sits a two-level sanctuary that can hold up to 500 people. But the congregation, which during the peak years of the 1950s had more than 1,200 worshipers, has shrunk in recent years to fewer than two dozen active churchgoers. With the decline, the church has struggled to support its buildings, and, especially, to cope with rising utility bills. The church also needed major repairs, including updated wiring and new heating and plumbing systems.
 Like many dying urban congregations, Astoria Presbyterian faced decisions about whether to lease or sell its valuable land, decisions that led to a bitter debate that has pitted congregants against their minister and one another. 
 This sort of debate is becoming common in historical New York churches. Increasingly, churches are selling their land for development, sometimes in collaboration with nonprofit groups that are pursuing social justice missions and other times to private developers eager to build condominiums. 
 ''I like to say I made a wrong turn on I-95 somewhere,'' Mr. Olinger, dressed casually in shorts and sneakers, said one afternoon in his parsonage. That may be the easiest way for him to explain how a 56-year-old man from Virginia with a persistent Southern drawl ended up at the center of a controversy in a New York neighborhood 450 miles from his birthplace.
 A Multicultural Microcosm
 Although Astoria Presbyterian's congregation has shrunk, it is deeply multicultural; its members come from at least eight countries, including Portugal, India and Japan. In this respect, the church is a microcosm of its community, long a Greek stronghold but now one of the borough's most ethnically diverse neighborhoods.
 Typical among the congregants are Arnold Baboolal, 38, who is from Trinidad, and his wife, Dolly, 31, who is from Guyana. Every Sunday for the past five years, the couple have been attending church with their two children. At a Sunday service shortly before Easter, their 2-year-old daughter, Victoria, was attired in pink from head to toe, save for her purple pacifier. No one seemed bothered by the fact that she roamed around the church during the service and occasionally crept behind the piano to hit the keys. 
 Although the pastor is legally blind, the result of a degenerative disease called Stargardt's that began taking his vision when he was 38, he has enough residual vision to recognize most of his congregants and greet them by name. 
 That Sunday, Mr. Olinger had asked the younger parishioners to sit in the first pew for the children's sermon. Lowering his voice almost to a whisper, he talked about why good things and bad things sometimes happen at the same time. For example, he said, Danielle Rhodes, the music director, was leaving for six weeks to perform in Philadelphia. It was sad that she was leaving, he told the children, but people were happy because the opportunity was a good one for her. 
 Nine little heads nodded as Ms. Rhodes took the microphone and with tears in her eyes sang her last song. 
 A Congregation Divided
 If Astoria Presbyterian seems peaceful these days, that is because most of the 22 people who opposed its forthcoming demolition no longer attend services. They made up nearly half of the congregation but left when the bickering started, when, as one member put it, people stopped acting like Christians. 
 According to Mr. Olinger, Astoria Presbyterian began focusing on its financial troubles as early as 2002. With the church's holdings valued at more than $4 million, selling the land for development was a lucrative option. But some congregants were not ready to accept such a change if it meant the disappearance of an institution's character, its history and the sacred place where thousands were baptized and married.
 The church leadership was interested in pursuing a social justice project, such as lower-rent senior housing, so Mr. Olinger began researching potential developers and nonprofit groups. His efforts were made more complex because Presbyterian churches are governed as democracies. The congregation holds the church property in trust for the institution known as the Presbytery of New York City and plays a role in determining its fate. 
 After the church's financial troubles became public, the congregation began holding meetings about the church's future. The debates grew so heated that a mediator was included in discussions. In the summer of 2005, the congregation voted narrowly in favor of considering the sale of the land, with the hope that any development would contribute in a positive way to the community.
 By the fall, the church was in conversation with Enterprise Community Partners, a national nonprofit organization that finances affordable housing projects. Enterprise and a local nonprofit group called the Hellenic-American Neighborhood Action Committee, known as Hanac, came up with a proposal to build low-rent housing for the elderly. Enterprise would finance the project, with money provided largely through tax credits and the federal government.
 Hanac offered Astoria Presbyterian $4.25 million for the right to raze the church buildings and erect a 93-unit apartment house. In exchange, the church would have a sanctuary, meeting space and offices in the new building, along with the right to repurchase the land and manage the apartment house in 15 years, if it also agreed to assume any debt on the property. 
 To Mr. Olinger, the deal was an answer to his prayers. ''From a business side and a spiritual side, I was aware this had to be,'' he said. ''We built fortresses instead of being out there in the community, and this was a way to re-engage them.'' 
 Saving a Sanctuary
 Church members who opposed the demolition saw the situation very differently. For them, the debate was never about whether the church needed to address its financial troubles, but whether there was a better way to do so. 
 Shannon Wilkinson, who owns a Manhattan public relations firm and lives across the street from the church, was among 11 people who made up a group opposing the development plan. 
 She insisted that the church could be saved in other ways, for example, by its members' attending community board meetings and seeking support from local officials. But in her opinion, the social benefits of the project mollified congregants and warded off community opposition. 
 ''It's bullet-proof,'' Ms. Wilkinson said of the church's plan in a conversation at Michael's Restaurant on Broadway, where she used to have brunch with other church members after Sunday services. ''It's very difficult for a church to be criticized for wanting to replace its structures with senior housing because the other mantra for a church, including this church, is that we're fulfilling our Christian mission.'' 
 No one debates the need for lower-rent housing for the neighborhood's elderly. George Delis, until recently the district manager of Community Board 1, predicted that when the housing project on the church's property was completed, about two years from now, at least 4,000 people would apply for apartments. ''We get calls every single day for senior housing,'' Mr. Delis said.
 Ms. Wilkinson knows that western Queens is desperate for senior housing but thought the project was wrong for the area. ''The development was too large for the space, the street, the neighborhood and would strain the resources of the community,'' she said.
 Still another source of disagreement involved the specifics of the church's financial situation. According to Mr. Olinger, an architect with Goshow Architects, the firm that is designing the housing for the elderly, told church officials that an estimated $3 million was needed for immediate repairs and other improvements, like air-conditioning. 
 Ms. Wilkinson contended that the church's fiscal needs, as spelled out in the plan presented to the congregants, had been exaggerated to prevent them from pursuing other alternatives. With the help of outside real estate agents, contractors and the Long Island City Alliance, an advocacy group, her group did its own calculations and in doing so determined that the land was undervalued and that many of the repairs were unnecessary. They concluded that the church could meet its most urgent needs for $1.4 million.
 The team developed a financial plan that in their opinion would have saved the church. The owner of Adventureland Child Care, an organization that provides child care to low-income Astoria families and rents space in the gym and in the church basement, offered $1 million for the pastor's residence. The plan was to sell the parsonage, use the money to restore the church, and provide additional income by renting or selling the gym. 
 Although the plan involved having a part-time volunteer minister instead of a salaried, full-time pastor, Ms. Wilkinson insisted that the group's goal was not to depose the current minister but to use church funds differently. ''This was not personally directed toward Reverend Olinger,'' she said.
 But according to the pastor, the fight got deeply personal for some people. He says anonymous letters were sent to the Presbytery of New York questioning his motives for supporting the housing project and his fitness as a church leader. 
 The final decision on the church's future came at a meeting in April 2006, at which the congregation ultimately voted 17 to 13 in favor of replacing the church with housing for the elderly. Only because the necessary tax credits have been delayed is the building still standing. John Kaiteris, executive director of Hanac, said he hoped that demolition could begin by November. 
 Trying to Let Go
 A few months ago, sitting in the parsonage he has called home for well over a decade, Mr. Olinger reflected on the long ordeal. He cited the adage saying that God never gives people more than they can handle. Mother Teresa, he noted, used to confess that she wished God didn't have such a high opinion of her. ''I found myself thinking the same thing,'' Mr. Olinger said. ''But you know, there's something comical about a blind pastor with a vision for the future.''
 Nor is Mr. Olinger the only one on whom the long struggle has taken a toll. It was 1982 when Violet Sewgobind, now 66, arrived in New York as an immigrant and discovered Astoria Presbyterian by looking through the Queens Yellow Pages. ''I've been a Presbyterian since I was a child growing up in Guyana,'' Ms. Sewgobind said. ''I came over here to be as active as I could in the church.''
 She took two subways and a bus to attend services, even though another Presbyterian church was a three-minute walk from her home in Queens Village. ''Even in snowstorms or rain, I was still there,'' she recalled. But she said people treated her differently as she helped lead the group opposing the razing of the church.
 ''I have to put Astoria Presbyterian behind me,'' Ms. Sewgobind said. She still loses sleep if she lets herself think about the way people behaved over the course of the debate. ''My heart grieves for the church.'' 
 Another member of the opposition, Trudy Lee, 64, attended Sunday school at the church when she was 5. She stopped attending the church when the decisions about development were being made. 
 Yet, though her mother was married in the parsonage and her son baptized in the church, her opposition to the housing project did not involve family attachments. ''They want to give us a community room,'' she said. ''I'm sorry, but a community room is not a holy place.'' It remains to be determined what the 2,000-square-foot area for worship within the housing development will look like. 
 Mr. Olinger's sermon at the service that morning shortly before Easter was about how people get attached to certain places. 
 ''We don't like endings, do we?'' Mr. Olinger said to his congregation. ''There's fear of the unknown. There's always loss.'' And yet, he continued, people have to let go to move forward, like trapeze artists who must let go of the bar to catch their partner's hands. ''Sometimes,'' he said, ''there has to be an ending so that there can be a beginning.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Rev. Don Olinger at one of the final services in the 86-year-old church building. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CY1)
Images of a community: the Rev. Don Olinger, top
an early photograph of the church
Will Cooper, the assistant music director, in prayer
 and a sketch of the building that will replace the church.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CY8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); RELIGION (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); HISTORY (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LAND SUBDIVISION (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



477 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Seeking to Tap Olympic Pride, Western Ads Cheerlead for China

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
It is becoming increasingly clear which nation global corporations will be rooting for at this summer's Olympics: China.
 Or at least that's what it looks like from advertisements here. McDonald's is running a ''Cheer for China'' television ad. Nike ads feature China's star hurdler, Liu Xiang, and other Chinese athletes besting foreign competitors. Earlier this year, Pepsi even painted its familiar blue cans red for a limited edition ''Go Red for China'' promotion.
 The campaigns for Western companies are part of an advertising blitz the likes of which this ostensibly communist nation has never seen. Ads are papered over bus shelters, projected on giant outdoor television screens and plastered on billboards. Commercials even flicker at commuters as they zoom through subway tunnels. 
 China, already the world's second-largest advertising market, after the United States, is a dream for consumer product companies. ''For most international brands here, China is the growth market for the next 10 years,'' said Jonathan Chajet, strategic director at Interbrand, which consults on brands.
 A record 63 companies have become sponsors or partners of the Beijing Olympics. Olympic-related advertising in China could reach $4 billion to $6 billion this year, according to CSM, a Beijing marketing research firm. 
 ''You've never seen the Olympics in a market that has such domestic, commercial scale,'' says Michael Wood, the chief executive for greater China at Leo Burnett, the global advertising agency. ''When the Olympics were in Los Angeles and Atlanta, the U.S. market was already fully developed.''
 The promise of selling a billion bottles of Coke to China's 1.3 billion people is no longer a pipe dream; last year, 24 billion bottles of Coca-Cola were sold in China. KFC, a unit of Yum Brands, has more than 2,000 stores here. McDonald's and Starbucks are ubiquitous. And Nokia, the cellphone maker, sold about 70 million phones to Chinese consumers in 2007, racking up sales of $10 billion. 
 Now those global brands are trying to extend their reach beyond China's wealthiest cities. But China's growing economic clout and increasing nationalism among its youth -- as well as the newfound strength of its homegrown brands -- pose challenges for foreign companies trying to woo its growing middle class.
 ''For most international brands, this is a double-edged sword,'' said Mr. Chajet of Interbrand. ''They're premium, high-tech and status brands. But there's rising nationalism, and the Olympics is a rallying cry for the Chinese, who are looking for a reason not to buy foreign.'' 
 To win over Chinese consumers, Adidas, which already has more than 4,000 stores in China, has new television and print ads showing legions of everyday Chinese guiding the country's top athletes to gold medal performances. The campaign won a top award at the Cannes Lions advertising festival in June.
 Erica Kerner, director of Adidas's Beijing Olympic Games program, said, ''This is about rallying the nation.'' 
 Gatorade, which is owned by Pepsico, has a television ad featuring Chinese athletes counting down to the year 2008. It concludes with a group of children, around age 7, at what looks like an Olympic training center, hitting table tennis balls in unison and counting down to 2012 and 2016.
 A Volkswagen campaign encourages people to ''honk for China''; McDonald's ads say ''I'm Lovin' It When China Wins''; and Nike, though not an Olympic sponsor, is the official outfitter of more than 20 of China's teams.
 But these advertising ventures are not going unchallenged. The Chinese government is pushing its companies to amplify their ad messages to compete with foreign brands. Many are promoting their home-court advantage.
 For example, a print advertising campaign by Anta, one of China's biggest sportswear companies, shows a crowd of flag-waving youths gesturing like wild revolutionaries in a state of Olympic euphoria. Many of Anta's television ads include the song lyrics ''I love you, China.''
 Ads by the dairy producer Yili feature young people and the tag line, ''I Make China Strong!''
 More than a dozen Chinese companies have paid millions each to become Olympic sponsors, including the computer maker Lenovo (the sole Chinese company among the Games' ''global sponsors''). And some companies are hinting that, like the country's top athletes, they can go head-to-head with the best in the West.
 Marketing experts say one downside to the advertising frenzy is the clutter.
 In the sea of ads featuring Chinese athletes pitching products as varied as Cadillacs and traditional Chinese medicine -- with endless images of the Olympic stadium -- is a simple question: Whose ad was that anyway? In fact, Mr. Liu, the hurdler, is in ads for at least 16 companies, including Nike and Coke.
 ''The sameness of the ads is the frightening thing,'' said Terry Rhoads, managing director at Zou Marketing, a sports consultancy in Shanghai. ''You have to wonder about the ad agencies.''
 The avalanche of Olympic television advertising is compounded by so-called ambush marketing, in which nonsponsors -- often rivals of official sponsors -- try to grab some Olympic glory without paying the high sponsorship fees. The proliferation of such ads is not going unchecked; China is scrutinizing the ads of nonsponsors, trying to give prime billboard space to the official sponsors.
 Pepsico, for instance, is not an Olympic sponsor, but its Gatorade brand sponsors some Chinese athletes. Nike is also not a sponsor of the Games, but it has created some of the most striking television ads, encouraging Chinese athletes to ''Just Do It.''
 Further blurring the line between official and unofficial, some competing companies have been allowed as sponsors: three beer makers -- Budweiser, Tsingtao and Yanjing -- will be Olympic sponsors, authorized not by the International Olympic Committee but by the Beijing Olympic committee. 
 With so many companies eager to market to China's increasingly wealthy consumers, advertising agencies and China's sports industry -- which controls Olympic athletes and shares in their sponsorship dollars -- have already captured lots of gold.
 ''There's never been an Olympics with such a big home market,'' says Dick van Motman, the chief executive of the Chinese division of DDB Worldwide, the advertising agency. For global brands to succeed, he said, that means ''reinforcing your image; aligning yourself with the China dream; and aligning yourself with China entering the world stage. That's the real game.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Coke tapped Will Pan, a singer, and the hurdler Liu Xiang. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COCA-COLA) (pg.A1)
 An Adidas campaign showing the Chinese masses supporting top athletes was honored at an international advertising festival. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN PYLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BRANDING (75%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (74%); RETAILERS (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (72%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (68%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (61%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (61%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (57%); YUM! BRANDS INC (53%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (57%); YUM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (53%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); HUNAN, CHINA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (73%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



478 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; SCHOOL ATHLETICS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Storied Team Faces School Budget Knife

BYLINE: By KATE STONE LOMBARDI

DATELINE: Mount Vernon 

 BODY:
 WHEN members of the Mount Vernon High School varsity basketball team attend a press conference, it's usually after securing another championship. The Knights have won 8 New York State championships, 4 New York State Federation Class AA championships and 25 Section 1 titles.
 But the student athletes who came to City Hall to hear community officials speak on a recent morning had an agenda even more urgent than clinching the top spot. They wanted to know whether their team -- or any other team in the Mount Vernon City School District -- would have a season at all.
 In the spring, Mount Vernon residents twice voted down the school budget. By state law, the district must now operate on a contingency budget. Nearly $5 million has been slashed from the $192.3 million budget originally proposed; it now stands at $187.4 million. Along with some teaching and administrative staff members, the entire interscholastic sports program was cut.
 ''I honestly couldn't believe it,'' said Mark Cole, 17, a shooting guard for the Knights who will be a senior. ''I've been playing basketball all my life in Mount Vernon. If they get rid of it, I don't know what I'd do. I want the chance to get a scholarship and go to college.'' 
 Another senior, Odayne Clarke, 18, a power forward for the team, described basketball as ''a one-way ticket to college.'' 
 While the students coped with their shock, Mayor Clinton Young announced the formation of Save Our Sports, a group to raise private funds to pay for school sports. Mr. Young, the Mount Vernon Board of Education, the PTA Council, the Mount Vernon Educational Foundation and others have united to rally residents, high school alumni, foundations and anyone willing to help restore athletics to the city's school district. 
 The district spent $1.1 million on athletic programs last year, but the group hopes to raise $950,000 to finance the entire sports program for the coming school year, including seventh- and eighth-grade teams, and boys' and girls' modified, freshman, junior varsity and varsity high school teams. More immediately, the district needs $300,000 by Aug. 10 to finance fall sports, including football. 
 Mount Vernon is known for its standout athletics. Seven of the high school's athletes have gone on to play in the National Basketball Association, most recently Ben Gordon of the Chicago Bulls. Mr. Gordon is helping to raise money for Save Our Sports.
 But the high school is also plagued by low graduation rates -- 55 percent of students graduate in four years. Nineteen percent of students live below the poverty level. The community has a high-need population but insufficient resources, said W. L. Sawyer, Mount Vernon's school superintendent. He said he recently discovered social studies books being used by seventh to 12th graders that listed Jimmy Carter as president.
 Dr. Sawyer said he understood the benefits of the sports program but had to put academic needs first. By cutting sports, he said, the district could retain a prekindergarten program that was critically needed for at-risk children.
 ''You should never be in a situation where you have to decide between throwing out into the water your mom or your brother,'' Dr. Sawyer said. ''But the reality is that when it comes to children and their capacity for learning, logic dictates that you try to make those decisions that keep you far away from harming the instructional classroom.''
 Charles Stern, president of the Board of Education, said that eliminating interscholastic sports had been a difficult decision. The board, he said, was ''deeply aware'' of the implications of the cuts, noting that children who participate in sports tend to perform better academically and that children who have structured activities between 3 and 6 p.m. tend to stay out of trouble.
 Several coaches at the high school stressed the far-ranging benefits of organized athletics.
 ''People need to realize that athletics is a great motivator,'' said Patrice Moore, coach of the girls' basketball team. ''When I look at the basketball players that participated with me at Mount Vernon High School, we are some successful women doing successful things.''
 Ms. Moore said that for many children, coaches acted as surrogate parents and had the opportunity to positively influence students' lives. She noted that none of her players had ever gotten pregnant. 
 Ric Wright, the boys' varsity football coach, said that even before the current budget problems, athletics had been underfinanced at Mount Vernon, pointing out that the school had no lacrosse, hockey or field hockey teams. 
 ''Every coach understands we're dealing with student athletes, and the student comes first,'' he said. ''But in this particular community, kids need extra help. Everyone knows that sports are the heart and soul of Mount Vernon.''
 Mayor Young, who ran track as a student at Mount Vernon High, said that the issue was not a debate between athletics and academics. He emphasized that sports were critical to the vast majority of young people who would not play professionally, but who would gain leadership skills, learn teamwork and develop self-esteem through their participation. Mr. Young said half his staff at City Hall are former varsity athletes.
 Dr. Sawyer said the challenge to the Mount Vernon schools was far bigger than sports financing.
 ''Other schools are looking at whether they can afford new scoreboards, while I'm looking at textbooks,'' he said. ''Urban school districts face specific challenges, and the needs of our children by far outweigh the allocations.''
 Indeed, the only other school district in Westchester to defeat a school budget twice this year is Bedford, one of the county's wealthier districts. (In that case, voters were disgruntled over the decision to give Debra Jackson, the outgoing superintendent, a $650,000 separation agreement and health care coverage for life.) Among the cuts in Bedford's contingency budget: delays in buying new desks, equipment and buses, and delays in financing capital projects, including a refurbished high school track and an expanded play area at an elementary school.
 In Mount Vernon's case, budgets in the last few years were passed by increasingly thin margins. This year, school board officials said, the economy and gas prices heavily influenced beleaguered taxpayers. 
 Mr. Stern, the board's president, said that while the board was committed to helping to raise private funds to restore interscholastic sports, the more pressing issue was why Mount Vernon needed charitable fund-raisers to provide programs that other students in Westchester receive routinely.
 ''The underlying issue is an inherently unfair funding formula for public education,'' he said. ''Historically, Mount Vernon schools have suffered under an antiquated system of funding from the state and federal level. It is pitting children against property owners, and right now, both are suffering.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PLAYERS: Mount Vernon's Mark Cole, left, and Odayne Clarke. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE1)
 GAME PLAN: A press conference at Mount Vernon City Hall on eliminating team sports. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (91%); BASKETBALL (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); MAYORS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); CITIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); FOUNDATIONS (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); ALUMNI (63%); POVERTY RATES (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



479 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: How We Treat Illegal Immigrants

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 I was delighted to read ''The Shame of Postville, Iowa'' (editorial, July 13), about the essay by Erik Camayd-Freixas, a professor and Spanish-language court interpreter who bore witness to the legal aftermath of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement raid at a meatpacking plant in Postville in May. 
 Professor Camayd-Freixas's powerful document describes ICE's new strategy of transforming violators of immigration laws into criminal offenders by nabbing hundreds of people at a time and charging them with crimes rather than with civil violations of immigration law. This bolsters the statistics on removal (deportation) of ''criminal aliens.'' 
 As part of this tactic, the nearly 400 mostly Guatemalan workers in Postville were shackled and herded onto the grounds of the National Cattle Congress in Waterloo, Iowa, where they were offered complicated criminal plea bargains that included an agreement to be subject to a rarely used method of fast-track removal after the sentence is served. 
 Most were offered the choice of five months in jail followed by deportation. If they fought their case, they faced a two-year sentence then deportation. 
 Everyone who cares about due process of law should read Mr. Camayd-Freixas's vivid chronicle of the event.
 Virginia E. Carstens Hartford, Conn., July 14, 2008
 The writer is an immigration lawyer.
 To the Editor:
 It is indeed sad that many of the workers picked up in the Postville, Iowa, raids were jailed, but to characterize the arrest and jailing of illegal immigrants who violated our immigration laws and committed document fraud as ''abusing and terrorizing'' them does not reflect the realities of our legal system. 
 The law does not automatically bestow compassion and forgiveness on lawbreakers based on the underlying motives for their crime. There is no difference between stealing a Social Security number to commit identity theft or using it simply to obtain employment. Both actions are crimes, deserving of the same punishment. 
 Last, ''under the old way'' of immediately deporting the illegal immigrants, they would have been treated to a free, American taxpayer-assisted one-way ride to Guatemala, most likely followed by their eventual return here via the coyote express.
 Henry C. Clifford III Wainscott, N.Y., July 15, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''An Interpreter Speaking Up for Migrants'' (front page, July 11):
 Several of my colleagues were sent to interpret the criminal prosecution of immigrant workers from the Postville, Iowa, raid. All came home saddened and indignant, with sympathy and respect for the detainees. 
 They realized that they had been used to persecute displaced people. Indeed, the defendants were mostly Guatemalan Mayans, whose country was in shambles because of a genocidal war, a reality never recognized by our country.
 The preamble to the code of ethics of the National Association of Judiciary Interpreters and Translators states, ''No code of ethics can foresee every conceivable scenario.'' It therefore encourages interpreters to develop their ''own, well-informed ethical judgment.'' 
 Confronted by the very prototype of an inconceivable, unforeseeable circumstance, the interpreters had a duty to apply their own ethical judgment. Erik Camayd-Freixas fulfilled that ethical duty.
 Madeline Newman Rios Claremont, Calif., July 11, 2008
 The writer is a court interpreter.
 To the Editor:
 There is another misgiving that should be mentioned about the immigration raid that occurred in Postville, Iowa: the enormous cost to the taxpayer. 
 When undocumented immigrant workers are whisked away through immediate deportation, the cost is relatively little. But to charge and convict the people from the Postville raid with truly criminal offenses, the federal government had to spend significant sums to process the litigation, manage the complicated logistics and imprison more than 260 people, most for five months. 
 While the humanitarian toll of this charade is certainly worth condemning, it is the continuous, senseless, vindictive, wasteful spending by the Bush administration to satisfy its extremist ideologies -- amid economic upheaval and an overpriced war -- that really unnerves me.
 Ari Gerstman Alexandria, Va., July 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DEPORTATION (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); DUE PROCESS (77%); TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (77%); SENTENCING (77%); COUNTERFEITING (77%); ETHICS (77%); FOREIGN LABOR (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); ARRESTS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); LAWYERS (74%); WRITERS (73%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (68%); IDENTITY THEFT (68%); DISPLACED PERSONS (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (78%) IOWA, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%); GUATEMALA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



480 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: The High School Years: Raw and Still Unfair

BYLINE: By KAREN DURBIN

 BODY:
HIGH school can be hard to shake. Some people never make it out of the cafeteria; they're still trying to find the cool kids' table. With ''American Teen,'' opening nationwide on Friday, Nanette Burstein can claim a certain expertise on the subject. This movie earned her the documentary directing award at this year's Sundance Film Festival and set off a bidding war. It's also something of an exorcism. Ms. Burstein was co-director, with Brett Morgen, of two highly regarded documentaries: the Oscar-nominated ''On the Ropes,'' about three young boxers hoping to fight their way out of poverty, and ''The Kid Stays in the Picture,'' a portrait of the flamboyant Hollywood producer Robert Evans. But the impetus for ''American Teen'' was more personal: her own intense high school experience two decades ago in Buffalo. 
 To make the 90-minute film Ms. Burstein moved to Warsaw, Ind., and, deploying multiple cameras, gathered 1,000 hours of footage as she and her crew followed four 17-year-olds through their senior year at the town's large, modern high school. The students could almost be the template for a John Hughes teen pic: the pampered queen bee Megan, whose imperious will to power masks a terrible secret; the basketball player Colin, who must win a sports scholarship or forgo college for the Army; the gifted bohemian Hannah, ready to break away but terrified that she may have inherited her mother's bipolar disorder; and the lonely band nerd Jake, funny and appealing but afflicted with vivid acne flare-ups that complicate his wry, determined search for a girlfriend. 
 To watch these real teenagers is to see egos and identities in raw, volatile formation; on the verge of entering a larger world, they are reaching for a sense of self. 
 Ms. Burstein, who at 38 could just about pass for a high school senior, discussed her subjects' teenage years, and her own, with Karen Durbin. These are excerpts from their conversation.
 Q. How did you choose these kids and this school?
 A. I looked at 10 schools in four states. I wanted an economic mix, the timelessness of the Midwest and a one-school town so you couldn't escape your social status. I interviewed about 200 seniors at Warsaw. My interviews with the four I chose are on the movie's Facebook site, and you can see what made them so interesting. In a dramatic film your character should have a strong need; it's the same in a documentary. You want someone who needs to accomplish something with all their heart and soul, and they all had that. 
 Q. I graduated from a large public high school in Indianapolis in the early '60s, and I was surprised at how much the experience of these contemporary teenagers resembled my own. Did you find that? 
 A. Yes. I went to a coed private day school, but it had a lot of the same social hierarchy and the same emotional core. It was an extremely challenging time, difficult but formative. I went from Megan to Hannah by my senior year. It was good that Warsaw wasn't just a mirror of my school. I could be objective and not carry so much anger.
 Q. What was the anger about?
 A. Not fitting in, feeling judged, feeling like I was never good enough.
 Q. Even though you started out being one of the cool crowd? 
 A. I did. But I never felt part of; I was Jewish, I wasn't wealthy, so I never really felt they were my friends. You're so vulnerable at that age. But I was lucky. I won a scholarship to spend my junior year in Barcelona. People were coming out of their shell after Franco, so it was an exciting place to be. And here I was this preppy girl in my fake-pearl necklace and khaki pants and whale belt, and the world opened up to me. There was no clique system, so I was able to learn how to be myself. I came home with a pink Mohawk, knowing I wanted to be a filmmaker. The Mohawk didn't last very long. I became more like Hannah. I didn't need to go to extremes. 
 Q. Did you find the kids you filmed different from your high school generation? These are small-town kids, but they share a huge pool of knowledge with their big-city counterparts because of the media and the Internet.
 A. What struck me most was their ability to analyze themselves and articulate their situation. Maybe this comes from blogs, MySpace, YouTube, etc.
 Q. What was your sense of sexual activity for Warsaw kids? 
 A. Sex surprised me there. I did have a sense of it, though people don't talk about it openly. It's a conservative community, and girls were supposed to stay virgins. Not everybody did, but I was surprised at how many girls were virgins. There's a certain amount of hooking up, and there are definitely girls getting pregnant. Abortion is not common.
 Q. That sounds like my high school years. I was also sorry to see that girls are still getting punished for being sexual. Girls used to be ruined by that.
 A. It's the same in the film. Girls are still judged for their level of promiscuity, and guys are still congratulated for theirs. 
 Q. Do you keep in touch with the kids?
 A. Yes. They've all finished their sophomore year in college now, and they look at themselves in the film as if they were different people then. We added an epilogue that tells what they're doing now. 
 Q. How about your own epilogue? 
 A. I want to do a fiction film. I've spent a lot of time taking real life and molding it into a narrative. Now I'd like to take a narrative and make it feel like real life. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The director Nanette Burstein, right, with Wolfgang Held on the set of ''American Teen'' in Warsaw, Ind. Megan Krizmanich, below middle, is one of the four teenage subjects of the documentary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PARAMOUNT VANTAGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); DRAMA FILMS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); BOXING (69%); BASKETBALL (64%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (50%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (70%) INDIANA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (55%)

TITLE: American Teen (Movie)>; American Teen (Movie)>

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



481 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Towns Put Their Surplus on the Block

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

DATELINE: BETHPAGE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 A TIP-OFF that the used cars for sale on a recent June morning here were not the typical variety came from the location: a lot ringed by barbed wire, on a dead-end street.
 Up close, too, were clues, like ''7th DWI'' scrawled on one car's window. Indeed, most of the 57 vehicles assembled for the Nassau County Police auction, run by Auctions International, had been seized in drunken-driving arrests. These included some cars with shattered windows.
 ''But that's not my concern,'' said Alex Greene, a musician from Merrick, as he nosed under the hood of a dark blue 1986 BMW, which, ultimately, he did not buy. ''I'm just trying to find something reasonably priced.''
 There have been more such opportunities of late, as towns, cities and counties around the metropolitan area have stepped up their efforts to unload surplus goods, including lawn mowers, metal safes, garbage trucks, lost luggage, even land. 
 That these oversize tag sales can raise substantial funds is an immediate benefit, municipal leaders say, and one that is especially important in a stressed economy, as taxpayers put more pressure on their elected officials to be frugal. 
 At the Nassau auction, for example, the police and the district attorney's office will split about 70 percent of the money -- a haul of $101,000 -- with the rest going to the state, assuming no victims need to be compensated first.
 But a bigger upside may be improved bond ratings. Over the last three decades, which roughly coincide with the time span for the growth in government auctions, municipalities have increasingly turned to bond issues to underwrite projects, according to public finance experts.
 Thirty years ago, municipal bond sales accounted for a fifth of the national bond market; now, they make up half, said Ehsan Nikbakht, a finance professor at Hofstra University. 
 As a result, municipalities are under the scrutiny of bond-rating agencies. Demonstrating that municipalities can wring value out of, say, used police cars, and are mindful of the bottom line, Dr. Nikbakht said, can enhance their borrowing power. 
 ''By showing that they don't keep a lot of junk in their backyard, their ratings will get better and better,'' he said.
 Auctions may be the most efficient way to clean out the garage, said Jim Potyra, a supervisor at the Connecticut Department of Administrative Services, which handles mostly state-owned surplus goods. Prison lathes, handbags lost at Bradley International Airport near Hartford, and police cars, which often end up as New York City taxicabs, are common items, he said. The auctions, held six times a year, raise up to $1 million combined, he said, which is divided between state agencies and Connecticut's general fund.
 Until 1996, the agency put a price tag on most surplus items and sold them out of a warehouse in Wethersfield, ''but we were never sure if we were getting the best value,'' Mr. Potyra said. 
 But all auctions may not be created equally. For years, Westchester County requested that used-furniture dealers submit sealed bids for its unwanted desk chairs, for example, but received few takers, said James Ferrara, a purchasing agent. Westchester wound up losing money, as the cost to dispose of the chairs was usually more than their value. 
 In 2004, Mr. Ferrara turned to eBay, which allowed the county to rake in $93,000 in 2007 for furniture and other surplus goods, he said.
 Westchester-owned backhoes and tractors, though, are still sold at a White Plains garage through live auctions twice a year; last year, 60 vehicles brought in $300,000, he said.
 Nationally, online auctions account for about 10 percent of government surplus sales, but that number is growing, said Craig Robbins, marketing director at Buffalo-based Auctions International, whose clients include Nassau County, Scarsdale, N.Y., and Stamford, Conn.
 ''I used to take winters off,'' but now there are too many online auctions, Mr. Robbins said. He said that online auctions cost less to operate, adding that ''some items are hard to sell at live auctions, like a pile of bricks.''
 Outsourcing sales to a Web-based business or another third party is not preferable when it comes to land, however, said Brian Williams, an administrator in Bridgeport, Conn. The city recently revised the way it sells foreclosed properties.
 Decades ago, outside brokers would market properties one at a time on a multiple listings service, and buyers had to get necessary permits before closings, which could take months, Mr. Williams said. Only three properties would trade hands in a year, he said.
 Since 2005, though, the city has taken over the process and secures all necessary planning board approvals before selling the land in one fell swoop. 
 In the last three years, an average of 30 properties have sold annually, he said, for a total of $6 million. It might have taken a decade to take in that much before, Mr. Williams said. ''And we are getting nonperforming assets back to work,'' he added.
 Before December 2007, there had been no official land-bidding process in Newark, where many impoverished residents, as in Bridgeport, are prone to default on city bills, said Stefan Pryor, the deputy mayor for economic development. He also said there had been a huge inventory of abandoned property.
 To turn it over, the city created a three-tiered sale system. For large properties, like a 50-acre parcel at the Broad Street railroad station, developers submit proposals by a certain date, and, in this case, 10 had done so by the May deadline, Mr. Pryor said. 
 At a separate winter auction, which took place over a month, 104 parcels, each about an acre and priced from $2 to $18 per square foot, received 90 bids, though most were for blocks of parcels, Mr. Pryor said. The bids, which he said could bring in $2 million, await Municipal Council approval.
 Hundreds of undersize lots that cannot support buildings but could make decent yards for existing homes will go on the auction block soon, he said, with 40 listings likely by the fall. All proceeds will be funneled to a special city real estate fund to be used to buy, say, waterfront property in Newark's port, Mr. Pryor said. 
 ''Bringing more revenue into the city is a key objective,'' Mr. Pryor said.
 Every September, Long Beach holds an annual sale at City Hall, with abandoned bicycles lined up outside, and copy machines, computers and printers on display in a room upstairs, said Marianne O'Toole, a city purchasing agent.
 Though $1,500 is taken in, a larger public relations purpose might be served. 
 ''Taxpayers want to know you're not just throwing things away when you no longer need them,'' Ms. O'Toole said. ''You're also showing there's no flimflamming.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: KICKING THE TIRES: Russ Scherrer, right, an auctioneer, called for bids on 57 vehicles being sold last month in Bethpage by the Nassau Police Department to raise money for the county. Most of the vehicles, above, had been seized in arrests for drunken driving. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRK CONDYLES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); BONDS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (87%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (78%); POLICE FORCES (76%); COUNTIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); CITIES (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); BOND ISSUES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); AIRPORTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



482 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: At Magazine Offices, Another Summer of Jitney No-Shows

BYLINE: By LAUREN LIPTON

 BODY:
THINGS were touch-and-go at Glamour on July 3. Many employees at the magazine's publisher, Conde Nast, had the go-ahead to leave work early for the long holiday weekend. But for those toiling feverishly on Glamour's September issue, the possibility was up in the air until the last minute. By the time Ayana Byrd, an articles editor, left at 5 p.m., the elevators that Glamour shares with magazines including Portfolio, Vanity Fair and The New Yorker felt deserted.
 ''In our elevator bank, it didn't seem like other people were working,'' Ms. Byrd said. ''I saw one or two people, but it felt like 9 o'clock at night.''
 In their July and August issues, Glamour features the perfect $795 beach hat; O, The Oprah Magazine, shares recipes for an alfresco dinner party; and Vogue suggests a Caribbean getaway. It's time to relax and have fun. Except, that is, for the employees at women's magazines, who every summer find themselves languishing in the office towers of Hearst, Conde Nast, Time Inc. and other publishing companies. 
 At stake are the fashion-packed, advertising-filled September and October issues, which ship to the presses in July and August and are always subject to such intense scrutiny by top editors and their corporate bosses that late changes are almost guaranteed. This year, as the women's publishing sector contends with declining advertising in most cases, and smaller staffs and major design changes in some, there is an unwelcome new twist: the traditional half-day on summer Fridays is starting to look like an endangered species.
 An industry tradition that for years let publishing employees leave by lunch for the Hamptons Jitney or a drive upstate is being canceled this season at Martha Stewart Living. Instead, the company is giving employees two Fridays and the week off between Christmas and New Year's. At Elle, summer hours that until last year went into effect on Memorial Day weekend now don't start until July. And at In Style, which unveiled a major redesign on Friday with its August issue and is still closing the September one, summer hours are being considered on a ''week by week, hour by hour'' basis, said Charla Lawhon, the managing editor. ''Everyone is much more on the ground this year because we have more work to do.''
 To be sure, busy summers are not new at women's magazines, and most employees understand that they come with the job. Although fall is an important time for all magazines, women's titles are particularly dependent on advertising from fashion designers and retailers, who take advantage of the change of seasons to tout their collections to readers generally eager to get out and shop. Vogue, for example, does about 20 percent of its annual advertising business with the September issue, said Thomas A. Florio, senior vice president and publishing director of the Vogue group. 
 But with April, May and June ad pages sharply down at most women's fashion and beauty magazines, there is more pressure than usual to do well this fall. Some publications, like Glamour and In Style, are redesigning their magazines. Skittish advertisers are also making more editorial demands. ''It's definitely pushed up a notch -- 'feature my clothes, do a profile on me,' '' said Carol A. Smith, senior vice president and group publishing director of Elle, where ad pages were up for April, May and June over the same period last year. 
 At Seventeen, the September back-to-school issue had about 25 percent more pages than a normal issue, with no additional help other than an army of summer interns. ''It's a brutal grind,'' said Ann Shoket, the magazine's editor in chief. ''When Friday afternoon rolls around, I can hear everyone's cellphones ringing, and I see the resignation in their faces because we've got to ship more pages.'' 
 Ms. Byrd, of Glamour, had her strategy figured out this year. She left for a two-week vacation in late April, before her magazine's fall issues started production, editing and turning in her stories before flying to a wedding in Greece. ''When I came back, we had a new creative director,'' she said -- and a complete redesign of the magazine. That meant Ms. Byrd had to rethink and rework articles that she had thought she'd finished. ''You come back from vacation like, la-di-dah -- oh, O.K.,'' she said.
 This year, Ms. Shoket took work with her to the Hamptons on Fourth of July weekend. (''It's the chic new accessory -- page proofs,'' she said.) Cindi Leive, the editor in chief of Glamour, said she hasn't had a Fourth of July since 1992. 
 Still, another tradition in magazine publishing -- top editors leaving early while underlings are left behind -- hasn't entirely been overturned. Earlier this summer, the glass hives within the Hearst Tower on Eighth Avenue buzzed with drones working late, yet Amy Gross, the editor in chief of O, could be seen going down the lobby escalator more than one Thursday afternoon, a bright yellow rolling bag in tow. (Ms. Gross, who retired this month, traveled often on business, said a spokeswoman for the magazine. ''If someone saw her with a suitcase, that would not have been the least bit unusual,'' she said.)
 While publishing companies attribute the changes in summer hours to everything from fluctuations in printing schedules to, at Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, increased business in both its media and retail areas, publishing insiders suspect other forces are at play. In the tough economy, it's more about squeezing as much as possible from fewer employees, some say, and jobs are so scarce that nobody is going to complain.
 Shea Daspin is one who's not complaining. An intern at Interview and new to the city, she has worked long hours on the culture magazine's September fashion issue. ''Obviously I like to get out when it's light out so I can go for a run or something, but I don't mind if my internship takes up my whole day,'' she said. ''I don't go to the Hamptons or anything.''
 Fashion and beauty magazine employees also get perks those at other companies don't enjoy. In Style gives its people summer goody bags, which this year included books, bronzer and a Rihanna CD. At Marie Claire, Joyce Corrigan, senior editor at large, said that the beauty department is always setting out free sunscreen and that there is ''a ridiculous amount of chocolate around to keep the energy up.''
 Still, some can't shake the feeling that summer shouldn't be this way. An intern at Conde Nast is envious of friends with internships in other fields. ''They're out having their cool New York summer,'' the intern said in an e-mail message. ''Those of us in the magazine world are here past dinner, and then by the time we leave are far too tired to go out drinking. I guess it's a good thing. It's an honor that they take us seriously enough to work us this hard. But, man, I'd love a nap.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FOR THE FALL: Helping to finish the September issue of Interview magazine are two interns, Meghan Cornay, 22, left, and Angelique Smith, 20. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
TO PRESS: Preparing an issue of Marie Claire were Suzanne Sykes, creative director, left
Joanna Coles, editor in chief, center
 and Lucy Kaylin, executive editor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (91%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (91%); CHRISTMAS (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (73%); FASHION DESIGN (71%); OFFICE PROPERTY (66%); FASHION DESIGNERS (66%); RETAILERS (60%)

COMPANY: TIME INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



483 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: Double Edge to Brooklyn's Success

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
When the Brooklyn Brewery set up its brew house 12 years ago in a decaying section of Williamsburg riddled with empty shells of the borough's industrial past, Steve Hindy, the brewery's president, was hailed as a pioneer.
 Today, the neighborhood has come a long way: Condominiums a block away offer rooftop cabanas, while developers are turning neighboring warehouses and factories into bowling alleys and boutique hotels designed for hipsters. 
 Like the neighborhood it helped to reinvigorate, the brewery is thriving, enough to justify an expansion. But the gentrification Mr. Hindy once championed has made a hostage of his company, he says. 
 He and his partners are willing to spend $15 million for a bigger brewery that would employ at least twice as many workers as he has now and would have a beer garden where customers could sample his growing roster of specialty brews. But after four years of searching and two failed bids to be included in redevelopment projects in Red Hook and Carroll Gardens, they have not found a suitable building in the borough at a feasible price. 
 ''We are the Brooklyn Brewery, and we want to be in Brooklyn,'' said Mr. Hindy, who often bicycles to work from his home in Park Slope. ''If we can't find a place, then who can? We're about as perfect an example of light manufacturing as you can get.''
 Mr. Hindy has plenty of company in the hunt for affordable industrial land. Manufacturing space has become scarcer and more expensive as city officials have encouraged developers to replace crumbling factories and warehouses with amenity-laden condominiums. 
 ''The scarcity of manufacturing land becomes a problem for manufacturers that are otherwise thriving in New York City,'' said Leah Archibald, executive director of the East Williamsburg Valley Industrial Development Corporation, a Brooklyn business coalition. 
 The number of manufacturing jobs in the city, which once exceeded 850,000, fell below 100,000 in recent months, according to statistics compiled by the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. Manufacturing now accounts for about one of every 40 jobs in the city, down from almost a quarter of all jobs in the mid-1960s.
 ''These manufacturing jobs are worth preserving because they're excellent, high-wage jobs that don't require English as a first language or a high level of education,'' Ms. Archibald said. ''They pay way better than retail.''
 Many of the survivors are makers of specialty foods, like Amy's Cookies in Red Hook, which sells tea cookies to Dean & DeLuca markets, and Bagels by Bell in Canarsie, one of the biggest bakers of bialys in the country. Warren Bell, who employs more than 30 people, said he had given up after a few years of trying to find an affordable building for his growing bakery and had decided to seek a variance that would allow him to add a second floor.
 ''I could move out to Long Island and send the product here and distribute it out to my customers from here,'' said Mr. Bell, who lives in Bergen Beach. But, he added, ''I have ties here. I like saying we produce in Brooklyn.'' 
 Ms. Archibald said her organization ''would do back flips'' to keep the Brooklyn Brewery in the area. But she said there was simply no space available in North Brooklyn that would accommodate its needs, in part because some landlords are holding onto industrial property with the hope that it will be rezoned for residential buildings.
 ''Absolutely, there's warehousing of space going on,'' Ms. Archibald said. ''You can make so much more money with a residential development, so many times more than you can with an industrial user.''
 Ms. Archibald described the brewery as a valued part of the community partly because ''they got here first.'' Mr. Hindy and his co-founder, Tom Potter, moved their business into its home on North 11th Street when only a few art galleries had attempted to breathe new life into Williamsburg.
 Back then, Brooklyn Brewery was making and selling about 15,000 barrels of beer a year, but none of it was produced anywhere in New York City. The company's flagship product, Brooklyn Lager, was brewed 180 miles away at a large contract brewery in Utica, N.Y.
 Since then, the company's output has grown sixfold. Most of its products, including the six-packs of its lager and brown ale that are sold in New York City, are bottled in Utica. But the brewery in Williamsburg turns out about 12,000 barrels of specialty beers annually, including a premium brew, Brooklyn Local 1, which comes corked like Champagne and sells for as much as $15 a bottle.
 Mr. Hindy said the company could expand its local production to more than 40,000 barrels a year, and more than double its current payroll of 35 people, if it found a space that was large enough. But that quest has left Mr. Hindy feeling unappreciated by city officials.
 He was a champion of the rezoning of Williamsburg and Greenpoint that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg pushed through in 2005. But now he contends that the changes went too far by allowing a variety of nonindustrial uses of land in areas that are labeled industrial business zones.
 Entrepreneurs, like the ones who plan to turn the warehouse next to the brewery into a bowling alley, are willing to pay far more for space, Mr. Hindy said. He said the rent on the brewery started at $3 a square foot and has risen to $9. He estimated that the bowling alley would pay about twice as much, a price that he said would be prohibitive for a brewery.
 A few years ago, Mr. Hindy and his partners hatched a plan to team up with the company that distributes its beers, Phoenix/Beehive Beverages of Long Island City, Queens, and move to Pier 7 in the Red Hook container port. Once there, Phoenix, which is the exclusive distributor of Heineken beer in the city, would have been able to receive its imports by water, skipping the expensive step of having them trucked in from Port Newark in New Jersey and ensuring a steady flow of work for longshoremen on the Brooklyn waterfront.
 Under the plan, the new, bigger Brooklyn Brewery would have occupied a building at the foot of the pier, with a beer garden to attract local residents and tourists. The brewery would have served as a buffer between Brooklyn Bridge Park and the industrial piers.
 Mr. Hindy and executives of Phoenix convinced officials of the city's Economic Development Corporation that the city should acquire the pier from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and lease it to them. But the Port Authority got tangled in a legal battle with American Stevedoring, the operator of the Red Hook container port. Several elected officials, including Representative Jerrold Nadler, opposed the city's effort to replace American Stevedoring, which renewed its lease for 10 years in April.
 Mr. Hindy said he was ''completely baffled'' by the rejection of the Pier 7 plan and felt as though his need for an alternative location had lost the attention of city officials. 
 ''I just felt like in that whole battle, I got left out,'' he said with a go-figure shrug.
 Andrew Genn, a vice president in the maritime division of the Economic Development Corporation, said the agency shared Mr. Hindy's frustration and continued to work with him to find an alternative location. But, Mr. Genn said, the brewery's demands were hard to meet because ''they need a lot of land in New York City under a roof.''
 With the Pier 7 location eliminated, Mr. Hindy sought to have his brewery included in plans for Public Place, the proposed redevelopment of six acres along the Gowanus Canal in Carroll Gardens as a residential and commercial complex. But the developer Mr. Hindy had teamed with was not the winning bidder, so the brewery was left to continue its search.
 Mr. Hindy has been pressing city officials to help him because he says that their rezoning decisions have put growing manufacturers like the brewery in bind. ''If the government wants me to be here, then make it less expensive for me to be here,'' he said.
 But, unlike some other employers, he is not threatening to leave the city if he does not get the help he needs. 
 ''Once you name your company Brooklyn Brewery, you kind of take away the threat of moving to New Jersey,'' Mr. Hindy said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tom Villa checks fermentation levels at the Brooklyn Brewery in Williamsburg. It opened there 12 years ago, helping to usher in the area's rebirth.
The brewery's owners want to expand, but rents in the neighborhood have shot up. Proposals to move elsewhere in Brooklyn have fallen through. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEATRICE DE GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A21)
Industrial buildings around the Brooklyn Brewery on North 11th Street in Williamsburg have been turned into condominiums.
Steve Hindy, the brewery's president, says that city zoning decisions have put him and other growing manufacturers in a bind.
 The revitalization of Williamsburg and Greenpoint has meant higher rents and less available space for businesses. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEATRICE DE GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BREWERIES (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOURMET FOOD STORES (83%); CITIES (78%); RETAILERS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); STATISTICAL METHOD (73%); STATISTICS (73%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TEA (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); BAKERIES (69%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); FOOD INDUSTRY (63%); BOWLING CENTERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



484 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Sure, Plant Prices Are Up, But Good Advice Is Free

BYLINE: By GERRI HIRSHEY. 
E-mail: conn@nytimes.

 BODY:
THE sign near the cash register at my favorite nursery told the darkening tale: ''$10 fuel surcharge on all deliveries.'' Rising prices -- on everything from high-end hellebores to the most pedestrian hosta -- have curbed my plant-buying binges this season with a resolve that my husband has long prayed for.
 Mulch was up, too, but manure has held steady -- to the horror of our teenage son, who helped me load 240 pounds of it at Snow's Farm in Easton, then wondered plaintively whether the car would be habitable for date night. ''Why didn't we just pay to have it delivered?'' he yawped.
 ''Give it a shot of Febreze,'' I snapped back. ''And quit whining.'' 
 It's tough being a plant slave in these tightening times. It helps that I have long practiced a form of cheapskate gardening learned at the grass-stained knees of my father, master of his .33 acre Fairfield domain. 
 Long before the current vogue for native species, Dad was digging ferns and maple saplings out of the woods, a practice I continue despite a few unfortunate run-ins with poison ivy roots. A few years back, I added my own twist to salvage gardening when I rescued (with permission) a wheelbarrow full of peonies, pulmonaria, day lilies and herbs about to be bulldozed when a house was demolished. Lo, the orphans have flourished and multiplied, grateful to be alive.
 As tear-down madness grew rampant in Fairfield County, I found that some savvy developers do cherry-pick valuable Japanese maples and evergreens from demolition sites for reuse or sale. But most of them don't want to sweat the small stuff -- the perennials, the runty boxwoods, the ground cover. I like to keep a spade and bucket in the car trunk just in case -- and I always seek the blessing of whoever is in charge at the site. One sympathetic plant lover climbed off his bulldozer and led me to a clump of lilies of the valley that he preferred not to pulverize. They're part of our rock garden now, and spreading nicely down the slope.
 Plant-swapping is another thrifty art I learned from my father, who divvied and split pachysandra and forsythia with neighbors struggling to green up our raw, then-new development of ranches and split-levels. When it comes to landscaping, I hew to his creed: propagate the heck out of what you've got, and size up thy neighbor's perennial bed for barter possibilities. 
 Dad was recycling -- pots, stakes, bulbs, seeds -- back when it cost 25 cents to fill the mower with gas. The spring after he died, I laid claim to his much-mended tomato cages and slapdash trellises, which are now creaking beneath a bumper crop of snap peas and cukes. 
 These are admittedly amateur economies. But there is another way to save money. Cutting-edge professional advice is available -- free. During the last growing season. I was thrilled to discover a resource that many gardeners are still unaware of, when I visited the busy walk-in clinic for plant maladies at the Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station in New Haven. 
 There, where plant pathologists have assisted without charge since 1888, the staff offers diagnosis and treatment advice to growers of all stripes, from backyard tomato enthusiasts to the proprietors of multimillion-dollar nursery crops threatened by microscopic mites. They receive more than 7,000 inquiries a year. Give them your wilted, your spotted, your fungused and mildewed specimens. They'll dissect and test, and consult their huge data bank for answers. 
 The garden forensics are overseen by Dr. Sharon Douglas, head of the station's plant pathology and ecology department, who has been providing diagnoses there for 26 years. ''When people come in with a diseased plant,'' Dr. Douglas explained, ''we often put a sample in the stereo microscope, which has a great video display they can see.'' Over the last few years, she has frequently gotten this response: ''Wow! It's just like 'C.S.I.' ''
 Hunting bad-guy diseases like phytophthora -- a nasty root-rot pathogen with a broad variety of hosts, including rhododendrons and azalea -- Dr. Douglas and her slime-scene investigators are relentless. Sometimes, suspecting new and dreaded plant terrorists like sudden oak death, they consult with the United States Department of Agriculture. But unlike the forensics showboaters on ''C.S.I.,'' this team goes beyond merely unmasking the killers.
 ''One of the major parts of our service is educational,'' Dr. Douglas said. ''We diagnose problems, but we want people to understand the situations that led to them. It's a holistic approach we call plant-health management. Is it in the right spot, with enough light and water? How's the soil? Are there enough nutrients? That's detective work we can teach people to do themselves.''
 Often, she suggests soil testing, which is also free. ''We'll see people replacing plants a few times in the same spot. In the long run, making adjustments to the planting environment can save a lot of money and grief.''
 Having counseled many a new homeowner craving an instant landscape, she cautions that buying bigger isn't necessarily better: ''A smaller tree,'' for instance, ''will have less stress adjusting to the transplant. It establishes itself more effectively and will be more structurally sound.'' 
 The Plant Disease Information Office, Room 112 in the Station's Jenkins Laboratory building, accepts plant and soil samples on weekdays from 8:30 am to 4:30 pm, or by mail. Details on submitting samples are available at (877) 855-2237 or go the station's Web site, www.ct.gov/caes. 
 Backyard and professional gardeners can also take advantage of the station's annual plant science day. This year, it will be held on Aug. 6 at Lockwood Farm in Hamden. Dr. Douglas and her staff will be there, microscopes at the ready. 
 The question and answer tent is popular, Dr. Douglas said. ''We get lines. Some people walk in with a box of 15 samples to be looked at. Others show up with one beloved begonia. They can also bring a soil sample for analysis.''
 Had we known about this bounty of free advice back in the day, Dad and I would have loaded up the Chevy with a bushel basket of wilting and spotted patients, along with sandwich bags full of the soil he was always sifting and sniffing for the perfect organic bouquet. Doubtless he'd deliver us to the lab with the axiom he applied to all his domestic economies: ''You see a deal, kiddo -- jump on it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sharon Douglas is a plant-disease detective in New Haven. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS MCDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (90%); ORPHANS (76%); RELIGION (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (59%) CONNECTICUT, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



485 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Who Wants To Retire Later? (Don't Laugh)

BYLINE: By HARRY HURT III

 BODY:
WORK longer and retire later? The very idea sounds depressing, especially to overworked, underpaid, aging baby boomers like me. But we may have no choice if we want to avoid a precipitous decline in our accustomed standard of living. That is the basic thesis of ''Working Longer: The Solution to the Retirement Income Challenge,'' by Alicia H. Munnell and Steven A. Sass (Brookings Institution Press).
 In thought-provoking if sometimes cloistered academic terms, ''Working Longer'' tackles the issue of surviving one's so-called golden years. Ms. Munnell, a former assistant Treasury secretary for President Bill Clinton, is a professor of management sciences and director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College. Mr. Sass, a former economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, is associate director of the research center. 
 Ms. Munnell and Mr. Sass define succinctly the problem faced by baby boomers, and for that matter, by all Americans who aspire to retire now or in the near future. They note that the nation's retirement system, as embodied by Social Security and Medicare in the public sector and I.R.A.'s and 401(k) plans in the private sector, is contracting in its ability to replace workers' lost income -- even as life expectancy is increasing.
 ''About 19 percent of men and 33 percent of women who survive to age 65 will live to age 90 or older and have to support themselves for almost 30 years,'' the authors report, adding matter-of-factly, ''The arithmetic does not work.''
 Citing a plethora of actuarial studies, Ms. Munnell and Mr. Sass estimate that people who retire at age 65 today can expect Social Security to provide the equivalent of only 39 percent of their incomes after deductions for basic Medicare contributions. Those who plan to retire in 2030 can expect net benefits, similarly calculated, of only 30 percent of their incomes.
 Current and future retirees would be ill-advised to rely on private-sector income supplements. In 1989, the authors report, 66 percent of American employers provided postretirement health care benefit programs. By 2006, that number had fallen to just 35 percent. 
 Worse, the rate at which Americans save for their nest eggs is abysmal. According to a Federal Reserve study in 2004, the ''simulated,'' or theoretically possible, savings in I.R.A.'s and 401(k) plans owned by people ages 55 to 64 was $314,000. The actual average savings, however, was just $60,000. 
 So what do we do about the looming retirement income crisis? Ms. Munnell and Mr. Sass recommend that people postpone their retirements from age 63, the current average, to 66. Interestingly enough, 66 was the average back in 1962. They also say that it is time to look at raising the earliest eligibility age for Social Security benefits. (It is currently 62.)The authors write that four more years of work alters the ratio of retirement to working years from 1 to 2, meaning 20 years of retirement and 40 years of work, to almost 1 to 3, or 16 years of retirement and 44 years of work.
 The authors contend that working longer and retiring later can generate powerful benefits for aging baby boomers and the workers in their wake. First, it would delay the need for people to tap into I.R.A.'s and 401(k)'s, thereby swelling their total assets and increasing the future income they can produce. 
 Second, it would help maximize the benefits of Social Security, which are about one-third higher for recipients who are 66 than for those who are 62.
 The authors concede that convincing people to retire later will be a challenge on sociocultural, economic and political levels. 
 There are medical issues, too. The title of Chapter 2 asks, ''Will Older People Be Healthy Enough to Work Longer?'' The answer is a qualified yes, given the improvements in health care in the last few decades and the less physically demanding employment roles that have come with the rise of the service economy.
 But as subsequent chapters ask, will men and women want to work longer? The fact that both sexes currently have access to Social Security benefits at age 62 makes the answers here just qualified maybes.
 The answer to the question raised by Chapter 5, ''Will Employers Want to Employ Older Workers?'' is ''probably not.'' As Ms. Munnell and Mr. Sass say, older workers can offer maturity, wisdom and sound judgment, and can ensure the continuation of ''institutional memory'' at small business and large corporations. 
 But the authors also remind us that ''employers in the past have not been eager to retain or hire older workers, and there is little indication that attitudes have significantly changed.'' After all, they say, employers are not in the business of providing retirement security.
 What's more, the rising percentage of older workers in the labor pool is likely to reduce their value relative to one another as well as to younger workers who earn lower salaries and incur lower health care costs.
 IN the end, the retirement income crisis becomes an issue of political and demographic will. Only Congress can raise the age for access to Social Security benefits. But what Congress would do such a thing? Would a President Obama support it? Would a President McCain? Would voters accept it?
 In answer to these types of questions, Ms. Munnell and Mr. Sass urge both government and prospective retirees to be ''rational actors'' in the life-cycle drama.
 As a baby boomer, I strive for the best, but I have learned to expect the worst. It may be a stretch to ask government to act rationally. Asking my contemporaries to recognize that it is in their long-term interests to delay the immediate gratification of retirement may be wishful thinking. 
 As far as many of us are concerned, the Who's rock anthem of 1965, ''My Generation,'' still says it all: ''I hope I die before I get old.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (90%); AGING (90%); AGING TRENDS (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); US 401K PLANS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); MEDICARE (88%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); WOMEN (66%); MEN (65%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (63%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (69%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); BOSTON COLLEGE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (87%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



486 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; LOS ANGELES JOURNAL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: At the Intersection of Synagogue and Boardwalk, a Feud

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
The only synagogue on the Venice Beach boardwalk has weathered 80 years' worth of oscillating economies, winos, shamans and aggressive panhandlers, disintegration of its own community and surf seekers on all manner of speeding wheels. It has stood as much for tolerance as faith in a community where the former is in high demand. 
 But for its congregants, it has been increasingly difficult to countenance the mannequins in racy underwear, creeping ever so often unto the property of their tiny, sun-bleached house of worship. 
 Over the last few years, the Orthodox synagogue, the Pacific Jewish Center, has been at quiet war with the owners of its next-door neighbor, Unruly, a purveyor of T-shirts, bathing suits and undergarments. 
 Worshipers say workers in the shop blast music on Saturday mornings, overwhelming the religious service held with the door open to the boardwalk. When the worshipers ask for the music to be lowered for an hour, they are met with hostility, they say, some of it smacking of anti-Semitism. Once in a while, the police have been called. 
 Further, there have been occasions when mannequins dressed in G-strings and other clothes that are decidedly not part of the customary wardrobe of Orthodox Jews have been placed on the synagogue's property line -- as a matter of provocation, some members suggest. 
 ''We haven't been judgmental about their merchandise,'' said Judd Magilnick, a member. ''It is a question of common courtesy. Even the more Bohemian, alternative-lifestyle types on the boardwalk are aware of our requests and wait until afternoon on Saturdays before they strike up the band. We have friendly cooperation from everyone else, even people you think would be accountable to no one.''
 Ruly Papadopulos, whose wife owns Unruly, said that the business felt harassed by the worshipers but that the extent of the problem had been exaggerated. ''The rabbi comes over and asks us to turn it down,'' Mr. Papadopulos said. ''We say, 'Calm down, we will.' ''
 This episodic neighborhood schism might have remained just that, had Eric Mankin, a science writer for University of Southern California publications and a Venice resident, not wandered into Unruly this month, chasing after his dog who had gotten off its leash. 
 Mr. Mankin said he mentioned to the owners of Unruly, where a neon sign reading ''Sexetera'' hangs over the door, that the synagogue next to the shop was ''something I've always regarded as a landmark of Venice's inclusiveness and diversity.'' 
 Mr. Papadopulos, Mr. Mankin said, replied that he hated Jews -- something Mr. Papadopulos flatly denies having said. Mr. Mankin, who is Jewish but not religious, said he was flabbergasted. 
 The next day, Mr. Mankin appeared in front of the store holding a sign that read ''Ask the owner of Unruly why he hates Jews.''
 ''If someone is going to proclaim loudly they hate Jews,'' he said, ''then people who are going to shop in his store have the right to know about that.''
 Mr. Papadopulos was displeased by this and called the police. ''He was the aggressor,'' Mr. Papadopulos said in an interview in front of his store. ''I never said I hate Jews. I said: 'I hate you. I hate you!' ''
 Sgt. Stephen Showler, who is in charge of the Venice Beach detail for the Los Angeles Police Department, responded.
 ''It was basically a First Amendment issue,'' Sergeant Showler said. Mr. Mankin ''has the right to protest,'' he said. ''When I got there, he said, 'I've been out here a couple hours. I think I'll call it a day.' '' 
 During two generations of life on the colorful boardwalk, where karma analysis takes place next to impromptu pot parties that abut bongo drummers and flip-flop barkers, conflicts among neighbors have been few, say even the synagogue's oldest members. 
 In the 1920s, as Venice evolved into the ''Coney Island of the West,'' Jewish immigrants played a vital role on the boardwalk. There were several synagogues along the beach, and the area was dotted with kosher butchers and other Jewish merchants. Working-class Jews from Los Angeles called Venice their summer home, and many others migrated to the area, according to the book ''California Jews,'' by Ava F. Kahn and Marc Dollinger.
 The mid-1960s saw an exodus of Jewish families, and the synagogues all but disappeared. The Pacific Jewish Center was headed for a similar fate, but in the mid-1970s, a group of young Orthodox Jews led by the author Michael Medved revived it. 
 About 80 people pile onto the simple benches each Saturday morning to pray against the backdrop of waves. ''We invite anyone who has expressed a genuine interest and has shirt and shoes,'' said Gary Dalin, a member since 1979. 
 Its most high-profile conflict has been with the state's Coastal Commission, which has taken a dim view (along with many residents) of members' desire to hang a strand of fishing line several miles long to create an eruv, or symbolic religious enclosure that would permit them to perform certain tasks, like carrying things, outside their homes on the Sabbath. 
 Mr. Dalin and others said that they had heard Mr. Papadopulos refer to the members as ''greedy'' and make other vague remarks that suggest he may not be fond of Jews but said that they were not particularly worried or interested. They just want the music turned down. 
 Sergeant Showler said that he had never heard claims of anti-Semitism until now but that there had been flare-ups between the store and the synagogue in the past. ''It is an interesting place to have a synagogue,'' he said. ''Hopefully it won't be an issue between them, and they can be good neighbors. This is my goal.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Pacific Jewish Center, an Orthodox synagogue, on the colorful Venice Beach boardwalk. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); PANHANDLING (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



487 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: Borrowers And Bankers: A Great Divide

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
THE credit crisis has exposed and worsened a dangerous and deepening divide in this country between a vast number of average borrowers and a fairly elite slice of corporations, banks and executives enriched by the mortgage mania.
 Borrowers who are in trouble on their mortgages have seen their government move slowly -- or not all -- to help them. But banks and the executives who ran them are quickly deemed worthy of taxpayer bailouts.
 On the ground, this translates into millions of troubled borrowers, left to work through their problems with understaffed, sometimes adversarial loan servicing companies. If they get nowhere, they lose their homes. 
 Taxpayers, meanwhile, are asked to stand by with money to inject into Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored mortgage finance giants, should they need propping up if loan losses balloon. 
 The message in this disconnect couldn't be clearer. Borrowers should shoulder the consequences of signing loan documents they didn't understand, but with punishing terms that quickly made the loans unaffordable. But for executives and directors of the big companies who financed these loans, who grew wealthy while the getting was good, the taxpayer is coming to the rescue.
 To be sure, bailouts are becoming increasingly necessary in our highly leveraged, interconnected financial world. One obvious reason that huge companies are not allowed to fail is that so many people are hurt by such debacles. If a family files for bankruptcy or loses a home, the pain still hurts, but its emotional and financial ripples are confined. 
 And in the heat of a financial crisis, there is often little time to think through who deserves a bailout and who does not. In especially dire circumstances, leaders have no choice but to rescue companies. Think about Bear Stearns: even though it was relatively small in size for a brokerage firm, its demise had to be averted because of a possible domino effect that might have also taken down its many trading partners. In that multibillion-dollar bailout, it was Bear's big and wealthy counterparties who benefited. 
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, however, present an exponentially larger problem. They are unquestionably too big to fail. With $5.2 trillion in mortgages either on their books or guaranteed by them, their bailout was completely predictable. If those companies had been left for road kill, the mortgage market would have ground to a halt and a financial conflagration of historic and devastating proportions would have resulted. 
 Not all big banks get bailouts, of course. IndyMac Bank, one of the nation's largest savings and loans, was closed down by regulators last week. 
 Nevertheless, we are in dangerous territory today where bailouts are concerned, and not only because they feed Americans' suspicions that only the rich and powerful get help in our country. 
 Bailouts are also ticklish affairs because of the precarious state of our economy. As Americans are being asked to shore up reckless financial companies, they are also being punished by high oil prices, rocketing food costs and a stomach-churning slide in the buying power of their currency, the once-almighty dollar. 
 So asking Main Street to bail out Wall Street leads to this inevitable question: Weren't the financial folks the ones who helped create the mess we're in?
 Yet last week, regulators gave a nice boost to Wall Street and other members of the financial club. Christopher Cox, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, devised an emergency rule change for traders wishing to sell short the shares of 19 financial companies, including Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch, Fannie Mae, Bank of America and Citigroup. The rule states that if you haven't borrowed the shares you intend to sell short, you can't make the trade. It extends until July 29.
 There are several interesting aspects to this change. First, if the S.E.C. believes that shorting without previously borrowing shares is a problem in the market, why not apply the rule to all stocks? After seeing many of the 19 companies' stocks shoot higher after the plan was announced, executives at General Electric, the American International Group and MBIA, companies whose shares have also been pummeled in the financial crisis, must surely feel left out of the fun. 
 Once again, this emergency action smacks of the regulatory responses of recent years: do nothing to curb the deal-making mania while it is occurring, but when the rout comes along, hurry up and rein it in. 
 Of course, people prefer rising stock prices to declining ones. Wouldn't it be wonderful if shares never fell? But such actions call into question the claim that ours is a free-market system. More and more, our version of free markets holds that they are free only when asset values rise. When they fall, the markets must be managed. 
 HERE is a question: Might not the routs, which inevitably follow the manias, be less painful if things were not allowed to get wild and crazy on the upside? Might not the American people be better off with regulators who curb market enthusiasm -- whether in the form of errant lending or voracious, ill-considered deal making -- when it reaches manic levels, to protect against the free fall, and the bailouts, that ensue?
 No, no, no -- perish the thought, especially when the taxpayer is there to pick up the bill. 
 Which returns us to the dispiriting divide between those who receive help and those who don't. 
 ''The banks are too big to fail and the man in the street is too small to bail,'' said John C. Bogle, the founder of the Vanguard Group, the mutual funds giant, who is a philosopher of finance. 
 Mr. Bogle is working on his seventh book, titled ''Enough,'' which is scheduled to be published in November. He said he was disturbed by the extreme speculation that spread into the entire economy during the housing boom and that now threatens both consumers and investors. 
 ''I predicted last summer that this would be my 10th bear market,'' he said. ''But this one is different. The others were more marketlike, reflecting problems in the market, not problems in the society and the economy as this one does. As a result, we're in for a much more troublesome era than after the other big bear markets.'' 
 Mr. Bogle, like most investors, is an optimist at heart. But he believes that we must work to correct the growing imbalances in our country. ''We Americans are one lucky bunch,'' he said. ''But, let's face the truth. While the Declaration of Independence assures us that 'all men are created equal,' we'd best face the fact that we may be created equal but we are born into a society where inequality of family, of education and, yes, even opportunity begins as soon as we are born.''
 ''But the Constitution demands more,'' he adds. ''We the people are enjoined to form a more perfect union, to establish justice, ensure domestic tranquillity, and to promote the general welfare and to secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity. So it's up to each of us to summon our unique genius, our own power and our own personal magic to restore these values in today's imbalanced society.''
 Not a bad idea, bringing a little 18th-century enlightenment to this moment of 21st-century gloom. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John C. Bogle 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (85%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (71%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (85%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (85%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



488 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR: SUMMERSCAPES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: Pool Waters Run Deep

BYLINE: By POROCHISTA KHAKPOUR. 
Porochista Khakpour is the author of the novel ''Sons and Other Flammable Objects.''

 BODY:
IN the Los Angeles I grew up in it was always summer. But actual summer, from June to August, belonged to my mother, the swimmer, who gave up swimming when we came to America.
 My mother had been a multiple high school medalist in the 100-meter breaststroke in Tehran, and for her swimming remained a symbol of the prosperous old Iran of the '60s and '70s. Her well-to-do family was from Hamadan, which my nuclear-physicist father dubbed ''the Dallas of Iran,'' and they and all their friends played and swam at an elite country club, carefree in a way that I, a child of Islamic Revolution Iran, would never experience.
 By the time my family settled into our California exile, my mother had already convinced herself that the international language of horizontal bodies kicking in a bright blue tank would serve her better than her barely there textbook English. It was the one way she could connect with Americans, though she wouldn't do the actual connecting herself -- she felt her body was too old, or too scar-ridden from the Caesarean that had been fashionable among progressive Iranians. Instead, she handed the kickboard over to me. 
 ''The family pastime,'' my mother declared, speaking for my unathletic father as well. ''Our only sport.''
 ''Joses, no ways!'' I told my parents -- I was 5, and still rough in the American-expressions department -- but it had been decided.
 To make matters worse, my imagination was already filled with aquatic angst. Blame '80s Los Angeles: our tap water held deadly secrets; acid rain was a constant feature of weather small talk; and ''taking a dip'' at the beach meant dodging beer bottles and discarded diapers for just a thin layer of ocean wave to take you toenail-deep. Water, scary water, particularly for those of paranoid immigrant stock, was at best an element for drinking, preferably filled with corn syrup, carbonated and from a McDonald's fountain. 
 Plus, after having gone through half a dozen international cities in my first three years of life, I had given stability paramount significance. Mom's description of swimming -- feet off ground, face in water -- sounded suspiciously like another altered state.
 She pushed genetic imperative: ''It is in your blood.''
 Then immigrant sacrifice: ''It's not free after all!''
 Finally, she countered my fears with fears only swimming could counter: ''What if you fell off a boat? Or the ocean flooded our city? Your airplane crashed to bits in the water?''
 Since premature death was the alternative to not learning to swim, there I was, inmate of the cramped overly chlorinated indoor pool of our local Y.M.C.A. Mom, like a fierce guard, stationed herself at the glass chamber where parents could spy on their kids' lessons, and she remained there for years, her hands always on her hips. 
 On the first day, all I did was stand in the shallow end and stare mutely at the teacher, in deep mistrust of the water up to my chest. Mom's warnings persisted in my head: Do anything your teachers tell you! Do whatever the other kids do! But the clamorous echoes of kicking and gasping sounded to me like a horror movie. 
 The first summer went like that -- disastrously. Yet as I aged into double digits, and as I grew even less like my mother -- I was scrawny, pale, dressed always in funeral tones, with matching black imagination, reading furiously, endeavoring to become all brain -- I still made myself swim, and graduated from Polliwog (''youth beginner'') to Guppy (''youth advanced beginner''). I had to. I was heavily invested in the well-being of my parents. 
 I'd come to understand that neither my mother nor my dad had the ability I had to erase an accent; they didn't have the all-absolving unifiers of ''Kids Incorporated,'' cartwheels and clapping games. And while Dad could disappear into his mysterious world of work, what did the jock-debutante matriarch have? She was trapped in a house of immobile nerds, with only soap operas and department store catalogues and diet milkshakes.
 For her, I tried to conquer my admittedly very Guppy fear of the deep end. But out there thoughts could get lost just as fast as lurking menaces could drag one down. 
 And so during laps, the intangibles of family life would creep back up on me -- my parents' cluelessness and loneliness, the things that made me think of them as children for me to care for. And then I'd finally succumb and cry into the goggles, and then yank them off and cry into the blurry turquoise of the subterranean Y, and think about my father and mother and me as a galaxy of just three planets, hopelessly alone, revolving around and around and around ourselves, while circling epicenter America, a big beaming blue and white marble.
 ''The Earth revolves around the Sun, like all the other planets,'' Dad would correct me. ''Please, for us, learn something.''
 By my preteens I was a Minnow, and depressed. I continued to unload tears during laps. Thankfully, noncryers, particularly parents, could not tell the difference between cry-eye and chlorine eye.
 Eventually, I became a Fish.
 This was a big deal. A Fish could really swim. But my mother's insistence did not stop there -- there was still Flying Fish, Shark and Porpoise. Freestyle and backstroke were the beginning -- there was the breaststroke, the butterfly! There was treading water for a minute, three minutes, no, try five! There was diving, somersaulting, handstands, rescue swims! I undertook so much, and none of it came easy. 
 For my mother, though, I got to Porpoise by 13. Upon my graduation she, never one to hug, shook my hand. And then, rather miraculously, she left me alone. 
 I never figured out if she had decided that I wasn't champion material or if I had passed some rite of passage or what, but it was over. For much of the next decade and a half, there was a parlous distance between us, as if we were two retired assassins, just keeping an eye on each other in case.
 It wasn't until my late 20s, during one of those summers that I had slumped back to California due to New York unemployment, heartbreak and/or just plain exhaustion, that I found myself returning to my hometown Y.
 The first time I got back in the water, it felt different. I was fast, I was strong, I felt graceful, content. If I could just stay in the pool swimming laps mindlessly forever I'd be O.K. The only worry was knowing I'd get tired and the pool would close and I'd be back to the so-far-so-ugly real world and its infinite complications.
 But some things were still the same: the tears came and went, until my stomach knotted up and I could barely breathe. I climbed out slowly and indulged that startling transition, the old drunken stagger when you're renegotiating your land legs.
 And I looked over at the glass window and there was one mother sleeping with her mouth wide open. 
 I did not want to leave.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KATE O'CONNOR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SWIMMING (78%); SPORTS (78%); IMMIGRATION (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); ACID RAIN (63%); OCEANS (61%); RELIGION (54%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



489 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: I Married a Maori

BYLINE: Reviewed by ALISON McCULLOCH. 
Alison McCulloch, a former editor at the Book Review, lives in New Zealand.

 BODY:
COME ON SHORE AND WE WILL KILL AND EAT YOU ALL 
 A New Zealand Story. 
 By Christina Thompson. 
 270 pp. Bloomsbury. $24.99. 
 In June 1942, a United States naval convoy arrived in New Zealand, beginning a friendly invasion that would last two years and involve around 100,000 American soldiers and sailors. To help the visitors adapt, the New Zealand government published a booklet that made a useful point: ''New Zealanders have been well trained by your movies,'' it said, ''so we cotton (catch) on to most of your ordinary slang. But as we don't export films to Hollywood you won't know ours.'' That one-way flow of American culture has only gained momentum since then, which is why Christina Thompson's account of her own first visit to New Zealand strikes a jarring note. 
 It's sometime in the 1980s, and Thompson has stopped off on her way from Boston, her hometown, to graduate school in Australia. In a pub north of Auckland she meets a group of Maoris -- New Zealand's indigenous Polynesians -- having a beer after a day out diving for crayfish. ''I have often thought of that night as a contact encounter,'' she writes in ''Come on Shore and We Will Kill and Eat You All,'' explaining that '''contact' is what we call it when two previously unacquainted groups meet for the very first time.'' 
 Thompson persists with this meeting-of-alien-peoples theme as the tenuous link between the memoir part of her book, in which she is cast as a kind of explorer charting new cross-cultural territory in her relationship with a Maori (''I was small and blond, he was a 6-foot-2, 200-pound Polynesian. I had a Ph.D., he went to trade school''), and the history part (the European discovery and colonization of New Zealand). The late-20th-century pub incident, for example, segues into accounts of 18th-century encounters between Maoris and explorers like James Cook and Marc-Joseph Marion du Fresne. Both of them were ultimately killed by the Polynesians they met; Thompson married hers.
 Later, the story of Omai, the first Polynesian to set foot in England, is woven into an account of Thompson's return home with her new husband, ''for many people in Boston ... the first person they had ever met of his kind.'' In 1770s London, Omai was a hit -- with one young lady asserting that ''he is so polite, attentive & easy, that you would have thought he came from some foreign court.'' In modern-day Boston, Thompson's husband, known as Seven, attracted ''a similar sort of admiration,'' something she found surprising. ''He, after all, had little idea how things were done among people like my parents and could no more have been expected to know what passed for good manners among them than they would have known the protocol for being invited onto a Ngati Rehia marae.'' Really? I can see how middle-class Bostonians might not be steeped in the etiquette of the Maori meeting place, but there's been nowhere to hide from all things American -- even in New Zealand -- for quite a few decades now. 
 We don't learn here of Omai's fate, though in her fine account of Captain Cook's voyages (''The Trial of the Cannibal Dog''), Anne Salmond rounds off his remarkable tale. After two years entertaining scientists and society ladies, Omai joined Cook's final South Pacific journey, eventually making it back to his home near Tahiti. There, he was set up with a house, a garden and a collection of animals including horses, sheep, turkeys, cats and a monkey. A few years later, though, Omai succumbed to a fever, all but one of his animals also having died, even the monkey, which was killed falling out of a coconut palm. As for Seven, at book's end he is still in Massachusetts, where the family settled and Thompson works as editor of Harvard Review. She wonders sometimes if he gets homesick. '''Don't you want to go back to New Zealand?' I would ask him. 'Not really,' he always said.''
 Although Thompson's ''contact encounter'' parallels are strained, her observations about the enduring effects of colonization can be penetrating. She puts her vantage point of insider-outsider (she's never lived in New Zealand yet has an intimate connection with it) to good effect, tracing the genealogy of racial stereotypes and cutting through some of New Zealand's most cherished myths about itself. Like the one about how injustices of the past have been addressed, or that, unlike Australia, New Zealand is not racist. ''What, after all, does the cluster of social indicators that includes low life expectancy, poor health, high unemployment and low levels of educational attainment suggest, if not poverty?'' she asks. ''And what is the root cause of Maori poverty, if not colonization?'' Thompson now has interests on both sides of the postcolonial divide, feeling the dispossession suffered by her husband's (hence her children's) people as well as that perpetrated by her own. (''It was the Dakotas and Pennacooks and Pawtuckets who paid the price of our family's prosperity.'') 
 A difficulty with explorer stories, however, is that the voice of the explored is usually missing, and this is certainly the case here. Thompson explains it as a deliberate decision, a ''gesture of respect.'' ''It is not their story I am telling,'' she says of Seven's family, ''it is mine.'' Actually, it is both -- it's her story about herself and her story about them. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: The Maori chief Tooi in his costume as a chieftain, circa 1818. From the Missionary Papers. (Image from Hulton Archive/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NAVIES (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); FILM (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND (58%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) NEW ZEALAND (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (79%); ENGLAND (79%)

TITLE: Come on Shore and We Will Kill and Eat You All (Book)>; Come on Shore and We Will Kill and Eat You All (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



490 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 5108 words

HEADLINE: Can Leah Daughtry Bring Faith to the Party?

BYLINE: By DANIEL BERGNER. 
Daniel Bergner is a contributing writer to the magazine. His new book, ''A Map of Desire,'' will be published in January.

 BODY:
LEAH DAUGHTRY SLIPPED OFF HER STILETTO-HEEL SHOES at the House of the Lord Church in Brooklyn, stepped from a pastor's chair to the pulpit and shouted, ''I am on the rise!'' She wore a long black tunic with gold buttons that ran from her high collar almost to the carpet. Her graying hair was shorn tight to her dark brown scalp. She always preaches in bare feet in order to ''de-self,'' she had told me, and to let God's spirit and words rush through her unimpeded. ''I am on the rise!'' she erupted again.
 Dancing down front, in an aisle between pews, was a woman in an elaborate dress with a lace corsage whose breast cancer had been eradicated, Daughtry had said, through the prayers of her church sisters: ''The eggheads will say her chemotherapy worked, but everyone who uses chemotherapy isn't cured.'' The woman cried out exultantly, her voice barely audible above the surging of an electronic organ and the thrashing of drums and cymbals played by one of Daughtry's nephews, with another nephew, a 3-year-old, adding his own ecstatic beats with a set of sticks. ''I am on the rise to a place of dependence on the Lord!'' Daughtry screamed. 
 African-American, with little copper-rimmed glasses adorning an unlined round face, Daughtry is a part-time preacher and full-time political operative. She serves as chief of staff to Howard Dean, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee. In the spring of last year, Dean appointed her chief executive of the party's convention; though she will now be collaborating with Barack Obama's team, she is in charge of orchestrating the event next month in Denver -- of making sure that everything runs right, that buses have enough slots to park in, that people have enough hotel rooms to sleep in and that the millions watching the convention on TV are captivated and inspired by the four-day-long show. She is a mostly self-effacing manager on an immense scale. 
 But on many Sundays she is a Pentecostal preacher with her toes naked on the floor and her voice filled with a power that she says is not her own. Straight from the start of her sermon on a Sunday afternoon in June, she looked nearly helpless, beyond self-management, truly overcome by a force coursing through her; she wiped tears from her eyes with a small square of white cloth.
 In her positions as Dean's top aid and the convention's top official, Daughtry, who is 44 years old, is leading the Democratic Party's new mission to make religious believers -- particularly ardent Christian believers -- view the party and its candidates as receptive to, and often impelled by, the dictates of faith. She sparked this crusade, both to transfigure the party's image as predominantly secular and to take enough votes from the Republicans to win this year's presidential election, in the aftermath of George W. Bush's 2004 defeat of John Kerry. And in her vocation as a Pentecostal pastor she stands for faith in an extreme form. There is nothing equivocal about her belief. Hers is a religion not only of divine healing but of talking in tongues.
 Behind her as she preached, a simple wooden cross hung on a brick wall in the vaulted and sizable sanctuary of the church, which is headed by her father, Herbert Daughtry. A prison convert who served time in his early 20s for armed robbery and passing bad checks, Herbert Daughtry -- whose father founded the church and whose grandfather and great-grandfather were also ministers -- became the church's pastor 50 years ago, and today Leah was delivering the sermon as part of an anniversary celebration. Below the sanctuary, in the fellowship hall, a banner for slavery reparations proclaimed, ''They Owe Us.'' Fliers recounted Herbert Daughtry's arrest, a few weeks earlier, as he led marchers protesting the not-guilty verdict in the police killing of Sean Bell, an unarmed black man. His ministry has always combined consuming spirituality with black liberation theology -- the theology Jeremiah Wright invoked this spring to defend his controversial sermons -- and zealous political activism. Leah holds these forces within her.
 Usually she preaches to her own congregation of about 20 in Southwest Washington. Her flock meets in a communal room in the depths of her high-rise condominium, near the exercise room and the garage. They push aside folding tables and set up folding chairs, and all begin to sing and dance, to stagger and sob and ''shabach, to cry out loudly to the Lord,'' as one congregant described it, and often to be overwhelmed by the Holy Ghost, so that soon the voices are not producing words in any known language. They are, instead, living out a version of a miracle that is rendered in the Book of Acts and that gives Leah's denomination its name. At the feast of the Pentecost, on the 50th day after Easter, the Holy Ghost took such complete possession of Jesus's disciples that they spoke, the Bible says, ''in other tongues.'' Pentecostals in the midst of worship are frequently so possessed that their services are filled with anarchic, alien sounds, with outpourings and prayers comprehensible only to God.
 The spirit wasn't taking quite such hold in the church of Leah's father on the Sunday of the anniversary; still, the sermon she gave in searing tones stirred the congregation to yell back in affirmation and turn palms to the ceiling in supplication, and the message seemed to seize control of Daughtry herself, to set her trembling. Her subject was the prophet Deborah, who, in Daughtry's telling of the biblical story, left the ease of the visionary role that came naturally to her and ventured into battle for Israel. ''The only way God's work would get done is if she rose from her comfortable place!'' Daughtry pronounced. ''God is challenging us to rise! God wants us in that unfamiliar place! Even though I'm not comfortable, I'm going to rise up!'' Despite her pastoring, Daughtry is a fiercely private woman. Her sermon alluded to her own unease with the measure of public attention she has received as she spearheads the Democratic effort to woo the religious and win votes in November. Yet the task is not optional. It is, as she sees it, her way of fulfilling a generations-old family covenant with God.
 WHEN HOWARD DEAN BECAME CHAIRMAN of the Democratic National Committee in early 2005, Daughtry, who had been working as the chief of staff to Dean's predecessor, Terry McAuliffe, approached Dean with the newly arrived results of a poll she commissioned to try to sort out John Kerry's defeat in 2004. She didn't expect to stay on during Dean's tenure, but she wanted Dean to reckon with what the survey of voters in eight battleground states had found: that ''nearly half of the electorate,'' as the Democratic pollster, Cornell Belcher, explained in a memo accompanying his results, ''place as much or more weight on their religious faith as they do other conventional issue considerations when deciding how to vote.''
 She had reason to wonder whether Dean would pay much attention. During his own 2004 presidential campaign, Dean had exposed his biblical ignorance by naming Job as his favorite book in the New Testament. The New Republic called him ''one of the most secular candidates to run for president in modern history.'' But whether because the electoral math was so persuasive or because Daughtry's arguments about reaching out to the religious complemented his own strategy as party leader to leave no part of the electorate ignored or because he himself was compelled, as he has claimed, by his own privately held Christian faith, Dean was taken with Daughtry's thinking. ''She held the missing piece of the puzzle,'' he told me not long ago, excitement still in his voice as he recalled her presentation of Belcher's report and her ideas. ''Belcher understood why people vote the way they do,'' Dean went on to say, sounding as though the information Daughtry brought him hit with the strength of revelation. And about the religious outreach she envisioned, he said, ''She had a way to connect with people's inner core.''
 He asked her to stay on as chief of staff and backed her plan to hire a team, to be known as Faith in Action, that would help the party to hear, and to be heard by, voters of deep religious conviction. Gradually she put together the F.I.A. group that has met weekly at the Democratic National Committee's headquarters in Washington: three evangelicals, a Catholic, a Muslim and a Jew, all with backgrounds blending work in religion and politics. (F.I.A., Daughtry says, will very likely be melded now with the Obama campaign for the coming months, then recommence on its own after the election.) Though Muslims and Jews aren't such vast constituencies, they could make some difference in winning the White House, and Dean and Daughtry are also determined to honor the party's image of itself, in all aspects, as a diversely populated ''big tent.'' But it is among the nation's 59 million adult evangelicals and 54 million Catholics that the Democrats hope to lure sufficient numbers of voters who previously chose Republicans to transform the presidential election.
 By a margin of 78 percent to 22 percent, white evangelicals, who comprise at least 80 percent of the country's evangelical populace, chose Bush over Kerry in 2004. The spread represented a Republican surge of as many as 10 points from the election of 2000 and made the white evangelical majority that voted for Jimmy Carter in 1976, the last time this sector of the population picked a Democrat for president, appear all the more remotely and permanently part of the past. The recent Republican claim on the Catholic electorate is much more tenuous -- after barely losing among Catholics in 2000, Bush won 52 percent of those voters in 2004 -- but it is no less troubling to Democrats, given the key electoral states like Pennsylvania that are in play. And Daughtry and Belcher (who, when I asked about his own convictions, laughed and said, ''No one would call me particularly religious, but this is a strategic imperative'') see a debilitating problem within a significant portion of the Democratic Party. With figures like Bill Clinton standing as exceptions, there has been uneasiness, even in religious candidates and officeholders, about talking in terms of faith or moral values. ''We Democrats tend to be too cerebral,'' Daughtry told me in her sleek Denver office, then added that part of the reticence is due to the big-tent ideal, to a reluctance to alienate nonbelievers and people of differing faiths. 
 Yet Barack Obama defies this tendency and declaims his Christianity. He embodies what appears to be a nascent Democratic trend, one that was manifest as well by Hillary Clinton during the primaries and one that is evident in Congress with the Faith Working Group started in 2005 by the soon-to-be House speaker, Nancy Pelosi. Before the Kentucky primary in May, Obama's staff sent out fliers that showed the candidate standing in front of a large and luminous cross. The text recounted the ''day Obama felt a beckoning of the spirit and accepted Jesus Christ into his life.'' Obama has declared that ''secularists are wrong when they ask believers to leave their religion at the door before entering into the public square. Frederick Douglass, Abraham Lincoln, William Jennings Bryan, Dorothy Day, Martin Luther King -- indeed, the majority of great reformers in American history -- were not only motivated by faith but repeatedly used religious language to argue for their cause.'' Daughtry couldn't be more pleased. ''As a pastor,'' she said, ''I think it's wonderful. And as a voter, I want to know what makes the candidate tick; this is a core part of his understanding.''
 It is the core part of Daughtry's. ''We were raised,'' she said, referring to her brother and two sisters, ''to believe that we would only experience success -- success in the sense of contentment, peace -- to the extent that we were faithful to the covenant made between our great-great-grandfather and God.'' The covenant, her father told me, is ''to struggle with and for the people, to make life better for the human family.'' And Daughtry said that, in politics ''at this point in time,'' bringing about triumph for the Democratic Party is the best way to keep that promise. Her work is God's wish. 
 OBAMA'S OPEN EMBRACE OF CHRISTIANITY could well help him in November, and it will very likely lessen, to some extent, the perception of the party as being averse to faith. But Daughtry's mission, directed from within Democratic headquarters in Washington and the convention offices in Denver, is essential to transforming the party's reputation. So E. Terri LaVelle, an evangelical with F.I.A. who said, within a few minutes of our sitting down to talk, ''On the last Saturday in February 1973, I accepted the Lord Jesus Christ as my savior,'' has traveled to evangelical events around the country, seeking to strike up relationships with leaders like the megachurch pastors Rick Warren and Joel Hunter and hoping that, at the very least, the party's new attention and respect, its desire to listen and engage with evangelical issues, including abortion, is recognized in resonant ways. The aim, realistically, has been not to win endorsements but to alter thinking, both immediately and over the long term. During the 2004 campaign, by contrast, Terry McAuliffe, was introduced to Warren, whose congregation numbers more than 20,000 and whose books have sold millions. According to ''The Party Faithful,'' a book by Amy Sullivan, a Time magazine editor, McAuliffe put out his hand and said, with a blank gaze: ''Nice to meet you, Rick. And what do you do?''
 John Kelly, a Catholic and another member of F.I.A., has trained the communications directors of the party's state organizations in approaching the religious media. And when in April the National Catholic Register published an op-ed article headlined, ''The Soul of the Democratic Party Is Still Secular,'' Kelly made sure the paper ran his reply: ''Democrats have been and continue to be people of faith. . . . The core values of the Democratic Party are in line with key Catholic teachings -- creating a society that meets the needs of the poor, caring for the sick, supporting families, promoting peace and sustaining our environment for the health and life of us all.'' Along with the party's new emphasis on ''abortion reduction,'' Kelly's list of values exemplifies an F.I.A. mantra: ''We can always find common ground.'' The party may be at irreconcilable odds with conservative Catholics and evangelicals about keeping abortion legal and readily available, but the Democratic hope is that these religious constituencies will credit the party with battling abortion, genuinely, in its own way; that they will join with the party to support child-care programs and perhaps even policies promoting contraception; and that the devout, especially young voters among them, will be drawn to a Democratic agenda that addresses profound religious concerns about the war in Iraq, the crisis in Darfur, economic injustice and global warming -- the focus of an evangelical movement known as ''creation care.''
 Richard Land, who has long been the president of the Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission of the Southern Baptist Convention, the public-policy arm of the nation's largest evangelical denomination, with 16 million members, credits the Democratic Party for reaching out respectfully to the born-again. ''It's certainly a better approach than that of the recent past,'' he told me. But the idea that evangelicals, even young evangelicals, are going to subordinate their commitment to protecting life from the point of conception is, he argued, a notion born of Democratic blindness. ''I don't think the pro-choice community has ever really conceived of the anguish and moral outrage experienced by pro-life people over the issue,'' he said, then referred to a poll showing that 18-to-29-year-old born-again Christians are more conservative on abortion than their elders. The young, he insisted, may be demanding ''an expansion of the agenda'' to include peace, poverty and the environment, but they do not want ''an exchange of agendas'' that would diminish the absolute priority of defending fetal life.
 Land does acknowledge, though, that in November the Democrats might ''peel off some votes at the margins'' of the evangelical constituency, if only because John McCain is less appealing to this community than George W. Bush. And John Green, a senior fellow at the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life, suggests that the margins -- of conservative Catholics as well as evangelicals who might be persuaded by Democratic outreach -- could make the difference this fall as they did in crucial state contests in 2006. 
 To forge bonds with the faithful, the party has not relied solely on its six F.I.A. members. Daughtry also assembled a 60-member Faith Advisory Council, consisting mostly of leading representatives of the clergy, to help make it clear that the Democrats care about religion. She oversaw the purchase of radio ads promoting the party on Christian stations during the 2006 elections. Her role is personal as well as programmatic. She helps Dean lace his speeches with, as she puts it, ''the language of values rather than what Democrats are known for, which is facts and figures.'' When Donna Brazile, who ran Al Gore's presidential campaign and is now a Democratic National Committee member, called, wanting to include a strong woman from the Bible in an address she was preparing to give at a Catholic university, Daughtry supplied her with the story of Deborah. 
 F.I.A. has also financed the faith outreach of state parties, sometimes in striking ways. In Alabama, the pro-life party chairman was given F.I.A. money to publish a ''Faith and Values Voters Guide'' in local newspapers just before Election Day in 2006. The 12-page insert provided the religious narratives of statewide Democratic candidates -- ''I was richly blessed in my life with parents who raised me in a Christian home. . . .'' -- and concluded with a Democratic ''covenant for the future.'' The covenant pledged to ''require public schools to offer Bible literacy as part of their curriculum'' and made at least two vows that run counter to positions of the national party: to ''pass a constitutional amendment confirming that all life is a gift from God and should be protected; and that life begins at conception'' and to ''defeat any efforts to redefine marriage or provide the benefits of marriage to a same-sex union.''
 Daughtry sounded surprised when I read her these vows. Though she is a biblical literalist who sees no problem with teaching creation theory side by side with evolution -- ''For me, the Bible is history'' -- she, following the teaching of her father's church, is also pro-choice. ''God allows us to choose in the biggest matter,'' she said, ''whether to accept Him in our lives. How then can we take away choice on other profound issues? We don't believe the government should interfere.'' Hearing Alabama's covenant, she said right away that F.I.A. has not vetted everything the state parties have done with its money. Then she leaned heavily on the poles of the big tent: ''The wonderful thing about the Democratic Party is that we have room for all kinds of opinions.'' 
 It may sometimes seem to voters that the Democratic Party is stretching its soul too thin in an effort to be everything to everyone. Yet to listen to Mara Vanderslice, a born-again political consultant, is to view a Democratic alliance with ardent Christians as a natural match. A tireless 33-year-old blonde who left her family's nondogmatic Unitarian Universalist tradition to be baptized, in her early 20s, by full immersion in Rock Creek in Washington and to declare herself an evangelical, Vanderslice was thwarted, when she was a Kerry campaign staff member in 2004, in trying to persuade the candidate to employ his faith to his advantage. Soon after, she helped to formulate the poll Daughtry brought to Dean, then ran a small consulting firm, Common Good Strategies, that shaped religious messages for successful Democratic campaigns in 2006 -- for governorships and the U.S. Senate -- in Kansas, Ohio, Michigan and Pennsylvania. She sees herself as part of a swelling movement of young evangelicals committed to causes like social justice, and in her two-room office in Washington with posters of Martin Luther King and Archbishop Oscar Romero on the walls, she talked with me excitedly about the Matthew 25 Network, a political action committee she recently started, the first such group, she said, to harness the power of faith to the Democratic Party. She told me about the Believers for Barack T-shirts that would be sold on the Matthew 25 Web site. ''Imagine,'' an advertisement for the group reads, ''a president who stands for this,'' and then the text quotes from the 25th chapter of Matthew's gospel: ''For I was hungry and you gave me something to eat. . . . I needed clothes and you clothed me, I was sick and you looked after me, I was in prison and you came to visit me.'' Speaking about the way the teachings of Jesus could draw more and more young believers to progressive politics, she could hardly contain herself. ''This,'' she said, ''could go viral.''
 ''THERE WERE THE YORUBAS dressed in all-white,'' Daughtry said, thinking back to the 1970s, to the disparate array of black New Yorkers who gathered at her father's House of the Lord Church to fight injustice. ''There were the black nationalists and separatists. The black polygamists who were trying to model their lifestyle on African ways. The Black Hebrews with their long beards, walking with their wooden staffs.'' In 1976, when a 15-year-old African-American, Randolph Evans, was fatally shot by a police officer in Brooklyn, Daughtry's father, despite death threats, led demonstrations and boycotts for a year in the borough's downtown, until businesses agreed to finance a scholarship program in Evans's honor. Leah, who was raised according to a strict religious code that forbid females to wear pants, lipstick or makeup, took part in the protests at the age of 13. Her eyes brightened when she recalled those demonstrations and the assorted groups that joined together to give them strength, just as her voice took on extra passion when she discussed black liberation theology and the writing of James Cone. 
 It was this writing that Jeremiah Wright, Obama's longtime pastor, cited to support the sermons that led Obama to cut ties with Wright in April. Daughtry didn't want to comment on the sudden distance Obama put between himself and his pastor, except to say that it pained her to see such a meaningful and private relationship come to such a public and distorted end. But she didn't put any distance between herself and Cone's book ''A Black Theology of Liberation,'' which she suggested I read and which relies on the words of Malcolm X to make its religious arguments. ''Some may find it disconcerting,'' she replied, when I asked if she feared driving away voters by standing behind ideas that could be deemed radical. ''But they are far outnumbered by Americans who are concerned about the disparities. At the basis of black liberation theology is the understanding that God has a special place in His heart for those at the bottom of the ladder.'' All colors are clinging there, she said, and went on to talk about the hegemony of corporations, the oppression of the people. ''The right of self-determination is the concern. If I do all the right things, I will live a full and abundant life -- this should be true. But it's not. Something's wrong with the equation. Americans may not call this liberation theology, but they have the sense that things aren't fair.''
 Daughtry's eyes and voice were animated, too, when she spoke about a mentoring program for young women and men that she directed at her father's church for three years in the mid-1990s, between Clinton-era posts in the U.S. Office of Personnel Management and as assistant secretary for administration and management in the Department of Labor. She was especially wistful about the work she did with the daughters of H.I.V.-infected parents. She didn't talk with the same depth of emotion about her mainstream political career, work she gravitated toward after graduating from Dartmouth College, where she campaigned for Jesse Jackson in his attempt to win the Democratic nomination in 1984. ''I'm an inside person now,'' she said ruefully in her Denver office. ''I'm a political operative.'' And she allowed that she sometimes asks God, ''Why have you put me in this inside role?''
 But there is no sense in trying to escape, she said. ''It's the story of Jonah.'' She sounded at once uplifted and resigned. ''There's no point running from God. He'll find you.''
 AT A PALE WOOD CONFERENCE TABLE at Democratic headquarters in Washington, after a carefully ecumenical prayer delivered by E. Terri LaVelle, Daughtry listened quietly as the F.I.A. members gave their weekly updates during a team meeting in June. John Kelly reported that a former Reagan administration official, a Catholic who had endorsed Obama, was recently denied communion at church, an approach taken by some clergy against pro-choice candidates and their supporters, including John Kerry in 2004, but one that, Kelly added reassuringly, was meeting with dismay in the Catholic community. Soon Daughtry steered the conversation toward the convention. She reminded everyone that they were still looking for the right Hispanic clergy figure to take the stage among the speakers at the convention's opening interfaith service. 
 This will be the first Democratic convention to start with a religious service, another sign meant to prove that the party is serious about belief, and the F.I.A. members, who have worked for months on how best to inject faith into the convention, want to be sure the gathering is led, and well-attended, by a wide range of the religious. (This convention will also be the party's first to include a caucus for people of faith alongside delegate caucuses devoted to the issues of various ethnic groups, women, the disabled and the L.G.B.T. -- the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender -- community.) Daughtry turned to F.I.A.'s Jewish member. ''Don't you have any Hispanic rabbis?'' Everyone laughed.
 ''Are we going to ask clergy to wear their garb?'' one evangelical wanted to know. There was some discussion: the service would be held in a theater, in neutral, secular space, so as not to offend anyone; the question was how to make the televised event look sacred. 
 Daughtry directed the group in soft tones, and in my days with her I never saw her anywhere near a state of panic. Despite recent reports of fund-raising shortfalls, she said she was sure the convention would go off smoothly. Both she and Dean pointed out that similar reports were made before the conventions of 2004 and 2000.
 Earlier, quoting a verse from First Corinthians, she told me that God had granted her the ''gifts of administration.'' This, she explained, is her first and most natural calling: to keep things organized, to make things happen from behind the scenes. And she let it be known that she doesn't appreciate the fact that the media -- partly because they are ''fascinated with the Pentecostal thing,'' she said with subtle annoyance -- has begun to focus its mostly positive attention on her, to push her from the background to the forefront. ''The intellectuals, the egghead types -- Pentecostalism is incomprehensible to them. They don't understand the spirit-driven. I can make the trains run on time, and they have a hard time reconciling that with my religion.''
 Daughtry herself has no trouble reconciling these elements of her life; to her, they aren't opposed at all, as God is the source of her managerial talents. Yet she can seem painfully conflicted about many of the things she says she has been called to do -- not only about working as an insider, and not only about dealing with the media's gaze, but about standing in a pulpit to preach. She doesn't want attention from a congregation any more than she wants it from the public. As the child of a preacher, she grew up, she said, ''in a bubble. Every part of your life is on display. Our report cards were read aloud in church.'' She covets her privacy now. Her Washington church started as a Bible-study group and was reconfigured with Daughtry at a portable pulpit set in front of the folding chairs only when the members asked her to deliver God's word and when she gave in to the thought that this was God's request. ''I was quite shocked,'' her father recalled, ''when she said she had the call to preach. But it's a call that emanates from beyond ourselves.'' On the days before taking the pulpit, she struggles to prepare herself, to ''move out of who I understand myself to be,'' she said, ''and into who God wants me to be.'' Afterward, she retreats swiftly. Following a sermon I watched her give as a guest pastor in Denver, she didn't linger to chat with congregants during the church's reception hour, as most clergy do. She was going home to her apartment, she said, to be alone for the rest of the day. The stylish high-heel shoes she slides off before preaching may be her one attention-getting vanity. Otherwise, she seems to wish, to some degree, to disappear, to dream, perhaps, of once again running a mentoring program at the House of the Lord in Brooklyn. 
 But her confidence that she is taking the right paths is all the stronger, she explained, ''because I was called to do things so different from what I would do if left to my own devices.'' And for a short while, as she stood in the pulpit of her father's Brooklyn church in June, the force of destiny seemed to rush through her. ''I am on the rise!'' she cried out again in her black tunic and bare feet. ''When you go to an unfamiliar place, you have no landmarks, you have only God to rely on!'' 
 The drums and the electronic organ, along with an electronic keyboard, reached a thrilling clamor. Her acceptance of God's call to lead, to make herself visible and to make herself heard, converged with her commitment to liberation theology, as she exhorted herself and the congregation: ''I am on the rise! I am the power and not the pig! I am on the rise! I am the master and not the mastered! I am on the rise!'' Her voice seemed to hold no doubt that she was carrying out God's plan. ''I am on the rise! I am on the rise! I am on the rise!'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALESSANDRA PETLIN) (MM24)
Leah Daughtry at the House of the Lord Church, which is led by her father, the Rev. Herbert Daughtry, far right with his hand on her head. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM27)
 As chief executive of the Democratic Convention in August, Daughtry decides who sits where. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALESSANDRA PETLIN FOR 28 THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); BREAST CANCER (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); APPOINTMENTS (66%)

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



491 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: SOMALI KILLINGS OF AID WORKERS IMPERIL RELIEF

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN; Two Somali journalists contributed reporting from Mogadishu, Somalia.

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya 

 BODY:
At a time of drought, skyrocketing food prices, crippling inflation and intensifying street fighting, many of the aid workers whom millions of Somalis depend on for survival are fleeing their posts -- or in some cases the country.
 They are being driven out by what appears to be an organized terror campaign. Ominous leaflets recently surfaced on the bullet-pocked streets of Mogadishu, Somalia's ruin of a capital, calling aid workers ''infidels'' and warning them that they will be methodically hunted down. Since January, at least 20 aid workers have been killed, more than in any year in recent memory. Still others have been abducted.
 The deliberate assault on aid workers is a chilling new dimension to the crisis in Somalia that has unfolded over the past 17 years but has grown increasingly violent as outside forces, including the United States military, have turned a civil war into a more international conflict.
 United Nations officials are especially worried by the recent attacks because they say Somalia is heading toward another full-blown famine. Without professional workers to distribute food or tend to the sick, the country could sink into a catastrophe reminiscent of the early 1990s, when hundreds of thousands of people starved. 
 ''This couldn't be happening at a worse time,'' said Peter Smerdon, a spokesman for the United Nations World Food Program.
 The attacks on aid workers -- including Westerners, Somalis working for Western organizations and Somalis working for local groups -- have escalated this month. Two weeks ago a high-ranking United Nations official was shot as he stepped out of a mosque. Last Sunday, a trucking agent in charge of transporting emergency rations was killed. On Thursday, three elders who were helping local aid workers distribute food at a displaced persons camp were shot to death while drinking tea. 
 In response, the United Nations is pulling some employees out of dangerous urban areas and cutting back on operations across the country. Somalia needs hundreds of millions of dollars of emergency aid, but donors are getting skittish because the attacks on aid workers threaten to make relief projects untenable. 
 A plane with at least a dozen Somali aid workers left Mogadishu on Friday. Several workers said it was the leaflets that scared them away.
 ''These people are serious,'' said one Somali aid professional who is now hiding with her family outside Mogadishu. 
 The leaflets were tacked onto walls and scattered on streets in Mogadishu about 10 days ago. ''We know all the so-called aid workers,'' they read. ''We promise to kill them, wherever they are.''
 Abductions are also increasing. Seventeen aid workers have been kidnapped this year, with 13 still in captivity.
 It is not clear who is behind the terror campaign or if it is connected to previous assassinations of journalists and intellectuals. The leaflets and accompanying e-mail messages sent to several aid organizations seem to signify a new degree of organization.
 Some of the warnings were signed by a little-known group called the Martyrs of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, which takes its name from the notorious Jordanian terrorist killed by American forces in Iraq in 2006. The group said the aid workers were conspiring with ''infidels,'' and Western diplomats said the killings might be intended to make Somalia seem so chaotic that Western countries would abandon it. 
 But several factions of Somalia's Islamist movement, which is fighting an intense guerrilla war against the government, have condemned the attacks.
 Sheik Muktar Robow Abu Monsur, a leader of the Shebab insurgent group, said Islamic militants were actually guarding food convoys. United Nations officials have mixed feelings about the Shebab, saying that some factions are violently anti-Western while others recently helped free two kidnapped aid workers. 
 Some Western security analysts theorize that in the violent murkiness that has overtaken the country, unsavory elements within the Somali government may be killing aid workers to discredit Islamist opposition groups and draw in United Nations peacekeepers, who may be the government's last hope for survival.
 The government admits that it desperately needs peacekeepers. But it denies that it is attacking aid workers to get them.
 ''It's obvious who's doing this,'' said Abdi Awaleh Jama, a Somali ambassador at large. ''It's hard-liner Islamists who hate the West. They are forces of darkness, not forces of light.''
 Whoever the culprit is, the ramifications are huge. Somalia is perennially needy, with some of the highest malnutrition rates in the world. Aid work has never been easy, because of security issues, and Western aid workers have mostly stayed out of Somalia for years, entrusting emergency relief and development work to local staff members. 
 Even before the death threats and assassinations, Somali aid professionals were struggling to reach the 2.6 million people who need assistance. But that number could soon swell to 3.5 million, nearly half the population. Rainfall has been scant this year. The fall harvest is expected to be disastrous. And some United Nations officials are predicting a major famine within weeks. 
 ''There's going to be deaths,'' Mr. Smerdon of the World Food Program said. ''It's just a question of how wide-scale.''
 Somalia's ills are part of a bigger crisis sweeping the drought-prone, war-prone Horn of Africa. With global food prices rising faster than they have in decades, millions of people who were just getting by can no longer afford rice, wheat or other basics. 
 Among the hardest hit are those in Somalia's dilapidated cities, like Mogadishu, where prices have shot up by as much as 500 percent and where people depend on buying food instead of growing it. But Mogadishu has become a nightmare for aid workers -- and just about everyone else. Suicide bombs, roadside bombs, mortar attacks and wild street battles are the norm. Even traveling the few miles from the airport to the main hospital is a life-and-death gamble because the road is so heavily mined.
 ''Nobody knows where is safe,'' said Mark Bowden, the coordinator of United Nations humanitarian operations for Somalia.
 He said that the United Nations was trying to talk to insurgents. ''But the people you can talk to,'' he said, ''are not the people you need to talk to.''
 Somalia has been a killing field since 1991, when clan militias brought down the central government and carved the country into fiefs. Warlords fought over every port, fishing pier and telephone pole that could turn a profit.
 In the summer of 2006 an Islamist movement ran the warlords out of Mogadishu and established control over much of the country. Mogadishu was peaceful for the first time in years. But the United States and Ethiopia accused the Islamists of being connected to Al Qaeda. 
 In December 2006, Ethiopian troops invaded. The Ethiopians, backed up by American intelligence and airstrikes, pushed out the Islamist forces and installed Somalia's weak transitional government in the capital. 
 But the Islamists have regrouped. They have received help from foreign jihadists, Western diplomats say, and embraced hit-and-run tactics.
 The American military has continued to hunt down terrorist suspects and has launched several airstrikes in Somalia, stoking more anti-Western feelings, including against aid workers. 
 Meanwhile, Mogadishu has been consumed by urban warfare that in the past 18 months has killed thousands of civilians, displaced more than a millionand leveled entire city blocks. 
 United Nations officials are trying to broker a truce. In June, one Islamist faction agreed to a cease-fire. But it does not seem to mean much, because the violence continues to rage. 
 At first, the killings of the aid workers seemed to be a mistake, a case of wrong place, wrong time. In January, three staff members of Doctors Without Borders were killed by a roadside bomb in southern Somalia. Some Western security analysts initially thought the bomb had been intended for someone else.
 But as the weeks passed and more aid workers were cut down, including four drivers hauling emergency rations for the World Food Program, it was clear there was a pattern -- and a message.
 ''It's unprecedented,'' Mr. Smerdon said.
 There is no exact figure for the number of aid workers in Somalia. The United Nations employs about 800 for projects in Somalia, and the International Committee of the Red Cross several hundred. Counting local groups, there are probably several thousand people involved in health, food, education and other aid work.
 To better protect the aid community, United Nations officials are scrambling to raise money for more planes, more radios and more security guards.
 But Jurg Montani, who leads the Red Cross delegation to Somalia, said donors were becoming more reluctant to contribute. 
 ''They're asking how long can we go on if humanitarian workers are getting kidnapped and killed?'' he said.
 Mr. Montani said that the country had always been one of the hardest places in the world to work. In Somalia, he said, ''you don't do what you need to do; you do what you can.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Aid workers distributed water last month near Mogadishu, Somalia. At least 20 aid workers have been killed in Somalia this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENNETH LAVELLE/MeDECINS SANS FRONTIeRES)
 Somalis buried Osman Ali Ahmed, of the United Nations Development Program, this month after he was killed by gunmen. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSTAFA ABDI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORKPLACE VIOLENCE (91%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); STARVATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); FAMINE (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (77%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (59%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (95%); NAIROBI, KENYA (79%) SOMALIA (99%); KENYA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



492 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; BAILOUT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Coming to the Rescue Of a Cultural Asset

BYLINE: By DAVID HOLMBERG

DATELINE: MILLBURN 

 BODY:
 THE latest production at the Paper Mill Playhouse, ''Little Shop of Horrors,'' closed recently after a successful run, at about the same time the theater ended a long run of financial horrors.
 The Paper Mill, an institution here for 70 years and Millburn's main cultural asset, is finally pulling itself out of a fiscal crisis that threatened its existence.
 In June, after months of negotiations that focused on several possible approaches to saving the historic theater, the five-member Millburn Township Committee voted unanimously to buy the Paper Mill's land and buildings -- ''a prime piece of property,'' said Sandra H. Haimoff, the mayor of Millburn. 
 The price was $9 million, and the township will rent the land and buildings back to the theater -- for a dollar a year the first two years -- under a 75-year lease, allowing it to pay off a $3.5 million bank loan. That loan was taken to cover the theater's $2.8 million deficit, which almost caused it to close in the spring of 2007.
 Daniel Baer, a Township Committee member and former mayor, said the bailout plan was put together after the committee considered alternatives like seeking funding from the county, or giving the theater a loan. 
 ''We thoroughly investigated every alternative,'' Mr. Baer said. ''We recognized the theater as an economic engine for the entire town. During the process, I talked to merchants who said that 20 to 25 percent of their business was connected to the Paper Mill.''
 Because of the theater's crucial municipal role, ''there was never any question of letting them go under,'' said Timothy P. Gordon, the town's business administrator for 23 years. ''That never crossed anybody's mind.'' 
 But building a consensus on exactly how to resurrect the Paper Mill took longer than expected. One committee member expressed particular concern about the length of the lease, and many other details of the bailout plan were carefully scrutinized.
 The total amount of lease payments over the 75 years will be $19.5 million, with $6 million in payments due in the first 30 years. Mr. Baer noted that the plan gives the theater a 60-day grace period before it could be considered in default on payments; if that were to happen, the buildings and land would revert to the township. 
 Mr. Baer said that would not be a problem for the township. ''What's the worst thing that could happen?'' he said. ''You own valuable land in Millburn.''
 The deficit that almost sank the theater came about after 15 years in which audiences dwindled at the 1,200-seat venue.
 ''It will take five years to regrow the audience,'' said Mark W. Jones, 61, the theater's executive director, who played a major role in its salvation. 
 Mr. Jones traced the decline of Paper Mill audiences to the early 1990s. He said that in the 1980s many suburban residents had been scared away from New York's theater offerings because of fear of crime. 
 But when those concerns eased in the next decade, he said, ''people went back to Broadway.'' Subscriptions at the Paper Mill declined; historically, about two-thirds of the theater's audience members have been subscribers.
 With the audiences fading, the Paper Mill hired Michael Gennaro from the Steppenwolf Theater Company in Chicago. Mr. Gennaro brought an edgy sensibility to the musical-based, family-oriented playhouse, situated in a soothing, sylvan setting in the town of Millburn. ''There was nothing wrong with what he did,'' Mr. Jones said, ''and it appealed to some people. But not to the general public.''
 Mr. Gennaro stayed about three years, and his ambitious theatrical mix further diminished attendance, Paper Mill officials said. Mark S. Hoebee, who has been at the Paper Mill for eight years and was the associate artistic director under Mr. Gennaro, was recently named artistic director by Mr. Jones. His mission, he said, is to restore the Paper Mill as a ''guardian of traditional American musical theater.''
 Both Mr. Jones and Mr. Hoebee spoke of their desire to refine the Paper Mill's creative agenda once it has fully recovered economically. ''If not experimentally, then developmentally'' the Paper Mill will continue to be an evolving institution, said Mr. Hoebee, a onetime director and choreographer.
 Or as Mr. Jones put it, ''Just because we've stabilized the organization, it doesn't mean that we're done here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ON WITH THE SHOW: Mark W. Jones, the Paper Mill's executive director. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOYCE DOPKEEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); THEATER (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); PAPER & PACKAGING (58%)

ORGANIZATION: PAPER MILL PLAYHOUSE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



493 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL BMW HYDROGEN 7; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: From BMW, a Sedan Fueled by the Future

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
LONG lists of restrictions are familiar to journalists who drive press cars from automakers' fleets: no smoking, no racing, no loaning the keys to your fugitive brother-in-law. 
 But one prohibition placed on the BMW Hydrogen 7, a 760Li luxury liner modified to run on hydrogen in addition to its normal gasoline diet, was an eye-opener: The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey would not permit the car to be driven through the Lincoln or Holland Tunnels or on the lower level of the George Washington Bridge. 
 It seems that BMW drew the Port Authority's attention when it began pumping liquid hydrogen into its small test fleet of dual-fuel sedans in Port Jersey, not far from the docks where BMWs disembark after their voyage from Germany. And historically speaking, it's fair to say that the last hydrogen-dependent German flagship that docked in New Jersey left a lasting impression. 
 So while BMW designed the Hydrogen 7 to be as explosion-resistant as any gasoline car, memories of the Hindenburg zeppelin cause misunderstandings among consumers and bureaucrats, a company spokesman acknowledged. 
 As with hydrogen cars from Ford, General Motors, Honda and others, showcasing hydrogen's carbon-free potential is the BMW's reason for being. But unlike far-costlier fuel-cell cars -- which generate electricity through a chemical reaction of gaseous hydrogen and oxygen -- the BMW runs on either liquid hydrogen or gasoline in a familiar internal-combustion engine. 
 When it is running on hydrogen, water vapor is the main byproduct, as shown by a damp spot beneath the bumper when the car idles. Emissions of carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxides are nearly zero, with just traces resulting from the engine's lubricating oil and the heat of combustion.
 BMW built its demonstration fleet of 100 Hydrogen 7s beginning in 2006 and keeps eight in the New York area and a dozen in Los Angeles, where testers have included the celebrities Leonardo DiCaprio, Brad Pitt, Will Ferrell and Edward Norton. All told, the 100 BMWs have logged more than a million miles in testing around the world. 
 Automakers like Ford and Mazda are also experimenting with the technology of using hydrogen in conventional engines. Ford has built roughly 30 hydrogen powered V-10 buses for commercial customers in the United States and Canada, including major airports, the city of Las Vegas and SeaWorld Orlando. In Japan, Mazda is road-testing a Premacy hydrogen hybrid minivan that combines a rotary engine with an electric motor and lithium-ion batteries. 
 BMW's Hydrogen 7 is powered by the same 6-liter V-12 found in the 760Li, re-engineered to handle the special qualities of hydrogen, including separate injection systems for each fuel. But the real gee-whiz factor is at the rear, where tanks hold 17.5 pounds of hydrogen and 16 gallons of gasoline. 
 Inside that hydrogen tank is nature's lightest element, super-chilled to 423 degrees below zero. At that temperature, nearing the frigid cold of outer space, hydrogen becomes a liquid and shrinks to about one-thousandth the volume, allowing the tank to pack in more fuel. Yet the vacuum-insulated tank felt room temperature to the touch, so well sealed that a block of ice inside would take 13 years to fully melt, BMW engineers say, and a fill-up of coffee would remain hot enough to drink three months later. 
 The hydrogen tank leaves only enough trunk space for a pair of golf bags; a second-generation tank that fits the space more efficiently has been designed. The company is working with other automakers to create a standardized refueling system.
 When the car is parked for extended periods, the evaporating hydrogen builds pressure that must be safely released. A boil-off system mixes the hydrogen with air, runs it through a catalytic converter and releases water vapor through a rear-bumper vent.
 Redundant safety systems abound. If the pressure inside the tank rises too high, a vent in the roof can release gaseous hydrogen directly. And if the car happened to roll over and block the roof opening, hydrogen would reroute through the underbody. A hydrogen detection system makes the car's four door locks glow red to warn of leaking fuel in the trunk, fuel nozzle area or under the hood; windows automatically open if hydrogen should enter the cabin.
 Yet aside from billboard-size Clean Energy logos on the sides, little about the car offers clues to the crazy chemistry inside. The BMW starts conventionally. Pressing a button on the steering wheel let me switch instantly from gas to hydrogen power and back again, even while the car was moving. 
 The 7 idles louder when running on hydrogen, and under power, it drones a bit compared with the heady V-12 rush you're used to from the gasoline-only 760Li. Because the engine output is reduced when it burns hydrogen, BMW detuned the gas-burning mode to match, ensuring that drivers wouldn't feel any difference in performance when switching between the fuels. 
 The engine makes a mere 260 horsepower, compared with a mighty 438 in the gas-only version. The 5.4 zero-to-60 sprint of the 760Li turns into a 9.5-second crawl. (I got smoked off the line by a Honda Odyssey minivan).
 Despite the tepid acceleration and a weight gain of several hundred pounds over the 4,900-pound 760Li, the car is a delight to drive, steering and handling as brilliantly as the gas-only version. 
 BMW conservatively estimates a 125-mile range on hydrogen, with another 300 miles on gasoline. Yet during my test drive, the BMW was on pace to top 140 miles from its hydrogen before I switched backed to gasoline; according to the trip computer, I could have driven 200 miles on a highway cruise. 
 BMW sees that internal combustion engine and dual-fuel ability as an edge over fuel cells, in both cost and to ease the transition from gasoline. Unlike a fuel-cell car, the Hydrogen 7 can rely on today's gasoline stations to carry it between hydrogen pumps that are still largely theoretical in the United States. 
 BMW declined to estimate what the Hydrogen 7 might cost, but a spokesman, Tom Plucinsky, said it could be sold at a ''manageable premium'' over the $125,000 gas-only 760Li. In contrast, experts still peg the price of building fuel-cell cars at $500,000 or more. BMW noted that its hydrogen fuel is produced using only wind, solar or other renewable energy, making the 7's operation almost entirely emissions-free. 
 BMW does agree with the chicken-and-egg argument of fuel-cell proponents: if energy companies or the government won't jump-start the hydrogen infrastructure, the cars must come first. 
 ''A hundred years ago, there certainly wasn't a gas station on every corner,'' a BMW spokesman, Dave Buchko, said. In California, one initiative calls for building 150 to 200 hydrogen stations along major highways by 2010, at a projected cost of $75 to $200 million. 
 If the hydrogen economy fails to take off, BMW is hedging its bets with other technologies. The company plans to unveil an all-electric Mini Cooper at this year's Los Angeles auto show; no date has been announced for sales.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SPECIAL HANDLING: Hydrogen refills require a special nozzle.
DUAL FUEL: The Hydrogen 7's V-12 engine can also run on gasoline.
 INSIDE TRACK: One small step toward zero-carbon motoring. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS LOHNES/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. AU2) CHART: Fill It Up With Hydrogen. Chart details stats for BMW 760Li and BMW Hydrogen 7. (pg. AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); SEDANS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (89%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); SMOKING (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); CRUISES (77%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (77%); EMISSIONS (76%); PORT AUTHORITIES (76%); MINIVANS (72%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (69%); NITROGEN OXIDES (68%); GREENHOUSE GASES (64%); AIRPORTS (50%)

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (92%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (92%); BMW (BIT) (92%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: BRAD PITT (50%); LEONARDO DICAPRIO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (71%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (77%); GERMANY (71%); CANADA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



494 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Citigroup Puts Its Money Where Its Name Will Be

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sportbiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The Citi Field sign above the main scoreboard at the Mets' new ballpark, the first of several to be raised by April, is nearly complete. The white and red letters that are in place offer ample evidence of the 20-year, $400 million agreement to make Citigroup's name synonymous with New York baseball.
 When the deal with Citigroup, the banking and financial services giant, was made in November 2006, it had just ended its third quarter with net income of $5.3 billion. But a year later, as the subprime mortgage meltdown began to roil the economy, Citigroup's finances began to suffer. 
 In the past three quarters, it has lost $17 billion -- including a $2.5 billion loss reported on Friday -- caused by $38 billion in credit losses and write-downs for bad mortgage investments. Since early 2007, the company has cut about 28,000 jobs.
 The Shea name never had such troubles.
 Losses or not, there is no stopping the Citi Field deal, even if some of its laid-off employees may not be able to afford to take their families to a game, or even if some of them could have been retained with the $20 million a year being spent on baseball.
 Even in the flush times during which it was signed, the deal seemed questionable. With high name recognition and a place among the world's banking leaders, Citigroup hardly needed the Citi name plastered on a ballpark to enhance itself. Will fans move their C.D.'s to a Citibank branch because of the Mets relationship, any more than air travelers will consider flying American Airlines because its name is on two professional arenas? 
 Will the corporate suite-holders at the Mets' new home want to do more or new business with Citigroup because they share deluxe accommodations at Chez Wilpon?
 Rob Julavits, a Citigroup spokesman, said Friday that Citi was ''strongly committed'' to the deal as part of its local and global marketing efforts, and that the deal represented a ''redirection of our existing and budgeted marketing funds.'' 
 In addition, he said, it ''provides an incredible platform to promote our world-class brand, enhance our relationship with current clients, attract new clients and expand our considerable community efforts.''
 Dave Howard, the Mets' executive vice president for business operations, would not say whether Citi has an escape or buyout clause, or whether the bank has begun to make any payments. Citi has shown no jitters and sought no financial relief, he said. 
 ''Just the opposite,'' he said. ''They're very excited about the relationship and enthusiastic about being our partner as we get ready to open the ballpark with their name.'' He said the Mets had no concerns about Citigroup's long-term finances.
 ''We're confident and ecstatic about having them as our partner,'' Howard said.
 There is a valid case for continuing to market companies strongly in difficult times. A financial colossus does not stop advertising, even amid enormous losses. And for a company as big as Citigroup, $20 million a year for naming rights is pocket change. Still, the spending is symbolic. It's on a baseball stadium in a gloomy economy, an investment that seems to thumb its nose at laid-off workers.
 ''They will have to clearly articulate to their shareholders why this will drive their business going forward,'' said David Carter, the executive director of the Sports Business Institute at the University of Southern California. ''They have to demonstrate that they will get a return on their investment and not be sheepish about it.'' He said the main value for Citigroup was in the business it could develop with companies in other suites.
 ''You're not closing a deal if you're Citi only because your name is on the field,'' Carter said. ''But doing business there, and the relationship with the Mets, might lead to a deal.''
 Another bank, Barclays, followed Citigroup by a few months with its 20-year, $400 million naming-rights deal for the Nets' arena near downtown Brooklyn.
 Barclays, based in Britain, lacked Citigroup's substantial presence in the United States and viewed the arena -- whenever the Barclays Center's long-delayed construction starts -- as part of an aggressive domestic brand-building plan. But like Citigroup, it has had problems in the credit market, with $6.5 billion in write-downs on its banking scorecard. To shore up its capital position, Barclays recently sold $8.9 billion in new stock.
 The bank, which sponsors the Premier League and a PGA Tour event in the FedEx Cup playoffs, is still linked with the Nets, who are seeking a 2010 arena opening if construction starts soon. On Friday, Brett Yormark, the president of Nets Sports and Entertainment, called Barclays a ''stable and dynamic institution that is thriving in a very challenging marketplace.'' 
 Brandon Ashcraft, a bank spokesman, said, ''Barclays is fully committed to its relationship with the Nets.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Citigroup remains committed to its naming-rights deal with the Mets despite large losses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); BASEBALL (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (75%); SUBPRIME LENDING (75%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (60%); LAYOFFS (56%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (91%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



495 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: The Way Through

 BODY:
Recent postcards from the financial edge: A bleary-eyed Treasury secretary announcing on a Sunday evening that the government would bail out Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac if need be. The next day, in Southern California, long lines of depositors waiting to withdraw their money from a failed savings and loan.
 Secretary Henry Paulson's appearance last Sunday marked the second time this year that top federal officials scrambled through the weekend to avert a feared Monday morning meltdown in the financial markets. In March, the Federal Reserve used its emergency powers -- and tens of billions of dollars in taxpayer-backed guarantees -- to prevent the bankruptcy of Bear Stearns and to shore up other major Wall Street firms. 
 The Fed's first intervention calmed the markets for a while, and it appears that Treasury's intervention on behalf of Fannie and Freddie, the mortgage giants, may do the same. The cold reality, however, is that the financial system will be crisis prone and the economy will be weak until house prices stop falling and the mortgage losses are all accounted for. That will not happen soon. 
 In the meantime, a crisis could derail the markets and the economy. The worst would be a disorderly decline in the dollar, which would cause prices and interest rates to spike, and could result from a loss of investor faith in policy makers to rectify -- or even muddle through -- the current problems. At best, the deteriorating condition of the financial system will constrain lending and hamstring the economy for a long time. 
 And that brings to mind the other image of depositors queuing up outside IndyMac Bank branches throughout Southern California. IndyMac, one of the nation's largest savings and loans, had been seized by federal regulators the week before, the biggest such failure in more than two decades. It was one of just a handful of seizures so far this year, but surely not the last. 
 As real estate loans continue to sour and as rising unemployment and rising prices provoke defaults across an array of other loans, analysts expect up to 150 banks to fail in the next year or so. That, in turn, could force the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to raise more money from surviving banks to replenish its $53 billion reimbursement fund; the IndyMac failure alone could take up to 15 percent of the F.D.I.C.'s fund. The potential need to raise money does not call into question the soundness of that safety net, but it is indicative of the challenges that confront both banks and policy makers. 
 In the short run, Congress should grant the Treasury the authority it seeks to bail out Fannie and Freddie if necessary, by including the proposed measures in the pending foreclosure relief bill. That bill is an essential attempt to stop spiraling house price declines. 
 Lawmakers are correct to question the Treasury's plan; it would represent a hasty extension of government powers and could put taxpayers at risk. But they need to resolve their worries, by suggesting alternatives or compromises, rather than wasting time with election-year chest thumping over the evils of bailouts. No one ever wants a bailout. The question is whether there is a better idea than the Treasury plan to prevent the even greater harm that would result from the failure of Fannie or Freddie. Doing nothing is not an option.
 It is not enough, either, to focus only on the short run. Today's financial crises were years in the making, as Americans, awash in tax cuts and easy money, lived beyond their means to an unprecedented degree, and the Bush administration, while cutting taxes, pursued wars and vast new spending. The next president must level with the people, explaining that bolstered savings, by individuals and by government, will involve sacrifice -- delayed gratification of consumption in order to build a better foundation for the future. 
 The message is complicated. The economy, in the near term, needs stimulus, interventions and perhaps bailouts. But at the same time, the nation must prepare for slow, steady and painful changes to get the economy back on track for the long haul. That means tax increases and government spending cuts, as soon as a break in the economic clouds indicate it is safe to enact them -- not only to restore fiscal health, but to channel resources toward neglected areas, like universal health care and infrastructure repair. 
 What the candidates say about fixing the immediate problems is largely theoretical. But it is not theoretical for them to talk about what they would do, over four to eight years in office, to restore true economic stability. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (75%); CURRENCIES (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); INTEREST RATES (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); BANK BRANCHES (63%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (81%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (81%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (81%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



496 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Inside Nairobi, The Next Palo Alto?

BYLINE: By G. PASCAL ZACHARY. 
G. Pascal Zachary teaches journalism at Stanford and writes about technology and economic development. E-mail: gzach@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IN the republic of innovation, life is unfair. A relatively small number of places -- all in wealthy countries or in China and India -- create nearly every important technological advance. 
 Other places must be content with technologies made by others. Yet people in these areas are dreaming of more. 
 Consider Wilfred Mworia, a 22-year-old engineering student and freelance code writer in Nairobi, Kenya. In the four weeks leading up to Apple's much-anticipated release of a new iPhone on July 11, Mr. Mworia created an application for the phone that shows where events in Nairobi are happening and allows people to add details about them. 
 Mr. Mworia's desire to develop an application for the iPhone is not unusual: many designers around the world are writing programs for the device. But his location posed some daunting obstacles: the iPhone doesn't work in Nairobi, and Mr. Mworia doesn't even own one. He wrote his program on an iPhone simulator. 
 ''Even if I don't have an iPhone,'' Mr. Mworia says defiantly, ''I can still have a world market for my work.'' 
 Nairobi's challenges are many. Internet use is relatively expensive and slow. Power failures are common. The city also lacks a world-class technical university. Mr. Mworia's professors don't offer lessons in the latest computer languages; he must learn them on his own.
 Political instability can be a problem, too. Earlier this year, Kenya suffered widespread violence after its disputed national election. For weeks, work in Nairobi came to a halt. 
 ''If you have a bright idea in Nairobi, you can't just turn it around,'' says Laura Frederick, an American working on an online payment system in the city.
 Still, Nairobi is home to a digital brew that invites optimism about its chances for creating unusual innovations. The city has relatively few wired phone lines or networked personal computers, so mobile phones are the essential digital tool. Four times as many people have them as have bank accounts. Text messages are far more popular than e-mail. Safaricom, the dominant mobile provider, offers a service called M-pesa that lets customers send money with text messages. Nokia sells brand-new phones here for as little as $33. 
 While engineers in the United States lavish attention on expensive phones that boast laptoplike features, in Kenya there are 10 million low-end phones. Millions more are used elsewhere in Africa. Enhancements to such basic phones can be experimented with cheaply in Nairobi, and because designers are weaned on narrow bandwidth, they are comfortable writing compact programs suited to puny devices.
 ''Applications are heavy in America,'' says Michael Wakahe, a Nairobi code writer. ''Here we have to make them light,'' because simpler hardware requires smaller programs. These can have advantages in wireless systems.
 The distinctive digital experience in Nairobi inspires confidence in its youthful community of programmers, bloggers and Web enthusiasts. Over the past year, about 600 people in Nairobi -- most under 25 -- have coalesced into a group called Skunk Works, sharing ideas and encouraging new businesses. In June, it held an all-day workshop that included sessions on using the Android phone operating system from Google, developing applications for digital maps and creating content for mobile phones. 
 ''Possibilities are opening up for us,'' says Josiah Mugambi, one of the group's organizers.
 The prospect of marrying low-end mobile phones with the Internet is earning Nairobi notice from outsiders, who wonder whether the city might emerge as a test-bed for tomorrow's technologies. One intriguing possibility is broadcasting local television programs on mobile phones.
 In Nairobi's highest-profile validation, Google opened a development office here last September. ''Africa is a huge long-term market for us,'' Eric E. Schmidt, Google's chief executive, said by e-mail. ''We have to start by helping people get online, and the creativity of the people will take care of the rest.'' 
 Google hired seven recent university graduates, who digitally mapped the streets and structures of Nairobi for Google Maps. The company is now doing the same for other African cities. A leading Nairobi television broadcaster, NTV, has made a deal to present whole episodes of its programs on YouTube, a Google property. 
 Google plans to hire more people in Nairobi and is recruiting staff in half a dozen other African cities. In Nairobi, Google chose a veteran of the city's Internet-access industry to lead its office. The company assigned two Americans here; like the presidential candidate Barack Obama, each is the child of a Kenyan and an American.
 The company's presence has raised ambitions. ''When I interview people for jobs in this office,'' explains Chris Kiagiri, a Google technology officer in Nairobi, ''I ask them, 'What would you like to see Google do in this market that it has not attempted anywhere else in the world?'''
 ''A lot of people assume Google is trying to replicate in Africa what it has done elsewhere,'' adds Mr. Kiagiri, who transferred last year from Google's head office in California. ''Sure, we want to bring existing products into this market. But we also want to organize information locally in a way we haven't done elsewhere.''
 To be truly creative in a technological backwater is to defeat geography. Even as powerful a technological force as Google might not succeed. But dreaming of greatness, Kenyans are pushing Google to expand into completely new areas.
 One local programmer, Timothy Mbugua, wants Google to enhance its communication backbone so he can use it to build a money-transfer business that would charge lower rates than existing services. While it sounds daunting, Mr. Mbugua explains, ''I'm only saying to Google, 'This is what I need from you in order to execute my idea.''' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Programmers are catering to the 10 million cellphones in Kenya. Google has mapped Nairobi and wants to add similar detail for other African cities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACOB WIRE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) Maps: Google maps of Nairobi, Kenya, and other other African cities. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); TEXT MESSAGING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); CREATIVE WRITING (77%); BANDWIDTH (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); WRITERS (76%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (75%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (75%); MOBILE PAYMENTS (75%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (71%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (71%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (70%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (66%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (65%); ELECTIONS (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (61%); POWER FAILURES (51%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (84%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (94%) KENYA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (91%); INDIA (90%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



497 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Talks With Iran End In a Deadlock

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: GENEVA 

 BODY:
International talks on Iran's nuclear ambitions ended in deadlock on Saturday, despite the Bush administration's decision to reverse policy and send a senior American official to the table for the first time. 
 The presence of William J. Burns, the under secretary of state for political affairs, was one of the most important encounters between Iran and the United States since relations were severed nearly three decades ago. And it was part of a rare show of unity among the six negotiating partners -- the United States, France, Britain, Germany, Russia and China -- who pressed Iran to accept compromise.
 But Iran responded with a written document that failed to address the main issue: international demands that it stop enriching uranium. And Iranian diplomats reiterated before the talks that they considered the issue nonnegotiable. 
 Specifically, the world powers wanted Iran to accept a formula known as ''freeze-for-freeze'' to break the deadlock. Under the formula, Iran would not add to its nuclear program, and the United States and other powers would not seek new international sanctions for six weeks to pave the way for formal negotiations. The proposal was originally offered to Iran last year and presented again to it last month as part of a new proposal to ultimately give Iran economic and political incentives if it stops producing enriched uranium.
 But officials involved in Saturday's negotiations said that when they repeatedly pressed the Iranians to say whether they could accept the idea, the question was evaded every time. 
 ''We still didn't get the answer we were looking for,'' the European Union foreign policy chief, Javier Solana, said at a news conference after several hours of talks, held in Geneva's City Hall.
 Mr. Solana said the Iranians were given two weeks to formally respond to the proposal before it would be withdrawn.
 At the news conference, Saeed Jalili, Iran's chief negotiator, refused to answer whether Iran would accept a freeze of its uranium enrichment program, however temporary. But he called the negotiating process a ''very beautiful endeavor'' with a result that he hoped would eventually be ''beautiful to behold.''
 Mr. Burns did not speak privately with Mr. Jalili. But in a brief statement in the morning meeting, he said that the United States was serious in its support for the six-power process and serious that Iran must suspend its production of enriched uranium, the State Department said. 
 He told his negotiating partners after the talks that the United States would push for new punitive sanctions at the United Nations Security Council in September, one participant in the meeting said. 
 Saturday's meeting at Geneva's City Hall was one of the most important public encounters between an Iranian and an American official since relations were halted after the American Embassy was seized in Tehran in 1979. 
 Other authorized meetings have occurred. Madeleine K. Albright, as secretary of state, for example, once sat at the same table with then Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi and other emissaries at the United Nations to discuss Afghanistan. Colin L. Powell, as secretary of state, once shook Mr. Kharrazi's hand. American and Iranian officials have met episodically in Baghdad to discuss Iraq's security.
 But Saturday's meeting was the highest-level session between the countries during the Bush administration, which once branded Iran part of an ''axis of evil'' and has not ruled out military action against Iran because of its nuclear ambitions. 
 It comes as the Bush administration, in its final months, has told some of its closest allies that the United States was moving forward with a plan to establish an American diplomatic presence in Tehran for the first time since the rupture in bilateral relations. 
 But for some, it is hard to understand why the Americans have made a diplomatic gesture with Mr. Burns's participation at this time. America's negotiating partners, particularly Britain, had wanted an American presence when they traveled to Tehran last month to present an enhanced package of incentives. That moment, officials said, would have been meaningful and more logical. 
 Instead, Mr. Burns came to the table when the Iranians were giving their reply, and there had never been a strong signal that it was going to be different from the past. 
 Despite the shift in American willingness to talk, one point of policy clearly has not changed: the Bush administration wants to avoid the impression that it is negotiating with Iran before it suspends its production of enriched uranium, which can be used to make electricity or fuel bombs. 
 Even the subject of a joint photograph was one of dispute. The only photo accepted by the American side was one with all parties at the table. The Americans objected to the idea of a photo of Mr. Solana and Mr. Jalili at a joint news conference with Mr. Burns and the other participants standing behind them.
 Complicating the diplomacy was the fact that before Saturday's talks, the six powers were not united on a joint strategy on how to proceed. The American delegation had told its partners that Mr. Burns's appearance was a one-time event and that Iran had two weeks to decide whether to accept the ''freeze-for-freeze'' formula. 
 Germany, Russia and China, by contrast, argued that there should be time to explore the negotiating track with Iran.
 There were other disagreements among the six powers as well. France and Britain have argued that there should be a precise definition of what the Iranians would have to freeze to open the way to formal talks. 
 But those disagreements evaporated during the talks with Iran. The six powers presented a united front in pushing the Iranians to give a clear answer on whether they were willing to make the good-faith gesture of halting new nuclear activity to pave the way for formal talks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%)

PERSON: SAEED JALILI (79%); JAVIER SOLANA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); SWITZERLAND (74%); GERMANY (72%); FRANCE (72%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



498 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: Surge Protector

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. FALLON. 
William J. Fallon, a retired admiral and a fellow at the M.I.T. Center for International Studies, was commander of the United States Central Command from 2007 to 2008.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 THE prospect of a long-term security arrangement between the United States and Iraq has become a lightning rod for criticism. Yet such an agreement -- which the White House believes could be completed this month now that the two countries have agreed to set a ''general time horizon'' for reducing the number of American troops in Iraq -- would be in the best interests of the governments of both countries, and of the people who live in a region of the world that urgently needs stability. 
 The United Nations Security Council resolution that authorizes coalition operations in Iraq expires at the end of this year. But the calendar is not the most important reason for the United States to enter into a long-term pact with Iraq. The opportunity presented by the improved situation on the ground begs to be exploited lest it disappear in the ever-shifting sands of Middle East strife. 
 Are the desires of the American people and the Iraqi people different? I don't think so. During my year in command of all American forces in the Middle East, I met often with Iraqis of all walks of life. Discussions with people -- from Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki to clerics, governors and generals to men in the streets of Baghdad and towns and cities throughout the country -- left me with several strong impressions. The top objective of both countries is security and stability in the region. Letting Iraq's security forces assume responsibility for their country is another mutual goal. Withdrawing the vast majority of American and coalition troops from Iraq as soon as possible is a clear priority.
 Why is achieving these aims so difficult? The most significant obstacle is war weariness. The war has dragged on so long that people are fixated on yesterday's many negative aspects and are not aware of the profoundly different and improved situation in Iraq today -- which is very different from only a few months ago. 
 Another major challenge is the continuing tendency to view anything to do with Iraq in the polarizing terms of yes or no, in or out. The prudent and rational approach is more nuanced, and more likely to achieve both countries' mutual goals. 
 There are two key aspects of the bilateral security accord that has been proposed. The first is a status of forces agreement, which is a detailed compilation of the procedures and legal protections that govern the presence of foreign troops in another country. The second element is a higher-level strategic framework agreement, in which the two parties agree on the principles that will guide their mutual actions to create long-term security in Iraq. This more important part of the accord focuses on major policy issues like the roles and missions for each country's military, the control of forces in various security situations, procedures for detainees, and the transition of responsibility. 
 Objections and objectors to the agreement are numerous. From the American side, we hear that it would tie us to an open-ended commitment to defend Iraq from external threats; that it would continue to drain resources from a faltering domestic economy; and that it violates Congressional prerogatives enshrined in the Constitution.
 Some Iraqis, meanwhile, complain that any continued American presence in their country perpetuates what they see as an occupation and an infringement of their national sovereignty. They and other skeptics in the region object to the potential for long-term military bases, and they denounce America's alleged hegemonic intentions. 
 And Iran objects to every aspect of continued American-Iraqi cooperation while promoting instability and supporting attacks on coalition forces in Iraq by providing arms and training to Shiite extremists and criminals.
 These objections are obscuring what may be a one-time opportunity to achieve the goals so keenly desired by the majority of Americans and Iraqis, who care about peace and stability in the world. Most of the concerns involve worst-case possibilities that play to the fears of the poorly informed. For example, the security accord would define future commitments rather than perpetuate the perception of an ''open-ended'' engagement. The United States needs access to bases in Iraq to support the current level of operations. As responsibility for security passes to Iraqi forces, the need for bases will diminish.
 Negotiators can sort through the issues. Given their recent history in Iraq, contractors and their rights and protections are a controversial topic. But civilian contractors perform a wide range of essential tasks, and the terms of their future service needs to be included in the agreement. Control of Iraqi airspace is another important component that will require clearheaded negotiations to preserve our military's ability to ensure the safety of the many airplanes flying over Iraq and the timeliness of combat air support for troops on the ground. 
 The benefits that could be achieved are considerable. The agreement could reap dividends similar to those gained over the past year through the sacrifice and efforts of so many who have carried out an enlightened counterinsurgency strategy. 
 The number of incidents of violence nationwide in Iraq is less than a tenth of what we were experiencing in the spring of 2007. The casualty rate among American troops is the lowest in more than four years and continues to improve. Ethnic and sectarian violence among the Iraqi population has declined to levels not seen since the early days of the war. 
 Iraq's security forces, with only modest coalition support, have demonstrated unprecedented initiative by taking control and assuming security of previously insurgent-dominated areas like Amara, Basra, Diwaniya and Sadr City. These actions signal a more confident and capable Iraqi leadership and military. 
 The government of Prime Minister Maliki has assumed an increasingly large share of the cost of Iraqi security, paying $3 for each American dollar contributed, and is on track to assume near total responsibility next year as revenues from oil exports continue to rise. Economic activity in Iraq is accelerating. Major oil companies are signing development contracts to improve the infrastructure.
 The government of Iraq is eager to exert its sovereignty, but its leaders also recognize that it will be some time before Iraq can take full control of security. They are acutely aware of Iran's behavior and of the need for continued cooperation with the United States.
 This is a pivotal time. The aspirations of the hopeful could come to fruition: a stable Iraq, with a modern oil industry and substantially increased export capacity, that is part of the growing regional economic and political cooperation in the Middle East. This is not wishful dreaming but a very real possibility.
 But it will happen only if security in Iraq is maintained. And a long-term arrangement with the United States is key to Iraq's future security. 
 Reasonable objectors to the security pact, in both countries, must jettison the rhetorical and emotional baggage of the recent past. Forget the errors and bad decisions and deal with the present. Real progress has been made, and this positive momentum must be maintained. 
 Compromise, of course, will be essential. But confidence will be, too. The Americans need to trust Iraq's security forces, and the Iraqis need to trust America's intentions. The United States must give the Iraqi government an opportunity to demonstrate sovereignty over its territory while the government of Iraq must recognize its continued, if diminishing, reliance on the American military. 
 But the political posturing in pursuit of short-term gains must cease. All interested parties should cooperate for the general good.
 We have come a long way in Iraq. It is in the mutual interest of the United States and Iraq to continue the transition to Iraqi forces and the drawdown of American troops in circumstances most likely to provide for stability. Certainly there is some risk involved. But the opportunity is unprecedented and the potential vast. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY FOGELSON-LUBLINE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



499 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 5139 words

HEADLINE: The Next Kind of Integration

BYLINE: By EMILY BAZELON. 
Emily Bazelon is a senior editor at Slate who writes frequently about legal issues. Her last article for the magazine was about autistic girls.

 BODY:
In June of last year, a conservative majority of the Supreme Court, in a 5-to-4 decision, declared the racial-integration efforts of two school districts unconstitutional. Seattle and Louisville, Ky., could no longer assign students to schools based on their race, Chief Justice John Roberts wrote in his lead opinion in Meredith v. Jefferson County School Board (and its companion case, Parents Involved in Community Schools v. Seattle School District No. 1). Justice Stephen Breyer sounded a sad and grim note of dissent. Pointing out that the court was rejecting student-assignment plans that the districts had designed to stave off de facto resegregation, Breyer wrote that ''to invalidate the plans under review is to threaten the promise of Brown.'' By invoking Brown v. Board of Education, the court's landmark 1954 civil rights ruling, Breyer accused the majority of abandoning a touchstone in the country's efforts to overcome racial division. ''This is a decision that the court and the nation will come to regret,'' he concluded. 
 Breyer's warning, along with even more dire predictions from civil rights groups, helped place the court's ruling at the center of the liberal indictment of the Roberts court. In Louisville, too, the court's verdict met with resentment. Last fall, I asked Pat Todd, the assignment director for the school district of Jefferson County, which encompasses Louisville and its suburbs, whether any good could come of the ruling. She shook her head so hard that strands of blond hair loosened from her bun. ''No,'' she said with uncharacteristic exasperation, ''we're already doing what we should be.'' 
 Todd was referring to Louisville's success in distributing black and white students, which it does more evenly than any district in the country with a comparable black student population; almost every school is between 15 and 50 percent African-American. The district's combination of school choice, busing and magnet programs has brought general, if not uniform, acceptance -- rather than white flight and disaffection, the legacy of desegregation in cities like Boston and Kansas City, Mo. The student population, which now numbers nearly 100,000, has held steady at about 35 percent black and 55 percent white, along with a small and growing number of Hispanics and Asians.
 With its decision in Meredith, the court was forcing Louisville to rethink the way it would assign elementary-school students and, in the process, to confront some tricky questions. Is the purpose of integration simply to mix students of different colors for the sake of equity or to foster greater familiarity and comfort among the races? Should integration necessarily translate into concrete gains like greater achievement for all students? If so, is mixing students by race the most effective mechanism for attaining it? 
 In Louisville, the achievement gap between whites and blacks is 20 percentage points at many grade levels. For Todd and her team, whatever their reservations about the decision in Meredith, coming up with an alternative assignment plan was an opportunity to think about a new kind of integration and what it might accomplish. In Louisville, integration would no longer focus solely on race but also on the barriers of class, of advantage and disadvantage. Other cities have been thinking along these lines. In the wake of the Supreme Court's decision, four other districts -- Des Moines, Burlington, Vt., Omaha and Beaumont, Tex. -- announced a switch to class-based integration. Seattle, too, is discussing setting aside 5 to 15 percent of the spots (a relatively small percentage) in desired high schools for low-income students. Some of the plans go into effect this fall; others, including Louisville's, begin a year from September.
 The chief justice didn't address the idea of class-based integration in his opinion. But Justice Anthony Kennedy did, in a separate concurrence. And because Kennedy cast the fifth vote for the majority, his view controls the law. Though he agreed with Roberts that public school districts should not make school assignments based on the race of individual students, he added that the court's ruling ''should not prevent school districts from continuing the important work of bringing together students of different racial, ethnic and economic backgrounds.''
 How were schools to do this? Around the country, school-district lawyers studied Kennedy's opinion and came to a rough consensus. In its amicus brief before the court, the Bush administration cited socioeconomic integration as a ''race neutral'' alternative to race-based assignment plans. Kennedy picked up on this, and no other justice wrote to contradict him. As a result, the school-district lawyers concluded that districts could assign an individual child to a school based on any kind of socioeconomic measure they chose -- income, assets, parental education attainment. Districts could also be ''race conscious,'' according to Kennedy, when they drew school boundaries, chose sites for new schools and directed money to particular programs. But in these situations, they would usually be limited to taking into account the racial composition of a neighborhood rather than the race of an individual student.
 In terms of the court's jurisprudence, this is a major change. Race has been the organizing principle of integration since Brown v. Board of Education. At the time of the court's ruling in Meredith, hundreds of districts were pursuing some sort of racial integration, with or without a court order, while only a few dozen at most were trying any form of socioeconomic integration. Over the years, racial integration has proved to have tangible benefits. Amy Stuart Wells, an education professor at Columbia Teachers College, has found that going to school with substantial numbers of white students helped black students to form cross-racial friendships and, by giving them access to white social networks, eventually to find work in jobs higher up the economic ladder.
 However important these gains are, they are long-term and cannot be easily or quickly assessed. And increasingly, schools are held to a standard of immediately measurable outcomes. The No Child Left Behind Act, signed into law in 2002, demands student test scores that climb ever upward, with a mandate for all students to be proficient in reading and math by 2014. Test scores may not be the best way to assess the quality of a teacher or a school, but the pressure to improve scores, whatever its shortcomings, is itself on the rise. And if high test scores are the goal, it turns out, class-based integration may be the more effective tool.
 Researchers have been demonstrating this result since 1966, when Congress asked James S. Coleman, a Johns Hopkins sociologist, to deliver a report on why the achievement of black students lagged far behind that of white ones. The expected answer was that more than a decade after Brown, black kids were still often going to inferior schools with small budgets. But Coleman found that the varying amount of money spent on schools didn't account for the achievement gap. Instead, the greater poverty of black families did. When high concentrations of poor kids went to school together, Coleman reported, all the students at the school tended to learn less. 
 How much less was later quantified. The Harvard sociologist Christopher Jencks reanalyzed Coleman's data in the 1970s and concluded that poor black sixth-graders in majority middle-class schools were 20 months ahead of poor black sixth-graders in majority low-income schools. The statistics for poor white students were similar. In the last 40 years, Coleman's findings, known informally as the Coleman Report, have been confirmed again and again. Most recently, in a 2006 study, Douglas Harris, an economist at the University of Wisconsin, found that when more than half the students were low-income, only 1.1 percent of schools consistently performed at a ''high'' level (defined as two years of scores in the top third of the U.S. Department of Education's national achievement database in two grades and in two subjects: English and math). By contrast, 24.2 percent of schools that are majority middle-class met Harris's standard. 
 There are, of course, determined urban educators who have proved that select schools filled with poor and minority students can thrive -- in the right circumstances, with the right teachers and programs. But consistently good education at schools with such student bodies remains the rare exception. The powerful effect of the socioeconomic makeup of a student body on academic achievement has become ''one of the most consistent findings in research on education,'' Gary Orfield, a U.C.L.A. education professor, and Susan Eaton, a research director at Harvard Law, wrote in their 1996 book, ''Dismantling Desegregation.''
 Most researchers think that this result is brought about by the advantages that middle-class students bring with them. Richard Kahlenberg of the Century Foundation lays them out in his 2001 book, ''All Together Now'': more high-level classes, more parent volunteers and peers who on average have twice the vocabulary and half the behavioral problems of poor students. And, especially, more good teachers. Harris, the economist, says that poor minority students still don't have comparable access to effective teachers, measured by preparation and experience. The question, then, is whether a plan that integrates a district by class as well as by race will help win for all its schools the kind of teaching that tends to be linked to achievement. ''The evidence indicates that it would,'' Harris says. 
 Ronald Ferguson, an economist at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, is less persuaded. His research highlights the nagging persistence of a racial achievement gap in well-off suburbs. ''What happens with the achievement gap in a place like Louisville,'' he says, ''will depend on how vigilant their leaders are to make sure high-quality instruction is delivered across the board.'' Such teaching is more likely in a school with a critical mass of middle-class parents, he concedes. But he stresses that to reap the benefits, poor kids have to be evenly distributed among classrooms and not just grouped together in the lowest tracks. ''To the degree a district takes the kids who struggle the most academically and spreads them across different classrooms, they're making teachers' work more doable,'' he says. ''And that may be the biggest effect.'' 
 Once they started looking for them, Todd and her colleagues saw the effects of class division and poverty in the Jefferson County schools. Thorough racial desegregation had not, it seemed, led to thorough class desegregation. At 40 of 90 elementary schools in the district, 75 percent or more of the students came from low-income homes. And the effects of these high concentrations of poverty were striking: poor students in Louisville, black and white, fared worse when they attended schools filled with other poor kids. In elementary school, 61 percent of poor students at mostly low-income schools scored proficient in reading, compared with 71 percent of poor students at majority-middle-class schools. For math, the comparative proficiency rates were 52 percent to 63 percent. Because black students were disproportionately poor, they were more likely to attend high-poverty schools, and this was contributing to the district's pronounced black-white achievement gap.
 Todd and her planners wanted to tackle the problem, she says, but they were mindful of going too far in their efforts and losing the support of parents. In other districts -- including Cincinnati, Evanston, Ill., Bibb County, Ga., and Madison, Wis. -- the reaction to the Supreme Court's ruling had been to move to dismantle racial-integration programs. Todd and other school officials didn't want integration redefined to turn into no integration all. To get a handle on a new plan, Todd turned to an heir of James Coleman: the researcher John Powell.
 In the 1960s, Powell was one of the only African-American students in his advanced high-school classes in Detroit; when he became the class valedictorian, a teacher told him he wasn't the smartest student. He now directs the Kirwan Institute for the Study of Race and Ethnicity at Ohio State University, and he says he still thinks that race is a category with singular power. But he also appreciates the stark effects of segregating poor kids. ''Ever since the Coleman Report, we've seen that there's a high correlation between good schools and schools that are integrated socioeconomically as well as racially,'' he says. ''I think everyone agrees that what we need are more good schools.''
 In Louisville, Powell lent his expertise to Todd and her team. They came up with a computer-generated map that shows what Powell defines as the district's areas of ''low opportunity.'' Todd, who is 61 and taught every grade in the Louisville schools before becoming an administrator, went over the map with me one day last December. The map used two different measures of class to identify Jefferson County's areas of disadvantage: income level and the educational attainment of adults. (To gauge disadvantage, districts embarking on class-based integration often use who among their students receives free or reduced lunch; Powell, however, contends that this is a relatively crude measure.) Using census data, Todd's team identified the zones in the district in which households fall below the average income and education levels, with fewer adults who have finished high school or gone to college or beyond. Finally, the team added one more factor: a higher-than-average number of minorities, almost all of them African-Americans or Hispanics. 
 The map's class-plus-race formula revealed a major partition. One region, which Todd's team called Geographic Area A, is a mermaid-shaped swath of blue, with its head in Louisville's West End, just south of the Ohio River, and its tail to the south. The region encompasses the parts of the district with a higher-than-average minority population, lower-than-average median income and lower-than-average adult educational attainment. In Geographic Area A live about 30 percent of Jefferson County's students. The rest of the county, colored yellow, included everyone else -- the better off, better educated and whiter Geographic Area B. 
 What if the district were to use this map as a guide for school integration? Instead of maintaining each school as no less than 15 percent and no more than 50 percent black, Todd's team could propose that each school have no less than 15 percent and no more than 50 percent of students from Geographic Area A. By distributing students from the district's residential zones of disadvantage, the new plan would integrate the schools by class. There would no longer be 40 elementary schools with heavily poor-student populations. There could potentially be no such schools.
 Given the presumed boost to test scores resulting from distributing poor students more widely, you might wonder why Todd's team retained race as an admissions factor at all. To answer this, it's worth considering the country's existing examples of purely class-based integration. The best known is in Wake County, N.C. With 134,000 students, the Wake County school district ranks 19 among the country's 20 largest, spanning 800 square miles that include bleak tracts in the city of Raleigh, mansion-filled suburban cul-de-sacs and rural roads ending in the fresh earth of a new subdivision. The student population is about half white, one-quarter African-American and one-quarter Hispanic, Asian and multiracial. The district voluntarily pursued race-based integration in the 1980s and '90s. In 2000, after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit began to frown on the use of race in student assignment -- a harbinger of the Supreme Court's stance last year -- the district began assigning kids to schools based on the income level of the geographic zone they lived in. The aim was to balance the schools so that no more than 40 percent of the students at each one come from a low-income area. (This year, the district added another goal: to have no more than 25 percent of students at any one school for whom English is a second language.)
 Wake County adopted class-based integration with the hard-nosed goal of raising test scores. The strategy was simple: no poor schools, no bad schools. And indeed, the district has posted striking improvements in the test scores of black and low-income students: in 1995, only 40 percent of the black students in Wake County in the third through eighth grades scored at grade level in state reading tests; by last year, the rate had almost doubled, to 82.5 percent. Statewide scores for black students also got better over the same time period, but not by as much. Wake County's numbers improve as students get older: 92 percent of all eighth graders read at or above grade level, including about 85 percent of black students and about 80 percent of low-income students. (Math scores are lower, following a statewide trend that reflects a change in the grading scale.) The district has achieved these results even as the share of low-income students over all has increased from about 30 percent a decade ago to about 40 percent today. 
 But the lessons of Wake County, Powell and Todd argue, don't apply everywhere. ''In different districts, you have different geographic patterns,'' Powell says. ''So you need different integration models to shop around.'' To begin with, Louisville is less affluent -- more than 60 percent of its elementary school students receive free or reduced lunches, compared with Wake County's 40 percent. In Wake County, the vast majority of the poor students are black and Hispanic, and so mixing kids by class tightly correlates to mixing them by race. But in Jefferson County, more than a third of the kids who receive free or reduced lunches are white. As a result, redistributing students by class alone might still isolate them by race. 
 This is a limitation of class-based integration that holds true elsewhere. The city of San Francisco, for instance, has undergone substantial racial resegregation since retooling its diversity plan to emphasize socioeconomic factors. Even in Wake County, the fraction of students in racially segregated schools has climbed a bit over the last decade, from 25 percent to 32 percent. A 2006 paper by the education researchers Sean Reardon, John T. Yun and Michal Kurlaender crunched census data across the country and concluded that ''given the extent of residential racial segregation in the United States, it is unlikely that race-neutral income-integration policies will significantly reduce school racial segregation, although there is reason to believe that such policies are likely to have other beneficial effects on schooling.''
 Many big cities have a different problem. Simple demographics dictate that they can't really integrate their schools at all, by either race or class. Consider the numbers for Detroit (74 percent low-income students; 91 percent black), Los Angeles (77 percent low-income; 85 percent black and Hispanic), New York City (74 percent; 63 percent), Washington (64 percent; 93 percent), Philadelphia (71 percent; 79 percent), Chicago (74 percent; 88 percent) and Boston (71 percent; 76 percent). In theory, big cities can diversify their schools by class and race by persuading many more middle-class and white parents to choose public school over private school or by combining forces with the well-heeled suburbs that surround them. But short of those developments, big cities are stuck. ''The options have shrunk,'' says Tom Payzant, a former superintendent of schools in Boston.
 Notably, there are a good many districts that have evaded this predicament. They are particularly found in the South, in part because of a historical accident. Because it was predominantly rural for longer, the South has more countywide school districts than the North. An unintended consequence was to ease the way to integration. Instead of city schools filled with poor black and Hispanic kids separated from a burgeoning ring of suburban districts stocked with affluent whites (and in some places, Asians), one district controls student assignment for the region.
 Even in school districts with a mix of students of different races and income levels, however, there is no one-size-fits-all approach to socioeconomic integration, as underscored by the differences between Wake County and Jefferson County. Wake County's demographics entail that mixing kids by class, on its own, produces a fair degree of racial integration. Jefferson County's demographics don't necessarily work this way. And so civil rights lawyers suggest that districts configured like Jefferson County should continue to pursue racial diversity directly. They point to cities like Berkeley, Calif., which has an assignment plan that primarily relies on socioeconomics, but like Geography Area A also factors in the racial composition of a neighborhood to guard against resegregation along racial lines. ''It's not either-or,'' says Anurima Bhargava, an education lawyer at the NAACP Legal Defense Fund.
 In addition, there's a tacit liberal constitutional agenda at work in hybrid class-race approaches to integration: better to test Kennedy's opinion, with its support for the drawing of ''race conscious'' school boundaries, than to retreat further than is in fact required. ''For Kennedy, there are ways of taking race into account,'' John Powell says. ''It's just the method that's in question. How do you do it? We need to find out what's still permitted.'' He also points out that African-Americans are more likely than whites to be poor over generations -- a bigger hurdle than a short stint in a low-income bracket.
 The continuing attention to race aligns with the internal politics of Louisville and its suburbs. Many of today's parents grew up there and tend to remember and care about overcoming their county's Jim Crow legacy. In 1975, when a federal judge first ordered the city and its suburbs to desegregate, the Ku Klux Klan demonstrated, and the next day about 150 white protestors attacked eight school buses filled with black students. ''We had tough times here when the buses burned,'' says Ann Elmore, a black member of the Jefferson County School Board. ''We can still include race as a factor in our plan, and let me say I think it's important that we do.''
 Elsewhere in the United States, it is too soon to tell how the politics of class-based integration (Wake County) or class-plus-race (Jefferson County) will play out. Richard Kahlenberg makes the case for shifting integration policies primarily or solely to being class-based over the next decade or two. What's fair, he asks, about giving a spot in a coveted magnet program to the son of a South Asian college professor or an African-American politician over the daughter of a white waitress? Over time, such injustices threaten to sour white parents on the whole diversity enterprise, whereas giving poor kids a boost, whatever their color, is far less controversial. Polls at the time of the Supreme Court's 2003 decision in Grutter v. Bollinger, which concerned affirmative action at public universities, showed public support running 2 to 1 for giving poorer kids a leg up in going to college, as opposed to 2 to 1 against race-based preferences. In her majority opinion in the case, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor famously said she thought that racial preferences would continue only for another 25 years. Barack Obama has said, looking ahead to his daughters' college applications, that they don't deserve an admissions break -- an acknowledgment that the mix of race, affirmative action and privilege is a complicated one.
 To catch on nationwide, however, class-based integration would have to generate momentum that it has so far lacked. In his State of the Union address in January, President Bush urged action ''to help liberate poor children trapped in failing public schools.'' And yet a provision in the No Child Left Behind Act that theoretically allows students to transfer depends on the availability of open spaces elsewhere and has barely been utilized. The administration may have advocated class-based integration to the Supreme Court, but Bush officials haven't used their signature education law to make it happen. 
 If Congress were to revise No Child Left Behind to encourage more transfers of poor students to middle-class schools, would poor students drag down their better-off peers? In the end, the prospects of class-based integration will probably rise or fall on the answer to this question. Socioeconomic integration may be good for the have-nots, but if the haves think their kids are paying too great a price, they will kill it off at the polls. Richard Kahlenberg argues that the key is to ensure there is a solidly middle-class majority at as many schools as possible. That majority will then set the tone, he argues. Kahlenberg says that more research is needed to pin down the percentage of middle-class kids that a school needs to have to serve all its students well. Maybe a school can go as high as 50 percent low-income without losing ground. Or maybe it's telling that in Wake County, a proposal to increase the ceiling for low-income students from 40 percent to 50 percent died a swift death last fall after concerted protest.
 Whatever the exact answer, there is some support for the view that schools can handle a substantial fraction of poor students without sacrificing performance. In Wake County, test scores of middle-class students have risen since instituting income-based integration. Additionally, Kahlenberg points out that middle-class students are generally less influenced by a school's environment because they tend to learn more at home, and that the achievement of white students has not declined in specific schools that experienced racial (and thus some class) desegregation.
 Would schools need to track students by ability to protect middle-class students, who are more often higher-achieving than their low-income peers? Perhaps not. In a 2006 longitudinal study of an accelerated middle-school math program in Nassau County, N.Y., which grouped students heterogeneously, the authors found that students at all achievement levels, as well as minority and low-income students, were more likely than the students in tracked classes to take advanced math in high school. In addition, the kids who came into the program as math whizzes performed as well as other top-achievers in homogenous classes.
 This study underscores Ronald Ferguson's point about the value of seating students of different backgrounds and abilities in class together, as opposed to tracking them. Still, it's worth noting that less than 15 percent of the students studied in Nassau County were low-income. So the math study doesn't tell us what happens to the high-achieving middle-class kids when close to half of their classmates aren't as well off.
 At the end of February, Todd started showing the map of mermaid-shaped Geographic Area A, which she hoped to use to implement the new assignment system, to the parents of Jefferson County. Todd would start her presentation with quotes from Justice Kennedy and from Justice Breyer's dissent; she especially wanted to remind her audiences of the sentiment Breyer expressed by quoting former Justice Thurgood Marshall: ''Unless our children begin to learn together, there is little hope that our people will ever learn to live together.''
 Todd's first stop was at a forum sponsored jointly by the Urban League and the N.A.A.C.P., groups associated with Louisville's black establishment. Most of their members supported the school district, but some clergy members who worked with the city's black youth spoke against it. The Rev. John Carter, associate minister at Green Street Baptist Church, pointed to the district's black-white achievement gap and called for a return to neighborhood schools and an earlier era of black self-reliance.
 As more forums followed in high-school auditoriums across the county, white parents asked a different question: How would the new assignment plan affect their kids? Would they be forced to switch schools in second, third or fourth grade? ''We like the diversity,'' a white parent named Niki Noe told me the next morning at her son's elementary school, St. Matthews. ''But if we have to go to Chenoweth'' -- a school with lower test scores -- ''we'll pull out and go to private school.''
 That's a serious threat to the district's well-being, but one that Todd anticipated. She designed a grandfather clause for kids like Noe's, so that the new assignments would apply almost entirely to new students. Meanwhile, at every meeting, Todd polled parents on whether they cared about maintaining diverse schools. The University of Kentucky also conducted a telephone survey with 654 parents of elementary schoolers. In April, Todd called me, elated and relieved, with the results: 88 percent of parents supported enrollment guidelines ''to ensure that students learn with students from different races and backgrounds.'' Todd said she had dropped Breyer's dissent in Meredith from her presentation; she was no longer feeling frustrated with the court. ''It's been a personal emotional trek, but I think we've come out better for it,'' she said in May.
 Carter, the proponent of black-self reliance, was feeling more at ease, too. He had come to see the virtue of mixing kids by income level. ''Once I did the research, I was pretty impressed by the economic part of it,'' he said. Carter had taken note of the district's data showing that a switch to neighborhood schools, as he had first advocated, would mean that median household income would range from a high of more than $100,000 at the wealthiest school to about $8,300 at the poorest. A split between rich students and poor schools, he agreed, was the wrong path.
 It is, of course, the path taken by most of the country. And yet at the end of May, the Jefferson County School Board voted unanimously to make Geographic Area A the basis for integrating elementary schools for the 2009 school year, a new chapter in the district's history. As the schools shift to the new class-plus-race formula, the district will closely watch the test scores of black students and poor students, hoping for an upsurge, and those of middle-class students, hoping to see achievement hold steady. And if they do, maybe the court's decision in Meredith will come to seem less like a cause for regret and more like an unexpected opportunity. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Unconstitutional: The Supreme Court ruling that schools in Jefferson County, Ky., could no longer assign students solely by race has inspired a new approach to integration. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGELA SMITH)(MM38 and 39)
Pat Todd: The assignment director for the Jefferson County, Ky., school system is leading efforts to implement a new class-plus-race formula. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL A SMITH/REDUX, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM41)
Integration Milestones: Left to right: Students in an integrated classroom in Fort Myer, Va., the year of Brown v. Board of Education
black students, escorted by federal troops, leaving Little Rock Central High School
court-ordered busing in Detroit, in the wake of Milliken v. Bradley
an antibusing rally outside Boston City Hall
the Supreme Court that decided Freeman v. Pitts, which relaxed the need for court control of schools that had not fully complied with desegregation plans. (FROM LEFT: BETTMANN/CORBIS
BETTMAN/CORBIS
 ASSOCIATED PRESS.) (MM 42 and 43) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); SUPREME COURTS (91%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (91%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); SCHOOL CHOICE (75%); INDICTMENTS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%)

PERSON: STEPHEN BREYER (79%); JOHN ROBERTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (74%) KENTUCKY, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (91%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



500 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Ballet Visiting Its Island Inspiration

BYLINE: By ROBERTA HERSHENSON

DATELINE: Peekskill 

 BODY:
 QUEEN SALOTE of Tonga was a beloved and enlightened ruler, and a composer whose love songs are still sung by her people. She is also the reason Ken Ludden, artistic director of the Margot Fonteyn Academy of Ballet here, is now half a world away in a remote island kingdom in the South Pacific, about two-thirds the distance from Hawaii to New Zealand.
 In the early 1980s Mr. Ludden choreographed the ballet ''Royal Invitation: Homage to the Queen of Tonga'' to an orchestral score written by the Pulitzer-Prize winning composer Dominick Argento in 1964. The music was inspired by a memorable moment that occurred during Queen Elizabeth's coronation in 1953. When Queen Salote, the only monarch in attendance, approached Queen Elizabeth's throne and began a respectful bow in her Tongan royal garb, the British queen indicated that she should remain upright. Elizabeth's gesture of respect for the Tongan queen drew worldwide attention.
 It was a moment of grace and dignity that transcended cultures, Mr. Ludden said during a break from teaching at the Fonteyn academy. ''The world got such a gift and a treasure and lesson from Elizabeth and Salote,'' he said. He went on to express his admiration for many things Tongan, especially the kingdom's nearly 99 percent literacy rate and its strong sense of community. 
 Queen Salote died in 1965, but on Aug. 1, her grandson will be crowned King Siaosi (George) Tupou V. And Mr. Ludden's ballet, which received its premiere at the Kennedy Center in 1982, will be presented several times during the Tongan coronation festivities. 
 The ballet is a classical but comic approach to the story of how Queen Salote, traveling to England from her remote island kingdom, won the respect and affection of the British court with her warmth and engaging personality. It depicts Queen Elizabeth II's coronation from the point of view of a British emissary and his three assistants, who have traveled to Tonga to present Queen Salote with her invitation. She replies with a hula dance, leading the British group to consider her uncivilized. By the time the coronation is over, however, both Queen Elizabeth and the emissary are attempting the hula, and Queen Salote is enjoying the fox trot.
 Mr. Ludden, 55, said he introduced the Hawaiian hula into the work because authentic Tongan dance looks African, and he wanted a more Polynesian style. In the music, which the composer, now 81, said he originally wrote as an amusing ditty for the Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra, the fox trot is used to offset the pomp and circumstance of the British coronation. 
 Emeline U. Tuita, Tonga's ambassador to China and a member of the coronation committee, visited the Fonteyn academy in June along with Gary Lavaki, director of Polynesian choreography for the coronation, and saw a partial demonstration of the ballet. Later, in an e-mail message, she wrote that while ballet was ''quite foreign to the kingdom,'' Tongans were ''excellent singers by nature'' who viewed music as ''a way of life, a way of celebration, a way of rejoicing.''
 For many of the dancers in the ballet, Tonga is equally foreign. Shortly after Ms. Tuita's visit, Albena Kervanbashieva paused between the pirouettes she was practicing for her role in the ballet as one of the emissary's snooty assistants. ''One morning I came to class and he said we're going to Tonga,'' said Ms. Kervanbashieva, a Bulgarian native who also teaches at the academy. ''I didn't even know if this country existed -- it's almost surreal.'' 
 In addition to artistic preparations, Mr. Ludden had to make travel arrangements for his National Arts Group, which he founded in 1977 to provide worldwide programs in classical ballet, opera and other disciplines. The group's professional company, Les Ballets du Monde, includes top dancers from ballet companies around the world; its educational arm is the Fonteyn academy in Peekskill. 
 The dancers for the Tonga work are coming from England, France and Australia, to name a few places. They will be joined by traditional Tongan dancers, whom Mr. Ludden said he planned to incorporate into the ballet, and the national arts group is working with a film production company to make a documentary about the dancers at the coronation. There was also talk of doing a performance of the ballet at a pre-coronation banquet in Beijing at the request of King Tupou V. 
 Many members of the Tupou dynasty, which has ruled Tonga since the 1870s, were composers, and Mr. Ludden said their music, including Salote's love songs, will be performed during coronation week. In addition to an abundance of other Tongan entertainment, from brass bands to choirs singing Handel's ''Hallelujah'' chorus (translated into Tongan), the 60-year-old, British-educated King Tupou V will also be honored with the Western-style orchestral music and ballet he is known to enjoy -- coordinated by Mr. Ludden, who was asked to also serve as the director of Western classical music and dance for the weeklong celebration. 
 The coronation will take place amid a rising demand for more democracy in the kingdom of 101,000 residents (roughly an equal number of Tongan emigres live abroad and contribute to the economy with money sent back home). King Tupou V ascended to the throne immediately after the death of his 88-year-old father, King Taufa'ahau Tupou IV, on Sept. 10, 2006. His coronation was scheduled for last summer, but pro-democracy riots on Nov. 16, 2006, led to a yearlong postponement of the event. 
 New parliamentary elections were held in April, in which pro-democracy campaigners won a majority of the seats allotted to commoners. And although some of those elected face criminal charges in connection with the riots, the government Web site states that the political reform process will continue after the coronation.
 Ms. Tuita, whose older sister, Fekita Utoikamanu, is Tonga's permanent representative to the United Nations, said there was still tension, but she was not worried because a high-profile rugby match, to be broadcast during coronation week, would provide an occasion for stimulating national pride. ''Rugby being the most loved sport will cross all social boundaries, so that people will not want to spoil the efforts of their children to lift the profile of Tonga during this time,'' she wrote in e-mail message. 
 Mr. Ludden, who was swept into Dame Margot's orbit at age 15 when the famed dancer took him under her wing, said he was aware of the political situation but that he would concentrate on achieving the high artistic standards that the name Fonteyn represents. ''It puts me in this intense position,'' he said. ''I've got to live up to her legacy, and do what royalty expects.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DANCE TROUPERS: Ken Ludden, in red shirt, works with dancers on a performance to celebrate the coronation of Tonga's king, which is set for Aug. 1. Mr. Ludden created a ballet inspired by the former Queen Salote, top right. Emeline U. Tuita, a Tongan diplomat, below, visits Mr. Ludden in Peekskill. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSAN STAVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (91%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); MUSIC (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); DANCE EDUCATION (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (70%); LITERACY RATES (65%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH II (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%) TONGA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW ZEALAND (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (79%); CHINA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



501 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: As Oil Slides, Rallies for Dow and S.& P.

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
Oil prices dropped sharply last week, and the stock market rallied after four weeks of losses.
 On Sunday, the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., proposed a broad rescue plan for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage finance giants. The Federal Reserve also announced that Freddie and Fannie would have access to cheap loans from the Fed's discount window. While the scope of the Paulson plan came under criticism in Congress, the markets judged that the government was standing firmly behind the two companies. 
 Oil futures in New York settled on Friday at $128.88 a barrel, down $16.50 from the previous week. The monthly inflation report showed that the Consumer Price Index rose at a 5 percent annual rate, the highest since 1991. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 396.03 points, or 3.6 percent, to close at 11,496.57. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 21.19 points, or 1.7 percent, to close at 1,260.68. The Nasdaq composite climbed 43.7 points, or 2 percent, to close at 2,282.78. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.08 percent from 3.96 percent the previous week. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INFLATION (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (74%); FUTURES (74%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (92%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (92%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (92%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (92%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



502 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1578 words

HEADLINE: It's the Economic Stupidity, Stupid

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
THE best thing to happen to John McCain was for the three network anchors to leave him in the dust this week while they chase Barack Obama on his global Lollapalooza tour. Were voters forced to actually focus on Mr. McCain's response to our spiraling economic crisis at home, the prospect of his ascension to the Oval Office could set off a panic that would make the IndyMac Bank bust in Pasadena look as merry as the Rose Bowl.
 ''In a time of war,'' Mr. McCain said last week, ''the commander in chief doesn't get a learning curve.'' Fair enough, but he imparted this wisdom in a speech that was almost a year behind Mr. Obama in recognizing Afghanistan as the central front in the war against Al Qaeda. Given that it took the deadliest Taliban suicide bombing in Kabul since 9/11 to get Mr. McCain's attention, you have to wonder if even General Custer's learning curve was faster than his. 
 Mr. McCain still doesn't understand that we can't send troops to Afghanistan unless they're shifted from Iraq. But simple math, to put it charitably, has never been his forte. When it comes to the central front of American anxiety -- the economy -- his learning curve has flat-lined. 
 In 2000, he told an interviewer that he would make up for his lack of attention to ''those issues.'' As he entered the 2008 campaign, Mr. McCain was still saying the same, vowing to read ''Greenspan's book'' as a tutorial. Last weekend, the resolutely analog candidate told The New York Times he is at last starting to learn how ''to get online myself.'' Perhaps he'll retire his abacus by Election Day.
 Mr. McCain's fiscal ineptitude has received so little scrutiny in some press quarters that his chief economic adviser, the former Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, got a free pass until the moment he self-immolated on videoby whining about ''a nation of whiners.'' The McCain-Gramm bond, dating back 15 years, is more scandalous than Mr. Obama's connection with his pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah Wright. Mr. McCain has been so dependent on Mr. Gramm for economic policy that he sent him to newspaper editorial board meetings, no doubt to correct the candidate's numbers much as Joe Lieberman cleans up after his confusions of Sunni and Shia.
 Just two weeks before publicly sharing his thoughts about America's ''mental recession,'' Mr. Gramm laid out equally incendiary views in a Wall Street Journal profile that portrayed him as ''almost certainly'' the McCain choice for Treasury secretary. Mr. Gramm said that the former chief executive of AT&T, Ed Whitacre, was ''probably the most exploited worker in American history'' since he received only a $158 million pay package rather than the ''billions'' he deserved for his success in growing Southwestern Bell.
 But no one in the news media seemed to notice Mr. Gramm's naked expression of the mind-set he'd bring to a McCain White House. And few journalists have vetted the presumptive Treasury secretary's post-Senate history as an executive at UBS. The stock of that banking giant has lost 70 percent of its value in a year after its reckless adventures in the subprime lending market. It's now fending off federal investigation for helping the megarich avoid taxes.
 Mr. McCain made a big show of banishing Mr. Gramm after his whining ''gaffe,'' but it's surely at most a temporary suspension. When the candidate said back in January that there's nobody he knows who is stronger on economic issues than his old Senate pal, he was telling the truth. Left to his own devices -- or those of his new No. 1 economic surrogate, Carly Fiorina -- Mr. McCain is clueless. Even Arnold Schwarzenegger, a supporter, said that Mr. McCain's latest panacea for high gas prices, offshore drilling, is snake oil -- and then announced his availability to serve as energy czar in an Obama administration. 
 The term flip-flopping doesn't do justice to Mr. McCain's self-contradictory economic pronouncements because that implies there's some rational, if hypocritical, logic at work. What he serves up instead is plain old incoherence, as if he were compulsively consulting one of those old Magic 8 Balls. In a single 24-hour period in April, Mr. McCain went from saying there's been ''great economic progress'' during the Bush presidency to saying ''Americans are not better off than they were eight years ago.'' He reversed his initial condemnation of mortgage bailouts in just two weeks.
 In February Mr. McCain said he would balance the federal budget by the end of his first term even while extending the gargantuan Bush tax cuts. In April he said he'd accomplish this by the end of his second term. In July he's again saying he'll do it in his first term. Why not just say he'll do it on Inauguration Day? It really doesn't matter since he's never supplied real numbers that would give this promise even a patina of credibility. 
 Mr. McCain's plan for Social Security reform is ''along the lines that President Bush proposed.'' Or so he said in March. He came out against such ''privatization'' in June (though his policy descriptions still support it). Last week he indicated he isn't completely clear on what Social Security does. He called the program's premise -- young taxpayers foot the bill for their elders (including him) -- an ''absolute disgrace.'' 
 Given that Mr. McCain's sole private-sector job was a fleeting stint in public relations at his father-in-law's beer distributorship, he comes by his economic ignorance honestly. But there's no A team aboard the Straight Talk Express to fill him in. His campaign economist, the former Bush adviser Douglas Holtz-Eakin, could be found in the June 5 issue of American Banker suggesting even at that late date that we still don't know ''the depth of the housing crisis'' and proposing that ''monitoring is the right thing to do in these circumstances.''
 Ms. Fiorina, the ubiquitous new public face of McCain economic policy, adds nothing to the mix beyond her incessant display of corporate jargon, from ''trend lines'' to ''start-ups.'' Before she was fired at Hewlett-Packard, its stock had declined 50 percent during her five-plus years in charge. She missed earning projections -- by 23 percent in one quarter -- much as she now misrepresentsboth the Obama and McCainrecords. This month she said Mr. McCain wanted to require insurance plans to cover birth control medications along with Viagra, when in fact he had voted against it.
 Ms. Fiorina received a $42 million payout (half in cash) from H.P., according to a shareholders' subsequent lawsuit. With this inspiring resume, she now aspires to be Mr. McCain's running mate. So does the irrepressible Mitt Romney, who actually was a business whiz before serving as Massachusetts's governor. Beltway wisdom has it that the addition of such a corporate star will remedy Mr. McCain's fiscal flatulence.
 But Mr. Romney, while more plausible than Ms. Fiorina, is hardly what America wants at this desperate time. His leveraged buyout dealings as co-founder of Bain Capital induced plant closings, mass layoffs and outsourcing. If Mr. McCain truly intends to ''put our country's interests'' above politics and reach across the aisle to move the nation forward, as he constantly tells us, why not go for a vice president who's the very best fit for the huge challenges at hand? 
 The obvious choice would be Michael Bloomberg -- who, as a former Republican turned independent, would necessitate that Mr. McCain reach only halfway across the aisle, and to someone who is his friend rather than a vanquished rival he is learning to tolerate.
 Romney vs. Bloomberg is not a close contest. Bloomberg L.P. has roughly three times the revenues and employees of Bain & Company, where Mr. Romney ultimately served as chief executive. Mr. Romney rescued the Salt Lake City Olympics while running it in 2002, but Mayor Bloomberg revitalized New York, the nation's largest metropolis, after the most devastating attack in our history. The city he manages has more than twice the budget of Mr. Romney's state. 
 Yes, Mr. Bloomberg is a closet Democrat and an alpha dog who doesn't want to be a second banana. And his views on gay civil rights and abortion would roil the G.O.P. base. But Mr. Romney shared some of those same views before he flip-flopped, and besides, these are not ordinary times. Millions of Americans are losing their homes and jobs. Whole industries are going belly up. The national crisis at hand, not yesterday's culture wars, should drive the vice-presidential pick. 
 Mr. McCain reminds us every day how principled he is. That presumably means he'd risk a revolt by his party's dwindling agents of intolerance and do everything in his power to persuade Mr. Bloomberg to join his ticket in the spirit of patriotic sacrifice. The politics could be advantageous too. A Bloomberg surprise could impress independents and keep the television audience tuned in to a G.O.P. convention that will unfold in the shadow of Mr. Obama's address to 75,000 screaming fans in Denver.
 But this is fantasy political baseball, not reality. Mr. McCain, sad to say, hung up his old maverick's spurs the day he embraced the Bush tax cuts he had once opposed as ''too tilted to the wealthy.'' And Mr. Bloomberg? It's hard to picture a titan who built his empire on computer terminals investing any capital, political or otherwise, in a chief executive who is still learning how to do, as Mr. McCain puts it, ''a Google.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); RECESSION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); TALIBAN (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); BOMBINGS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BONDS (69%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (68%); AL-QAEDA (68%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (61%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); PHIL GRAMM (79%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (57%); JOE LIEBERMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



503 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: 9/11 And 4/11

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
I am reliably told by a Bush administration official that there is an old saying in Texas that goes like this: ''If all you ever do is all you've ever done, then all you'll ever get is all you ever got.''
 Could anyone possibly come up with a better description of President Bush's energy policy? America is in the midst of its worst energy crisis in years and what is the big decision our Decider has decided? Drum roll, please: Our Decider decided to lift the executive orders banning drilling for oil and natural gas off the country's shoreline -- even though he knew this was a meaningless gesture because a Congressional moratorium on drilling passed in 1981 remains in force. 
 The economist Paul Romer once said to me that ''a crisis is a terrible thing to waste.'' President Bush is well on his way to being remembered as the leader who wasted not one but two crises: 9/11 and 4/11. The average price of gasoline in the U.S. last week, according to the Energy Information Administration, was $4.11.
 After 9/11, Mr. Bush had the chance to summon the country to a great nation-building project focused on breaking our addiction to oil. Instead, he told us to go shopping. After gasoline prices hit $4.11 last week, he had the chance to summon the country to a great nation-building project focused on clean energy. Instead, he told us to go drilling. 
 Neither shopping nor drilling is the solution to our problems.
 What doesn't the Bush crowd get? It's this: We don't have a ''gasoline price problem.'' We have an addiction problem. We are addicted to dirty fossil fuels, and this addiction is driving a whole set of toxic trends that are harming our nation and world in many different ways. It is intensifying global warming, creating runaway global demand for oil and gas, weakening our currency by shifting huge amounts of dollars abroad to pay for oil imports, widening ''energy poverty'' across Africa, destroying plants and animals at record rates and fostering ever-stronger petro-dictatorships in Iran, Russia and Venezuela.
 When a person is addicted to crack cocaine, his problem is not that the price of crack is going up. His problem is what that crack addiction is doing to his whole body. The cure is not cheaper crack, which would only perpetuate the addiction and all the problems it is creating. The cure is to break the addiction.
 Ditto for us. Our cure is not cheaper gasoline, but a clean energy system. And the key to building that is to keep the price of gasoline and coal -- our crack -- higher, not lower, so consumers are moved to break their addiction to these dirty fuels and inventors are moved to create clean alternatives.
 I understand why consumers think we have a gasoline price problem -- because they are immediately hurt by higher gas prices and the pump is where most people touch our energy system. They tend not to see the bigger picture. But that is why you have a president: to explain that and lay out a response. 
 Alas, we have a president and a vice president who deny that climate change is hurting our environmental body, who refuse to see the connection between the dollars we are shifting abroad and the rise of petro-dictators, who do not care about biodiversity loss and who are apparently untroubled by the sharp decline in the dollar, partly because of all the money we are paying for oil imports. So, they have chosen to define this as a ''gasoline price crisis'' -- not an-addiction-to-a-fuel-that-is-badly-hurting-us-as-a-nation crisis.
 If you want to know what an alternative strategy might look like, read the speech that Al Gore delivered on Thursday to the bipartisan Alliance for Climate Protection. Gore, the alliance's chairman, called for a 10-year plan -- the same amount of time John F. Kennedy set for getting us to the moon -- to shift the entire country to ''renewable energy and truly clean, carbon-free sources'' to power our homes, factories and even transportation. 
 Mr. Gore proposed dramatically improving our national electricity grid and energy efficiency, while investing massively in clean solar, wind, geothermal and carbon-sequestered coal technologies that we know can work but just need to scale. To make the shift, he called for taxing carbon and offsetting that by reducing payroll taxes: Let's ''tax what we burn, not what we earn,'' he said.
 Whether you agree or not with Gore's plan, at least he has a plan for dealing with the real problem we face -- a multifaceted, multigenerational energy/environment/geopolitical problem. 
 This moment -- $4.11 -- represents Bush's last chance for a legacy. It amazes me how inadequate his response has been. By hectoring the nation to simply drill for more oil, he has profoundly underestimated the challenges we face, misread the scale of the solutions required, underappreciated the American people's willingness to sacrifice if presented with a real plan, and ignored the greatness that would accrue to our country if we led the world in clean power. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); COCAINE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRENDS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%); OIL EXTRACTION (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); COAL PRICES (66%); IMPORT TRADE (61%); GLOBAL WARMING (61%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



504 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Visit Renews Focus On Afghanistan

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL and JEFF ZELENY; Carlotta Gall reported from Afghanistan, and Jeff Zeleny from Washington. Larry Rohter contributed reporting.

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama arrived in Afghanistan on Saturday, on a high-profile foreign trip in a country that is increasingly the focus of his clash with Senator John McCain over whether the war in Iraq has been a distraction in hunting down terrorists.
 Even as Mr. Obama met privately with American troops, military leaders and Afghan officials in the eastern part of the country, Mr. McCain was questioning his judgment on foreign policy. In a radio address on Saturday, he said Mr. Obama had been wrong about the increase in troops in Iraq, a strategy Mr. McCain said should be the basis for addressing deteriorating conditions in Afghanistan as well.
 As the American presidential campaign unfolded across borders and time zones, Mr. Obama received support from an unexpected corner: Iraq's prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, told a German magazine that he endorsed the Obama plan to withdraw most American troops in a gradual timeline of 16 months.
 Mr. Obama flew to eastern Afghanistan, near Pakistan, to get a firsthand look at the region where American troops are feeling the brunt of increased attacks from militants infiltrating the border. In selecting Afghanistan as an early stop in his first overseas trip as the presumptive Democratic nominee, he was seeking to highlight what he says is the central front in the fight against terrorism. He made no public statements on his first day here. 
 The visit was part of a weeklong tour that will take him to Iraq, Israel and Western Europe on a trip intended to build impressions, and counter criticism, about his ability to serve on the world stage in a time of war. It carries political risk, particularly if Mr. Obama makes a mistake -- the three broadcast network news anchors will be along for the latter parts of the trip -- or is seen as the preferred candidate of Europe and other parts of the world. But his advisers believe it offers an opportunity for him to be seen as a leader who can improve America's image.
 ''I'm more interested in listening than doing a lot of talking,'' Mr. Obama told reporters before leaving Washington for a trip cloaked in secrecy because of security concerns. ''And I think it is very important to recognize that I'm going over there as a U.S. senator. We have one president at a time.''
 Even as the fragile economy has emerged as the chief issue on American voters' minds, the arguments that reverberated from the United States to Afghanistan served as a reminder that the nation is at war and that the candidates offer very different backgrounds and approaches when it comes to national security.
 Mr. Obama touched down here just before noon on Saturday, his aides said, after stopping to visit, and play basketball with, American troops in Kuwait. In Afghanistan, he received a briefing from military commanders at Bagram Air Base and Afghan officials at an American base in Jalalabad. He was scheduled to meet on Sunday with President Hamid Karzai before heading to Iraq.
 While the Iraq war has been one of the dominant issues in the presidential campaign, Afghanistan has moved to the forefront of the foreign policy plans of both candidates. President Bush's agreement to a ''general time horizon'' for withdrawing American troops in Iraq has opened the door to new consideration of strengthening the American and NATO presence in Afghanistan, which Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain agree on in principle.
 For months, Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, has criticized his rival for failing to visit Afghanistan and taking only one trip to Iraq. Even on Saturday, in a radio address, Mr. McCain renewed his criticism and sought to minimize Mr. Obama's trip. ''In a time of war,'' Mr. McCain said, ''the commander in chief's job doesn't get a learning curve.''
 Mr. McCain, whose campaign spokeswoman suggested that Mr. Obama was embarking on a ''campaign rally overseas,'' said his rival was not going to Afghanistan and Iraq with an open mind. ''Apparently,'' Mr. McCain said in his radio address, ''he's confident enough that he won't find any facts that might change his opinion or alter his strategy. Remarkable.''
 But Republicans were carefully watching Mr. Obama's trip, which is rare in its profile and scope for a presidential candidate. The White House also made clear Saturday that it was monitoring Mr. Obama's travels; it accidentally sent e-mail to a broad list of reporters with the news report that the Iraqi prime minister supported Mr. Obama's proposed 16-month timeline for withdrawing combat troops from Iraq.
 In an interview with Der Spiegel magazine in Germany that was released on Saturday, Mr. Maliki said he was not endorsing Mr. Obama's candidacy, but called his proposal ''the right timeframe for a withdrawal.'' 
 The magazine interview was far from helpful to the McCain campaign, and aides to Mr. McCain sought to clarify Mr. Maliki's remarks.
 ''John McCain believes withdrawal must be based on conditions on the ground,'' Mr. McCain's senior foreign policy adviser, Randy Scheunemann, said in a statement. ''Prime Minister Maliki has repeatedly affirmed the same view, and did so again today. Timing is not as important as whether we leave with victory and honor.''
 Besides visiting Iraq, Mr. Obama is also set to meet with presidents, prime ministers and opposition leaders as he travels to Jordan, Israel and three European capitals, including Berlin, where he is to give a major speech on Thursday. On the Afghanistan and Iraq leg of the trip, he is being joined by Senators Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, and Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island; the two men have been mentioned as possible running mates for Mr. Obama.
 The three senators, all of whom have been critical of the administration's policy in Iraq and Afghanistan, were casually dressed as they flew on Saturday to Jalalabad, one of 13 provincial bases that are commanded by American forces in the Regional Command East of the NATO force in Afghanistan. Many of those provinces, including Kunar, Nuristan, Nangarhar, Khost and Paktika, line the border with Pakistan's turbulent tribal areas, where militant groups allied with the Taliban and Al Qaeda have gained in strength and have increased attacks by some 40 percent in recent months. 
 The governor of Nangarhar Province, Gul Agha Shirzai, was the only Afghan official to meet the senators, along with the United States ambassador and generals. A former mujahedeen commander with a brutal past, Mr. Shirzai is nevertheless favored by the United States as someone who can get things done, and has been praised for his tough action against poppy cultivation and official corruption in his province. He is thought to have his own aspirations in Afghan presidential elections next year.
 ''Barack Obama thanked the officials of Nangarhar and the people of Nangarhar for eliminating poppy cultivation, fighting corruption,'' Mr. Shirzai said by telephone after the one-hour meeting, ''and he promised that the United States would give more help to Afghanistan and especially to Nangarhar.''
 The senators flew back to Bagram Air Base, north of Kabul, at 5 p.m., the governor said. At 6 p.m. two Chinook military helicopters landed at the United States Embassy, as two more attack helicopters circled above. 
 Afghans in Kabul said they knew nothing of Mr. Obama's visit; some interviewed on the streets near the embassy did not even know who he was. But some who had heard of him said they liked his message, in particular that he would pursue Al Qaeda in Pakistan.
 ''So far what he is talking about is what Afghans want to hear: reduce troops in Iraq, focus on Afghanistan and focus on Pakistan,'' said Ashmat Ghani, an influential tribal leader whose home province of Logar, just south of the capital, is suffering from growing instability by insurgent groups. 
 Mr. Ghani, a critic of Mr. Karzai's leadership who opposes his running for another presidential term next year, also welcomed Mr. Obama's recent criticism that the Afghan president had not come out of his bunker to lead efforts in reconstruction and building security institutions.
 ''We would welcome such a direct voice that would close up this problem,'' Mr. Ghani said.
 Yet other Afghans interviewed were skeptical that a new American president would make much difference for them. 
 ''What have we seen from the current president that we should expect anything from a future president?'' said Abdul Wakil, 28, who runs a juice stall in the street near the heavily guarded embassy in central Kabul.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Barack Obama visited American troops Saturday at Camp Arifjan in Kuwait, the first stop of his foreign trip.
 Mr. Obama greeted troops in Kuwait before flying to Afghanistan, part of a tour that includes Iraq, Israel and Western Europe. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAROD PERKIONIEMI/U.S. ARMY) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); TERRORISM (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%); BASKETBALL (50%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (93%); KUWAIT (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



505 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; VOWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Meighan Stone and Seth Amgott

BYLINE: By TEMMA EHRENFELD

 BODY:
ON her first day working in Washington for the One Campaign, an antipoverty group founded by the singer Bono, Meighan Mills Stone was introduced to Seth Amgott, a slender and handsome New Yorker who sat just feet away, frenetically working the phones on behalf of their cause.
 It was June 2005, and they were too busy to socialize as they wrangled reporters and celebrities and worked on communications strategy. The first of the Live 8 concerts, in which U2, Bono's band, was among those performing, were only a month away, to be followed by a G8 economic summit in Gleneagles, Scotland, and the buildup was intense. 
 Ms. Stone, who lived in Manhattan but who was committed to toiling weekdays in Washington for what she called her dream job, worked until midnight on publicity, consumed by excitement. It seemed to her that no one worked harder, except for Mr. Amgott. 
 The challenge brought out the best in the event team, but tempers as well. At one of the Live 8 concerts, Mr. Amgott got ''tired of the phone'' and depending on whom you ask, either threw his cell ''to'' or ''at'' Ms. Stone. Days later they journeyed to the Scotland summit, where the pressure on the team was cranked up several more notches. 
 ''We'd all been working 20 hours a day,'' said Jonathan Baum, a staff member under Mr. Amgott. ''Everybody hated everybody.''
 But Mr. Amgott, now 44, knew how to restore good cheer. At his first opportunity after the summit he hosted an elegant thank-you dinner for the communications staff in his Washington apartment. ''I'd only seen him overworked, relentlessly seeking the goal, and then I saw this amazing host,'' said Ms. Stone, 33. 
 She stayed late to help. While the two were alone at his sink, Mr. Amgott impulsively kissed her. The moment came as a complete surprise to Ms. Stone, who grew up in Virginia Beach and identifies herself as devoutly Christian. She promptly told him she wasn't open to dating a colleague. 
 Mr. Amgott hosted a second party in hopes of wooing her and made another move over the dishes. Her answer: ''We work 15 feet away from each other!'' Still, they lingered on his balcony overlooking the vibrant Adams Morgan neighborhood and discovered they shared a number of goals. ''A little house in New York City on the water, a family, and a life dedicated to God and service,'' Mr. Amgott said.
 Mr. Amgott, who hadn't been especially religious since his bar mitzvah, focused first on narrowing that 15-foot physical gap between them. Ms. Stone remained adamant. ''I didn't want to distract us from the important work we were doing,'' she said. She recalled telling Mr. Amgott: ''I don't want to just date. I want to date toward being with my husband.'' 
 Mr. Amgott responded: ''How do you know I'm not your husband?'' 
 It wasn't like him, said Dan Mangan, a friend of 17 years, ''But he'd reached the point where he was ready.''
 Mr. Amgott explained, ''I'd been focusing on work and saving the world. I wanted to make a life.'' Yes, his original plan had been to find a Jewish wife. But he had fallen, hard, for Ms. Stone, whom he described as ''beautiful, devoted and smart'' and ''a wonderful surprise.''
 In August, Mr. Amgott left the Bono group to start his own communications consultancy in Manhattan. He and Ms. Stone began dating on her weekend visits to her apartment. She grew to treasure meeting him in the depths of Penn Station, ''with chocolate and flowers.'' 
 She began to think that he just might be husband material -- someone who shared in her devotion to antipoverty work and demonstrated an attitude of engagement with others. ''Seth is endlessly interested in people and the world around him,'' Ms. Stone said. 
 She invited him to a service of the Christian City Church in Manhattan, where she sang. He took her to Congregation B'nai Jeshurun, a Manhattan synagogue he had joined. 
 ''It's the same God,'' Mr. Amgott said. As he began to attend more Christian City services, and also the church's two-month relationship course with Ms. Stone, Mr. Amgott was full of questions for the Rev. Stephen Hickson, their pastor. ''Seth was looking for more, and the more included Meighan,'' the pastor said.
 In the summer of 2006, they stole away on their first vacation, to Buenos Aires. They were watching a street dance when Mr. Amgott fell on one knee, a diamond ring in his palm. Ms. Stone said, ''Yes.'' 
 Work, which had brought them together, kept getting in the way, however. Mr. Amgott often let his private life become chaotic. Ms. Stone's was similarly full. ''We're always about to miss a plane,'' she said.
 He found his ''little house on the water'' in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn, but two years went by without wedding plans being formulated. So this June they discussed eloping. Instead, Ms. Stone hit the phones, and found an opening in Manhattan at the New Leaf Cafe in Fort Tryon Park -- one that left them only three weeks to plan their event. 
 In their usual whirl of BlackBerrying, the couple conjured up a gracious wedding on July 5. The sky over the Hudson threatened to drench the bride's Jenny Yoo gown -- but held off for the couple, who, under a bower of lindens, melded Christian and Jewish traditions. Mr. Hickson, their officiant, welcomed the couple to the ''room that God has created for you.'' 
 Then, as a blaze of orange broke through the cloud cover, a handful of guests erected a simple wedding canopy over the couple. Standing beneath it with his bride, the air crackled with the sound of Mr. Amgott stamping on a glass. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEW YORK, JULY 5 When it comes to planning a wedding in just three weeks in Fort Tryon Park, who do you call? Yourselves. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); CELEBRITIES (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); RELIGION (60%)

PERSON: BONO (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



506 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Letters Rush Is Just Getting Warmed Up

 BODY:
In his July 6 profile, Zev Chafets writes that Rush Limbaugh fears ''being branded a racist,'' but ignores numerous examples of Limbaugh's inflammatory rhetoric. Limbaugh, among other things, claimed Democrats concerned about Darfur were merely courting the black voting bloc; said this year, ''Democrats will bend over, grab the ankles and say, 'Have your way with me' '' to African-Americans and gays; claimed Senator Barack Obama's ''only chance of winning is that he's black''; labeled Obama ''an affirmative-action candidate''; and, according to The Washington Post, ''often played 'Movin' on Up' when referring to Carol Moseley Braun.'' Chafets writes that ''serious people'' have called Limbaugh ''a serial liar,'' without actually citing the abundant evidence. For example, after calling service members who support U.S. withdrawal from Iraq ''phony soldiers,'' Limbaugh vehemently denied he had done so and, to refute the charge, played a spliced audio clip of his comments, while falsely claiming he was providing the ''entire'' segment at issue. 
 Readers have a right to expect that in 7,000 words, The New York Times would find the space to construct a real profile rather than a piece that glosses over what makes Limbaugh so controversial.
 Eric Burns
 Chief of Staff
 Media Matters for America
 Washington
 Those who demonize The New York Times as an overwhelmingly liberal pinko broadsheet would have this myth dispelled by Chafets's piece. I came away with a far better understanding of Limbaugh, his beliefs and who he is than I might ever hope to read elsewhere. Chafets's evenhandedness is typical of the liberal Democratic approach, which often appeals to reason rather than resorting to smear campaigns, invective, near-slander and appeals to more base instincts.
 Ben Myers
 Harvard, Mass.
 I've listened to Rush for more than 10 years on the radio, so I think that I ''know him'' -- and in my opinion, Chafets gave a superbly honest account of Rush. Love Rush's conservative message or hate it, he's one of the best broadcasters in the world, and Chafets did a masterful job.
 Joe Wilson
 Dallas
 Zev Chafets has the apparent luxury of not being a moderate or liberal or progressive living deep in the red South. Most places here, you don't discuss your politics openly because Limbaugh's dittoheads are ready to excoriate you with the clever turns of phrase they've heard their master recite a thousand times, and some of those dittoheads are running your local government, your school, your workplace. I expect if Chafets was familiar with this feeling, he wouldn't have shirked what we understand to be a journalist's duty to delve into a subject and examine it from multiple angles. When sober histories are written about Limbaugh, they will not describe him as a potent intellect but as the most important culprit in the dumbing-down of American political discourse in the post-Reagan period.
 Glen Ford
 Austin, Tex.
 Rush Limbaugh laments, in reference to Barack Obama, ''We can't talk about his wife, can't talk about his preacher, can't talk about his terrorist friends, can't talk about his voting record, can't talk about his religion.'' To the contrary, all of the above have been the subject of repeated coverage across the media, with the Reverend Wright issue alone dominating the airwaves for at least two weeks. So ''we'' can indeed talk about these matters, repeatedly and at length. What we can no longer do is talk about them without a prompt and pointed rebuttal. When the Swift boaters attacked the war record of John Kerry, they did so largely with impunity. And even now, many in the media are still perpetuating the false claim that Al Gore said he invented the Internet. But not this time. The Democrats have learned that silence is not a virtue, and the Obama campaign is quick to repudiate false charges and clarify distortions. No longer are the conservative pundits allowed to own the conversation.
 Donnette Dolzall
 Newtown, Conn.
 With one photo, Nigel Parry has captured the many dimensions of Rush Limbaugh's psyche.
 Through what could be labeled the Face of Evil, we are shown clear evidence of unbridled narcissism, rampant greed, self-indulgence, crafty conservatism, pomposity, defiance, contempt, oral gratification and distressing taste in neckties. They are all there as well as the manicured, baby-bottom-soft hands that attest to an abhorrence of any form of manual labor.
 Wes Pedersen
 Chevy Chase, Md.
 Rush is undoubtedly talented, entertaining, relevant and worthy of the print space and attention afforded him in Chafets's profile. But to read the article you would never know that for almost 20 years Rush has presided over a steady stream of jaunty homophobia and ebullient, though comically veiled, racism. 
 Mark J. Mcpherson
 Rutherford, N.J.
 Listening to Rush Limbaugh is my dirty little secret. I am shocked by his distortions, horrified by his character assassinations, disgusted by his hypocrisy -- and yet I tune in. Part of the fun is shouting back at the radio; part is the satisfaction of believing he is squirming in his seat watching the Bush administration fiddle while Rome burns. I look forward to hearing him ratchet up the nastiness as the election approaches; gratified there is nothing he can do about the outcome.
 Margie Riordan
 New Canaan, Conn.
 The most important thing I learned about Limbaugh is that he is first and foremost a capitalist. It seems that if being a liberal appeared to be the most profitable way to go, that's what he would be preaching today.
 Dan Welsch
 Patchogue, N.Y.
 Rush Limbaugh might count Ronald Reagan and William Buckley among his heroes, but he differs from them and many other conservatives in at least one stark respect: his powerful streak of intellectual relativism. Whether discussing economics, legal issues or scientific questions like global warming, Limbaugh insists to his listeners that claims to expertise (particularly by those he labels liberals) are bunk and that alleged truths are just the infinitely malleable products of political ideology. Unfortunately, he never even tries to square this thoroughgoing relativism with the bedrock certainty with which he holds his own set of right-wing dogmas.
 Perry Dane
 Professor of Law
 Rutgers University
 Camden, N.J.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NIGEL PARRY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); WRITERS (73%); LIBEL & SLANDER (71%); JOURNALISM (69%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (56%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: RUSH LIMBAUGH (92%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); JOE WILSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



507 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1755 words

HEADLINE: Too Big to Fail?

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
IN the narrative that has governed American commercial life for the last quarter-century, saving companies from their own mistakes was not supposed to be part of the government's job description. Economic policy makers in the United States took swaggering pride in the cutthroat but lucrative form of capitalism that was supposedly indigenous to their frontier nation. 
 Through this uniquely American lens, saving businesses from collapse was the sort of thing that happened on other shores, where sentimental commitments to social welfare trumped sharp-edged competition. Weak-kneed European and Asian leaders were too frightened to endure the animal instincts of a real market, the story went. So they intervened time and again, using government largess to lift inefficient firms to safety, sparing jobs and limiting pain but keeping their economies from reaching full potential. 
 There have been recent interventions in America, of course -- the taxpayer-backed bailout of Chrysler in 1979, and the savings and loan rescue of 1989. But the first happened under Jimmy Carter, a year before Americans embraced Ronald Reagan and his passion for unfettered markets. And the second was under George H. W. Bush, who did not share that passion. 
 So it made for a strange spectacle last weekend as the current Bush administration, which does cast itself in the Reagan mold, hastily prepared a bailout package to offer the government-sponsored mortgage companies, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The reasoning behind this rescue effort -- like the reasoning behind the government-induced takeover of Bear Stearns by J. P. Morgan Chase just a month before -- sounded no different from that offered in defense of many a bailout in Japan and Europe: 
 The mortgage giants were too big to be allowed to fail. 
 Big indeed. Together, Fannie and Freddie own or guarantee nearly half of the nation's $12 trillion worth of home mortgages. If they collapse, so may the whole system of finance for American housing, threatening a most unfortunate string of events: First, an already plummeting real estate market might crater. Then the banks that have sunk capital into American homes would slip deeper into trouble. And the virus might spread globally. 
 The central banks of China and Japan are on the hook for hundreds of billions of dollars worth of Fannie's and Freddie's bonds -- debts they took on assuming that the two companies enjoyed the backing of the American government, argues Brad Setser, an economist at the Council on Foreign Relations. 
 Commercial banks from South Korea to Sweden hold investments linked to American mortgages. Their losses would mount if American homeowners suddenly couldn't borrow. The global financial system could find itself short of capital and paralyzed by fear, hobbling economic growth in many lands.
 Nobody with a meaningful office in Washington was in the mood for any of that, so the rescue nets were readied. The treasury secretary, Henry Paulson Jr., announced that the government was willing to use taxpayer funds to buy shares in Fannie and Freddie. The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben Bernanke, said the central bank would lend them money.
 The details were up in the air as the week ended, but some sort of bailout offer was on the table -- one that could ultimately cost hundreds of billions of dollars. Whatever the dent to national bravado, or to the free-enterprise ideology, the phrase ''too big to fail'' suddenly carried an American accent. 
 ''Some institutions really are too big to fail, and that's the way it is,'' said Douglas W. Elmendorf, a former Treasury and Federal Reserve Board economist who is now at the Brookings Institution in Washington. ''There are no good options.''
 Still, there are ironies. Since World War II, the United States has been the center of global finance, and it has used that position to virtually dictate the conditions under which many other nations -- particularly developing countries -- can get access to capital. Letting weak companies fail has been high on the list. 
 Mr. Paulson, who announced the bailout, made his name as chief executive of Goldman Sachs, the Wall Street investment giant, where he pried open new markets to foreign investment. As treasury secretary, he has served as chief proselytizer for American-style capitalism, counseling the tough love of laissez-faire. In particular, he has leaned on China to let the value of its currency float freely, and has criticized its banks for shoveling money to companies favored by the Communist Party in order to limit joblessness and social instability.
 All through Japan's lost decade of the 1990s and afterward, American officials chided Tokyo for its unwillingness to let the forces of creative destruction take down the country's bloated banks and the zombie companies they nurtured. The best way out of stagnation, Americans counseled, was to let weak companies die, freeing up capital for a new crop of leaner entrants.
 But as Japan's leaders engaged in bailouts and bookkeeping fictions to keep banks and companies breathing, they offered those words of justification now heard here: The companies were too big to fail. 
 In 2002, the government engineered the rescue of Daiei, a huge, debt-laden grocery chain. In 2003, it injected some $17 billion into Resona Bank to keep it upright. Each time, Japan's leaders said failure was not an option. It would pull too many others into a downward spiral. 
 Today, among strict adherents of laissez-faire economics, the offer to bail out Fannie and Freddie is already being criticized as a trip down the Japanese path of putting off immediate pain while loading up the costs further along.
 For one thing, this argument goes, taxpayers -- who now confront plunging house prices, a drop on Wall Street and soaring costs for food and fuel -- will ultimately pay the costs. To finance a bailout, the government can either pull more money from citizens directly, or the Fed can print more money -- a step that encourages further inflation.
 ''They are going to raise the cost of living for every American,'' said Peter Schiff, president of Euro Pacific Capital Inc., a Connecticut-based brokerage house that focuses on international investments. ''The government is debasing the value of our money. Freddie and Fannie need to fail. They are too big to save.''
 Using public money to spare Fannie and Freddie would increase the public debt, which now exceeds $9.4 trillion. The United States has been financing itself by leaning heavily on foreigners, particularly China, Japan and the oil-rich nations of the Persian Gulf. Were they to become worried that the United States might not be able to pay up, that would force the Treasury to offer higher rates of interest for its next tranche of bonds. And that would increase the interest rates that Americans must pay for houses and cars, putting a drag on economic growth.
 Meanwhile, as American debts swell and foreigners hold more of it, nervousness grows that, some day, this arrangement will end badly. The dollar has been declining in value against other currencies. Some foreigners have begun to hedge their bets by buying more euros. ''Obviously, this is going to come to an end,'' Mr. Schiff said. ''Foreigners are not charitable organizations, and they're going to demand that we pay them back.''
 No single country owning large amounts of dollar-based investments is inclined to dump them abruptly; nobody aims to start a panic. But fears have begun to grow that one day a country may get spooked that another is about to dump its dollars -- and that could trigger pre-emptive panic selling.
 ''Foreigners could decide it's just not worth the risk and sell,'' says Andrew Tilton, an economist at Goldman Sachs. ''The really dire scenarios have become a lot more likely than they were a year or two ago.'' 
 Still, as Mr. Tilton and others are aware, one fundamental reality continues to offer assurances that foreigners will still buy American debt: 
 In the global economy of the moment, the United States itself is too big to fail.
 The logic for that assurance goes like this:
 The American consumer has for decades served as the engine of world commerce, using borrowed cash to snap up the accoutrements of modern living -- clothes and computers and cars now manufactured, in whole or in part, in factories from Asia to Latin America. Eliminate the American wherewithal to shop, and the pain would ripple out to multiple shores.
 Globalization, in other words, allowed China and Japan to amass the fortunes they have been lending to the United States.
 But globalization also emboldened American capitalists to take huge risks they might have otherwise avoided -- like borrowing to erect forests of unsold homes from California to Florida, delivering the speculative disaster of the day. They were operating with bedrock confidence that money would never run out. Someone would always buy American debt, delivering more cash for the next go. 
 And this same interconnectedness appears to have reassured regulators in Washington about the health of the American financial system, as they declined to intervene against highly speculative lending during the real estate boom. Mortgages were being distributed to investors around the globe, and so were the risks, the regulators reasoned. Anyone who bought into that risk would have a strong interest in seeing that the American financial system stayed upright.
 In other words, in the estimation of people in control of money, the United States cannot be allowed to collapse, just as Fannie and Freddie cannot be allowed to fail. Too much is riding on their survival.
 The central truth of that logic still seems to be apparent as the Treasury keeps finding takers for American debt.
 So the government offers its rescue of the mortgage companies, and foreigners keep stocking the government's coffers. ''They don't want the U.S. to go into the worst downturn since the Depression,'' Mr. Tilton says.
 But all the while, the debt mounts along with the costs of an ultimate day of reckoning. Debate grows about the wisdom of leaning on foreign credit, and about how much longer Americans will retain the privilege of spending and investing money that isn't really theirs. 
 Bailouts amount to mortgaging the future to stave off the wolf howling at the door. The likelihood of a painful reckoning is diminished, while the costs of a reckoning -- should one come -- are increased. 
 The costs are getting big.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: RESCUE: Christopher Cox, the S.E.C. chairman, left, and Ben Bernanke, the Fed chairman, center, hear Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson tell senators he wants authority to help save Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(WK4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER AND MARIA HOEY)(WK1)
CHARTS: Titans of American Housing: THE BIGGEST HOLDERS OF U.S. MORTGAGE DEBT Together, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac own or guarantee 42 percent of all U.S. mortgage debt.
AN EVEN LARGER SHARE OF NEW LOANS (Sources: Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight (left)
 Inside Mortgage Finance (right)(WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (61%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (60%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (54%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (59%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (54%); JPM (LSE) (54%); 8634 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); CHRISTOPHER COX (59%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); HENRY PAULSON (57%); GEORGE H W BUSH (51%); JIMMY CARTER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



508 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: LETTERS Of Oil and Taxes

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Asleep at the Spigot'' (July 6), about the background of the current oil crisis: 
 Higher gasoline consumption taxes should be a part of a sensible energy policy. Without an increase in the cost of fuel to consumers, fuel efficiency standards alone do not reduce demand for driving, and have resulted in the unintended consequence of Americans driving their cars more than ever. Consumption taxes are far more effective than fuel economy regulations at influencing not only the automobile industry, but also the behavior of the consumer.
 High fuel taxes have worked exactly as intended in other industrialized nations, where fuel was already expensive for consumers before the run-up in oil prices.
 As a result, they are already demanding far more fuel-efficient vehicles, and carmakers have responded to their needs. Additionally, other developed countries invest heavily in a transportation infrastructure that is decades ahead of our own, especially in the areas of intercity rail and urban public transportation.
 Robert J. Kogan
 Philadelphia, July 7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (92%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); EXCISE TAX (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); GASOLINE (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (88%); FUEL TAX (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); TAX LAW (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (88%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (87%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008



509 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; RIVER VIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: Once Again, the Hudson Is at a Turning Point

BYLINE: By DIANA MARSZALEK

DATELINE: TARRYTOWN 

 BODY:
 THE east bank of the Hudson River where Tarrytown meets Sleepy Hollow offers a snapshot of the riverfront's modern history.
 There, separated by a new condominium development, are remnants of the riverfront's early- and mid-20th century industrialization: the site of a former General Motors plant, where the environmental cleanup is so extensive that the developer chosen to build housing, office and retail space recently pulled out, and a former asphalt plant, whose tarlike byproduct used to bubble up in the Hudson itself.
 Set back a bit is an apartment building for low-income tenants that opened in 1966, a time when people of means shunned proximity to a river fouled by sewage, fuel and garbage.
 Outshining them all are promises of the riverfront's future: the condominiums -- two new high-end residential complexes (one still under construction) -- that are among the 17,000 waterfront units planned on both sides, from Yonkers to Albany, according to Scenic Hudson, a Poughkeepsie-based environmental group. 
 The Hudson may be at its cleanest and most desirable since federal clean-water laws were enacted nearly 40 years ago, state officials and environmentalists said, but its future health is still uncertain.
 The river, its environment and its inhabitants are threatened by aging sewage- and storm-water treatment systems built in the 1970s to meet that era's environmental standards, by unprecedented development and by global issues like climate change, state officials and environmentalists agree. 
 Though developers today have the ability -- and a mandate from state and community officials -- to make new construction more ecofriendly than ever, developing the waterfront poses inherent environmental risks, said Wendy Rosenbach, a State Department of Environmental Conservation spokeswoman. 
 Building along the riverfront, where the surface naturally absorbs water, increases the risk of flooding, which forces untreated sewage and storm water into the river, she said. Increased development also threatens natural ecosystems like wetlands, which means that habitats can be destroyed, Ms. Rosenbach said.
 So the quandary for government officials, environmentalists and builders is how to remedy past abuses of the river while forging ahead with plans to create a waterfront that are economically feasible yet environmentally friendly.
 ''We and the developers view the water as an asset,'' said Chuck Lesnick, the City Council president in Yonkers, where the challenges include evaluating the environmental impacts of major developments proposed for its waterfront. ''You don't want to kill the asset. You want to enhance it.''
 Still, there is no quick fix for sustaining the Hudson as a sustainable ecosystem and a major economic and recreational attraction, state officials said.
 ''While significant progress has been made, there are still real issues,'' said William C. Janeway, the Department of Environmental Conservation's regional director for the Lower Hudson Valley and Catskills region, whose job includes protecting the river's health.
 The most recent indication of that, officials and environmentalists said, is a report released in May by Riverkeeper, a Tarrytown-based environmental-watchdog group, claiming that 10 of the Hudson's 13 key fish species have declined since tracking began in the 1980s. 
 Soon after that report was issued, Gov. David A. Patterson announced plans to restore the population of fish, including the American shad, that once drove a thriving fishing industry. 
 The number of licensed commercial Hudson fishermen, which peaked at about 1,000 in the early 1900s, has dwindled to about 30, including just four who pursue shad seriously, said John Mylod, a former executive director of Clearwater, a Poughkeepsie-based environmental group. 
 There is a moratorium on catching Atlantic sturgeon, whose population was so robust in the Hudson Valley around the turn of the 20th century that it was called ''Albany beef.''
 Alex Matthiessen, Riverkeeper's president, attributed the fish decline largely to five power plants along the Hudson, including the Indian Point nuclear plant. Riverkeeper has long contended that the plants have not adopted technology to reduce the number of fish killed, though studies conducted by the power plant operators show that the fish populations are healthy.
 There are other contributors to the fish deaths, Mr. Matthiessen said, including climate changes that have raised the Hudson's temperature and excessive offshore fishing, which reduces the number of fish that return to spawn. The number of shad spawning in the river has declined by 90 percent over the last 20 years, he said.
 Untreated sewage and other contaminants also harm fish, Mr. Matthiessen said. They get into the river primarily when heavy rain overloads water- and sewage-treatment systems put in place decades ago that need repair, he said. 
 No environmental factor affecting the river is more visible than the wave of development planned to invigorate riverfronts throughout the Hudson Valley.
 Proposals for developing the riverbanks, north from Yonkers -- where plans call for projects from high-rise residences to a minor league ballpark -- are in the works. The demand is there: seats at waterfront restaurants in Hastings-on-Hudson, Irvington and Dobbs Ferry are not easy to get. Apartments, like the Hudson South building in Yonkers, are fully occupied. 
 Though municipalities, environmentalists and developers generally agree that creating vibrant communities on underused and often-contaminated waterfront property is good, doing so while meeting competing interests is easier said than done.
 Municipalities often see riverfront development as a way to pump new life into dormant areas and have someone else pay for the environmental cleanup and public improvements needed to make such projects succeed. Environmentalists usually seek preservation of river views and safeguards to control density and keep the waterfront public.
 The Department of Environmental Conservation has adopted new guidelines for development. They include measures to protect the river from pollution and to reinvigorate communities, rather than creating suburban sprawl, and to preserve and restore the natural shoreline, thus boosting the river's natural ecosystem, Mr. Janeway said.
 Yet developers faced with steep costs for cleaning up former industrial sites cannot necessarily afford to scale back projects enough to preserve vistas and offer public access, said Geoffrey Thompson, a spokesman for developers. 
 That dilemma is best exemplified by the decision by Roseland Properties to pull out of the Lighthouse Landing project on the old G.M. site in Tarrytown, said Mr. Thompson, who formerly represented Roseland. 
 ''Anyone who wants to develop the waterfront knows what they are in for'' in meeting environmental standards, he said. ''But the hope is that the reward is big enough to make it worthwhile.''
 With the potential conflicts that exist, Mr. Janeway said clean-river advocates were at a more difficult juncture today than they were 40 years ago, when officials were faced with turning around a river that had long been treated as a dump for industrial waste and sewage.
 Nonetheless, Mr. Janeway said that he hoped that creating systems under which the river can thrive would be the gift of next year's 400th anniversary celebration of Henry Hudson's historic voyage up the river, just as Bear Mountain and Harriman State Parks are legacies of the tricentennial.
 ''The easier work'' -- creating an infrastructure for clean water -- is done, he said. ''At this 100-year juncture, we have the harder work of creating a sustainable future for the Hudson River.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 10, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on July 20 about the state of the Hudson River misstated the reasons that Roseland Properties decided to pull out of a development project on the site of a former General Motors plant in Sleepy Hollow. Roseland cited increasing costs associated with environmental restoration and a lack of agreement with the Village of Sleepy Hollow on a final plan; it did not cite the cost of environmental cleanup of the G.M. site itself. (General Motors has paid for that cleanup since the plant closed in 1996.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SHARP EYE: John Lipscomb patrols the Hudson for Riverkeeper, an environmental-watchdog group. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSAN STAVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE1)
 GOING UP: The Ichabod's Landing riverfront condominium complex, at top, sits next to industrial sites. New water-side homes, like this one in Nyack, are sprouting on both sides of the river. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSAN STAVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (87%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (86%); HISTORY (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (74%); MOUNTAINS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); WETLANDS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (71%); ASPHALT PRODUCTS MFG (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); FLOODS & FLOODING (70%); WATER QUALITY (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%); CITIES (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



510 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: LETTERS What Economists Want From Washington

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''What if the Candidates Pandered to Economists?'' (Economic View, July 13), N. Gregory Mankiw listed free trade and the repeal of antidumping laws as two of the policies that presidential candidates should embrace if they want economists' support.
But these two policies conflict. Antidumping laws ensure fair and free competition to help rid the market of distortions. They also ensure that workers and businesses are not harmed by unfair trade practices that weaken our economy and contribute to layoffs.
Both presidential candidates and Congress should strongly support these laws.
Scott Paul
Washington, July 14
The writer is executive director of the Alliance for American Manufacturing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (92%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); WRITERS (86%); LAYOFFS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2010



511 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE DEBT TRAP; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3188 words

HEADLINE: Given a Shovel, Digging Deeper Into Debt

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
The collection agencies call at least 20 times a day. For a little quiet, Diane McLeod stashes her phone in the dishwasher.
But right up until she hit the wall financially, Ms. McLeod was a dream customer for lenders. She juggled not one but two mortgages, both with interest rates that rose over time, and a car loan and high-cost credit card debt. Separated and living with her 20-year-old son, she worked two jobs so she could afford her small, two-bedroom ranch house in suburban Philadelphia, the Kia she drove to work, and the handbags and knickknacks she liked.
Then last year, back-to-back medical emergencies helped push her over the edge. She could no longer afford either her home payments or her credit card bills. Then she lost her job. Now her home is in foreclosure and her credit profile in ruins.
Ms. McLeod, who is 47, readily admits her money problems are largely of her own making. But as surely as it takes two to tango, she had partners in her financial demise. In recent years, those partners, including the financial giants Citigroup, Capital One and GE Capital, were collecting interest payments totaling more than 40 percent of her pretax income and thousands more in fees. 
Years of spending more than they earn have left a record number of Americans like Ms. McLeod standing at the financial precipice. They have amassed a mountain of debt that grows ever bigger because of high interest rates and fees.
While the circumstances surrounding these downfalls vary, one element is identical: the lucrative lending practices of America's merchants of debt have led millions of Americans -- young and old, native and immigrant, affluent and poor -- to the brink. More and more, Americans can identify with miners of old: in debt to the company store with little chance of paying up.
It is not just individuals but the entire economy that is now suffering. Practices that produced record profits for many banks have shaken the nation's financial system to its foundation. As a growing number of Americans default, banks are recording hundreds of billions in losses, devastating their shareholders.
To reduce the risk of a domino effect, the Bush administration fashioned an emergency rescue plan last week to shore up Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the nation's two largest mortgage finance companies, if necessary.
To be sure, the increased availability of credit has contributed mightily to the American economy and has allowed consumers to make big-ticket purchases like homes, cars and college educations.
But behind the big increase in consumer debt is a major shift in the way lenders approach their business. In earlier years, actually being repaid by borrowers was crucial to lenders. Now, because so much consumer debt is packaged into securities and sold to investors, repayment of the loans takes on less importance to those lenders than the fees and charges generated when loans are made.
Lenders have found new ways to squeeze more profit from borrowers. Though prevailing interest rates have fallen to the low single digits in recent years, for example, the rates that credit card issuers routinely charge even borrowers with good credit records have risen, to 19.1 percent last year from 17.7 percent in 2005 -- a difference that adds billions of dollars in interest charges annually to credit card bills.
Average late fees rose to $35 in 2007 from less than $13 in 1994, and fees charged when customers exceed their credit limits more than doubled to $26 a month from $11, according to CardWeb, an online publisher of information on payment and credit cards.
Mortgage lenders similarly added or raised fees associated with borrowing to buy a home -- like $75 e-mail charges, $100 document preparation costs and $70 courier fees -- bringing the average to $700 a mortgage, according to the Department of Housing and Urban Development. These ''junk fees'' have risen 50 percent in recent years, said Michael A. Kratzer, president of FeeDisclosure.com, a Web site intended to help consumers reduce fees on mortgages.
''Today the focus for lenders is not so much on consumer loans being repaid, but on the loan as a perpetual earning asset,'' said Julie L. Williams, chief counsel of the Comptroller of the Currency, in a March 2005 speech that received little notice at the time.
Lenders have been eager to expand their reach. They have honed sophisticated marketing tactics, gathering personal financial data to tailor their pitches. They have spent hundreds of millions of dollars on advertising campaigns that make debt sound desirable and risk-free. The ads are aimed at people who urgently need loans to pay for health care and other necessities.
It is not just financial conglomerates that are profiting on consumer debt loads. Some manufacturers and retailers can generate more income from internal financing arms that lend to their customers than from their primary businesses.
Tallying what the lenders have made off Ms. McLeod over the years is revealing. In 2007, when she earned $48,000 before taxes, she was charged more than $20,000 in interest on her various loans.
Her first mortgage, originated by the EquiFirst Corporation, charged her $14,136 a year, and her second, held by CitiFinancial, added $4,000. Capital One, a credit card company that charged her 28 percent interest on her balances, billed $1,400 in annual interest. GE Money Bank levied 27 percent on the $1,500 or so that Ms. McLeod owed on an account she had with a local jewelry store, adding more than $400.
Olde City Mortgage, the company that arranged one of Ms. McLeod's loans, made $6,000 on a single refinancing, and EquiFirst received $890 in a loan origination fee.
Such fees and interest rates are a growing burden on Americans, especially those who rely on credit cards to make ends meet.
And recent changes in the bankruptcy laws, supported by financial services firms, make it all the harder for consumers, especially those with modest incomes, to get out from under their debt by filing for bankruptcy.
But with so many borrowers in trouble, some bankruptcy experts and regulators are beginning to focus on the responsibilities of lenders, like requiring them to make loans only if they are suitable to the borrowers applying for them.
The Federal Reserve Board, for instance, recently put into effect rules barring a lender from making a loan without regard to the borrower's ability to repay it.
Henry E. Hildebrand III, a Bankruptcy Court trustee in Nashville since 1982 and one of the nation's busiest, has seen at first hand what happens when lenders do not take some responsibility for loans that go bad. ''I look across the table at people who are right out of school and have more debt than they can handle, and they are starting out life in a bankruptcy,'' he said.
Ms. McLeod used debt to keep going until she was fired from her job in March for writing inappropriate e-mail messages. Since then, she has been selling her coveted handbags and other items on eBay to raise money while waiting to be evicted from her home.
''I think a lot of people in this country have a lot more debt than they let the outside world know,'' Ms. McLeod said. ''I worked in retail for five years. And men, women would open up their wallets to pay and the credit cards that were in some of the wallets just amazed me.''
Borrowing to Shop
For decades, America's shift from thrift could be summed up in this familiar phrase: When the going gets tough, the tough go shopping. Whether for a car, home, vacation or college degree, the nation's lenders stood ready to assist.
Companies offered first and second mortgages and home equity lines, marketed credit cards for teenagers and helped college students to amass upward of $100,000 in debt by graduation.
Every age group up to the elderly was the target of sophisticated ad campaigns and direct mail programs. ''Live Richly'' was a Citibank message. ''Life Takes Visa,'' proclaims the nation's largest credit card issuer.
Eliminating negative feelings about indebtedness was the idea behind MasterCard's ''Priceless'' campaign, the work of McCann-Erickson Worldwide Advertising, which came out in 1997.
''One of the tricks in the credit card business is that people have an inherent guilt with spending,'' Jonathan B. Cranin, executive vice president and deputy creative director at the agency, said when the commercials began. ''What you want is to have people feel good about their purchases.''
Mortgage lenders took to cold-calling homeowners to persuade them to refinance. Done to reduce borrowers' monthly payments, serial refinancings allowed lenders to charge thousands of dollars in loan processing fees, including appraisals, credit checks, title searches and document preparation fees.
Not surprisingly, such practices generated dazzling profits for the nation's financial companies. And since 2005, when the bankruptcy law was changed, the credit card industry has increased its earnings 25 percent, according to a new study by Michael Simkovic, a former James M. Olin fellow in Law and Economics at Harvard Law School.
The ''2005 bankruptcy reform benefited credit card companies and hurt their customers,'' Mr. Simkovic concluded in his study. He said that even though sponsors of the bankruptcy bill promised that consumers would benefit from lower borrowing costs as delinquent borrowers were held more accountable, the cost of borrowing from credit card companies has actually increased anywhere from 5 percent to 17 percent.
Among the most profitable companies were Ms. McLeod's creditors.
For Capital One, which charges her 28 percent interest on her credit card, net interest income, after provisions for loan losses, has risen a compounded 25 percent a year since 2002.
GE Money Bank, which levied a 27 percent rate on Ms. McLeod's debt and is part of the GE Capital Corporation, generated profits of $4.3 billion in 2007, more than double the $2.1 billion it earned in 2003.
Because many of these large institutions pool the loans they make and sell them to investors, they are not as vulnerable when the borrowers default. At the end of 2007, for example, one-third of Capital One's $151 billion in managed loans had been sold as securities.
Officials at General Electric declined to comment. Capital One did not return phone calls.
As the profits in this indebtedness grew, financial companies moved aggressively to protect them, spending millions of dollars to lobby against any moves lawmakers might take to rein in questionable lending.
But consumers are voicing anger over lending practices. A recent proposal by the Federal Reserve Board to limit some abusive practices has drawn more than 11,000 letters since May. Most are from irate borrowers.
A Rising Tide of Bills
Just two generations ago, America was a nation of mostly thrifty people living within their means, even setting money aside for unforeseen expenses.
Today, Americans carry $2.56 trillion in consumer debt, up 22 percent since 2000 alone, according to the Federal Reserve Board. The average household's credit card debt is $8,565, up almost 15 percent from 2000.
College debt has more than doubled since 1995. The average student emerges from college carrying $20,000 in educational debt.
Household debt, including mortgages and credit cards, represents 19 percent of household assets, according to the Fed, compared with 13 percent in 1980.
Even as this debt was mounting, incomes stagnated for many Americans. As a result, the percentage of disposable income that consumers must set aside to service their debt -- a figure that includes monthly credit card payments, car loans, mortgage interest and principal -- has risen to 14.5 percent from 11 percent just 15 years ago.
By contrast, the nation's savings rate, which exceeded 8 percent of disposable income in 1968, stood at 0.4 percent at the end of the first quarter of this year, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis.
More ominous, as Americans have dug themselves deeper into debt, the value of their assets has started to fall. Mortgage debt stood at $10.5 trillion at the end of last year, more than double the $4.8 trillion just seven years earlier, but home prices that were rising to support increasing levels of debt, like home equity lines of credit, are now dropping.
The combination of increased debt, falling asset prices and stagnant incomes does not threaten just imprudent borrowers. The entire economy has become vulnerable to the spending slowdown that results when consumers like Ms. McLeod hit the wall.
That First Credit Card
Growing up in Philadelphia, Diane McLeod never knew financial hardship, she said. Her father owned six pizza shops and her mother was a homemaker.
''There was always money for everything, whether it was bills or food shopping or a spur-of-the-moment vacation,'' Ms. McLeod recalled. ''If they worried about money, they never let us know.''
Hers was a pay-as-you-go family, she said. Although money was not discussed much around the dinner table, credit card debt was not a part of her parents' financial plan, and sometimes personal purchases were put off.
When Ms. McLeod married at 18, she and her husband carried no credit cards. She stayed at home after her son was born, but when she was 27 her husband died.
She remarried a few years later and continued as a homemaker until her son turned 13. Between her husband's job laying carpets and her own, money was not exactly tight.
In the mid-'90s, Ms. McLeod got several credit cards. When the marriage began to founder, she said, she shopped to make herself feel better.
Earning a livable wage at Verizon Yellow Pages, Ms. McLeod finally decided to leave her marriage and buy a home of her own in February 2003. The cost was $135,000, and her mortgage required no down payment because her credit history was good.
''I was very proud of myself when I bought the house,'' Ms. McLeod explained. ''I thought I would live here till I died.'' Adding to her burden, however, was about $25,000 in credit card debt she had brought from her marriage. Because her husband did not have a regular salary, all the cards were in her name.
After she had been in the house for a year, a friend who was a mortgage broker suggested she consolidate her debts into a new home loan. The property had appreciated by about $30,000, and once again she put no money down for the loan. ''It was amazing how easy it was,'' she recalled. ''But that's a trap, and I didn't know it then.''
Naturally, the refinance had costs. There was an $8,000 penalty to pay off the previous mortgage early as well as roughly $1,500 in closing costs on the new loan.
To cover these fees, Ms. McLeod dipped into her retirement account. Only later did she realize that she had to pay an early-withdrawal penalty of $3,000 to the Internal Revenue Service. Short on cash, she put it on a credit card.
Soon she had racked up another $19,000 in credit card debt. But because her home had appreciated, she once again refinanced her mortgage. Although she was making $50,000 a year working two jobs, her income was not enough to support the new $165,000 loan. She asked her son to join her on the loan application; with his income, the numbers worked.
''Boy, would I regret that,'' she said. The decision would drive a wedge between mother and son and damage his credit profile as well.
Almost immediately after she refinanced, in late 2005, the department store where she worked her second job, as a jewelry saleswoman at night and on weekends, cut back her hours. She quit altogether, and her son moved out of the house, where he had been helping with the rent, to live with a girlfriend. Ms. McLeod was on her own and paying $1,500 a month on her mortgage.
Because the house had been recently appraised at $228,000, she said, she felt sure she could refinance again if she needed to pay off her credit card. ''You felt like you had a way out,'' she said.
But as happens with many debt-laden Americans, an unexpected illness helped push Ms. McLeod over the edge. In January 2006, her doctor told her she needed a hysterectomy. She had health care coverage, but she could no longer work at a second job.
She made matters worse during her recovery, while watching home shopping channels. ''Eight weeks in bed by yourself is very dangerous when you have a TV and credit card,'' Ms. McLeod said. ''QVC was my friend.''
Later that year, Ms. McLeod realized she was in trouble, squeezed by her mortgage and credit card payments, her $350 monthly car bill, rising energy prices and a stagnant salary. She started to sell knickknacks, handbags, clothing and other items on eBay to help cover her heating and food bills. She stopped paying her credit cards so that she could afford her mortgage.
A year ago she was back in the hospital, this time with a burst appendix. Her condition worsened, and she lost the use of one kidney. She spent 19 days in the hospital and six weeks recuperating. Her prescription-drug costs added to her expenses, and by September she could no longer pay her mortgage.
When her father died in early January, she was devastated. About a month later, on Feb. 14, Ms. McLeod was suspended and soon afterward fired from Verizon.
Toting up her financial obligations, Ms. McLeod said she owed $237,000 on her home mortgage. Of that, sheriff's costs are $4,350, and ''other'' fees related to the foreclosure come to $3,000. A house of similar size down the street from Ms. McLeod sold for $153,000 in January.
Her credit card debt totals around $34,000, she said. Each month the late fees and over-limit penalties add to her debt. Ms. McLeod said she would probably file for bankruptcy.
Patricia A. Hasson, president of the Credit Counseling Service of Delaware Valley, said Ms. McLeod would probably wind up having to repay 40 percent to 60 percent of her credit card debt. The owner of her mortgages could come after her for the difference between what she owes on her loan and what her house ultimately sells for. The first mortgage was sold to investors; Citigroup declined to say whether it held onto the second mortgage or sold it to investors.
A sheriff's auction of her home on June 12 received no bidders, Ms. McLeod said. The bank will soon evict her.
''Oh, I definitely have regrets,'' Ms. McLeod said. ''I regret not dealing with my emotions instead of just shopping. And I regret involving my son in all this because that has affected him and his finances and his self-esteem.''
Ms. McLeod says she hopes to be living in an apartment she can afford soon and to get back to paying her bills on time.
She does not want another credit card, she said. But even though her credit profile is ruined, she still receives come-ons.
Recently an envelope arrived offering a ''pre-qualified'' Salute Visa Gold card issued by Urban Bank Trust. ''We think you deserve more credit!'' it said in bold type.
A spokeswoman at Urban Bank said the Salute Visa is part of a program ''designed to provide access to credit for folks who would not otherwise qualify for credit.''
The Salute Visa offered Ms. McLeod a $300 credit line. But a closer look at the fine print showed that $150 of that would go, as annual fees, to Urban Bank.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Diane McLeod's woes were made worse by companies charging interest totaling over 40 percent of her pretax income. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Diane McLeod, facing foreclosure, admits she is responsible for many of her money problems. But she says big banks share some of the blame. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A14) CHART: AVERAGE HOUSEHOLD SAVINGS EACH YEAR (Source: Federal Reserve) (pg.A1)
AN AMERICAN OPPORTUNITY, AN AMERICAN BURDEN: Americans have long been willing to get ahead by taking on debts. But much has changed since modern consumer loans took form in the 1920s. In 2008, more people of all races, classes and ages have access to credit. Their debts are growing rapidly: Americans carry $2.56 trillion in consumer debt, up 22 percent since 2000, when figures are adjusted for inflation. And household debt is now 130 percent of disposable income, up from 30 percent in 1929. Lenders, too, have shifted. Diligent borrowers are no longer the best customers. Lenders now seek and profit from customers least able to pay their debts. To help reduce the risk, lenders sell debts to investors in the form of securities. (CHART BY AMY SCHOENFELD)
(Sources: The Federal Reserve
Bureau of Economic Analysis
Historical Statistics of the United States
Bureau of Labor Statistics
CardTrak.com
Lendol Calder, Augustana College
 Martha Olney, University of California, Berkeley) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (90%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (90%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (77%); FORECLOSURE (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); DISMISSALS (71%); TICKET SALES (70%); RETAILERS (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (82%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); GNE (PAR) (82%); GEC (LSE) (82%); GE (SWX) (82%); GE (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2010



512 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1581 words

HEADLINE: Pfffffffffft! There Goes the Vacation

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

 BODY:
WHEN T. S. Eliot said that it is the journey, not the arrival, that matters, he surely was not thinking of a journey to Paris on a commercial airline, at a cost of $1,400, following a two-hour wait on the tarmac, in which cocktails on overseas flights are no longer free. 
 Nor, presumably, was he referring to a 12-hour automobile trek to see friends a state or two away, seeing the money evaporate as the gas gauge dwindles. And he certainly would not have thought of a ''journey'' as a simple weekend jaunt across town, or merely across the living room, in the form of a pseudo-respite known as a ''staycation'' (formerly known as ''staying home''). 
 To most Americans, a summer getaway is a crucial component of the life-work compact: they trade 50 weeks of cubicle-bound servitude for two weeks of sun-dappled bliss, and it seems worth it (well, almost). 
 But halfway through the 2008 season, vacationers (and would-be vacationers) are being squeezed by a confluence of dismal economic realities: fuel prices that have nearly doubled since the start of last year; airlines that have jacked up fares 17 percent since the start of the year; a dollar that stands like a pygmy alongside foreign currencies.
 Travelers flush or fortunate enough to get away, whether to the Amalfi Coast or to a friend's pool in New Jersey, must labor to keep this season's economic anxieties -- plummeting home prices, tanking 401(k)'s, looming layoffs -- off their minds.
 This summer, the vacation has become a no-win situation: unattainable for those who can't afford it, dispiriting and unsatisfying for many who can. 
 ''It's a tremendous disappointment that you're sort of stuck here,'' said Hollister H. Hovey, a public relations executive who lives in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn. She decided to postpone a trip to Scandinavia this summer because of exorbitant air fares and lethal exchange rates. 
 ''It's too expensive to drive, too expensive to go overseas, because you can't afford to fly,'' she said, ''and once you're there, you can't shop.'' 
 ''I know that travel is a luxury,'' Ms. Hovey added. ''But it really plays on the heart and minds of people, because people need that escape.''
 About 4 in 10 Americans said they intend to change travel plans because of escalating costs and rising worries about household finances, according to a recent national survey on summer travel conducted by Y Partnership, a travel services marketing company, in conjunction with the Travel Industry Association. But generally, people ''are trading down, not out,'' of the travel market, Peter C. Yesawich, the company's chairman said.
 THE most commonly cited change was driving shorter distances to vacation destinations. (About 77 percent of American travelers use their vehicles to take a vacation each year, he said.) For the first time in five years, Mr. Yesawich said, many people in an April survey said they planned to spend less on lodging, food and entertainment this summer. And among those respondents planning changes, 36 percent said they intended to postpone or cancel trips.
 Elizabeth and Dennis Jones, of Alexandria, Va., are among those acclimating to downsized travel. Instead of spending more than $2,000 to fly their family of four to Wisconsin for the 50th wedding anniversary of Mr. Jones's parents, they decided to drive. Round trip, the trek will cover about 2,000 miles. Their son, Eddie, is 3 1/2 and their daughter, Josie, is 15 months old. 
 ''We don't even have a minivan,'' Ms. Jones said. ''We're definitely worried.'' 
 Among those who have decided to forgo vacations entirely are Winona Dimeo-Ediger, 23, a blogger in Portland, Ore., and her boyfriend, Nick Castro, 22, a barista at Starbucks. Only a few months ago, they were planning for 2008 to be an ''epic'' summer of travel. They were going to set out on a Kerouac-esque journey to traverse the country: flying to Boston, then to Chicago, and also taking a road trip to Montana, to revel in ''the wide open spaces'' of the West.
 Then reality intruded. The couple checked prices for airline tickets to Boston, and found they started at $500, Ms. Dimeo-Ediger recalled. They waited a week, hoping fares would settle back toward earth. Instead, they skyrocketed. So much for Boston. On to Chicago. 
 ''Then the Chicago tickets jumped a couple of hundred dollars,'' she said. ''Forget Chicago.'' 
 Still, they clung to their Montana road trip. They began to invite ''more and more people, to split the cost,'' she said. ''But then, to make it affordable, it would have been like one of those clown cars -- 50 people in a Honda. It wouldn't have worked.'' They ended up just splitting the cost of a dinner date at a pasta place near their home.
 Skimping on vacations comes with physical and mental costs, psychologists say. In a nation where 35 percent of employed workers already leave some vacation days on the table, according to one study, this can lead to what the author and work-life coach Joe Robinson calls ''vacation deficit disorder.'' 
 Men who shrugged off vacations for five straight years were 30 percent more likely to suffer a heart attack than those who took an extended break from work every year, according to a multiyear study by Brooks B. Gump, an associate professor of psychology at State University of New York, Oswego, and a colleague, Karen A. Matthews. Vacations may boost what psychologists call the brain's ''reserve capacity,'' which helps it ''cope with stressors that come up,'' Dr. Gump said. Vacation, he added, ''is a buffer.'' 
 Most people seem to understand this, and some try to get by on less, restricting their vacation horizons to their own backyards. Internal data compiled by Expedia.com, the travel reservations Web site, indicates that in many cities, more people this year are confining their summer travel to their home turf than last year. The percentage of those booking hotel rooms in their own metropolitan areas has risen in 15 of Expedia's top 25 markets, often substantially: by 38 percent in the Houston area; 35 percent in the Las Vegas region; 32 percent in the Detroit area.
 Vacationers looking to economize by renting private homes instead of hotels seem to be looking closer to home, said Eileen Buesing, a spokeswoman for HomeAway.com, a company that lists rental homes in more than 100 countries. Compared with last year, growth in inquiries for rental properties in Mexico and Europe between April and June was modest, but interest in many so-called ''drive destinations'' spiked dramatically -- 114 percent in Ocean City, Md., not far from Washington and Baltimore; 44 percent in the Hamptons.
 Even travelers who can afford lavish vacations are cutting back because of economic anxiety. 
 So far this year, business has been good for the Turners of Brentwood, Calif., where Brinley Turner, 36, runs a social-networking start-up and Jason Turner, 40, is the chief executive for a re-insurance company.
 But instead of rewarding themselves by spending more than $10,000 on a European vacation, as they typically do, the couple pulled out of a pricey trip to Milan and Crete at the last minute, months after they had booked. It seemed like the responsible thing to do, given the dire headlines in the business pages, Ms. Turner said. ''Good planning,'' she said, is ''going to make or break how people survive this recession.''
 In general, it is too early to tell whether economic anxieties will mean lost revenues for the travel industry, analysts said, since figures for summer hotel occupancy and airline traffic are still being compiled. 
 But preliminary data for June indicates that hotel occupancy nationwide was down 4 to 6 percent compared with the same month last year, according to Smith Travel Research, of Hendersonville, Tenn., which tracks the industry. 
 In May, the Air Transport Association of America forecast a drop of 1 percent in the number of passengers flying from June through August, compared with the same period in 2007. But among those who remain committed to air travel, some must find creative and painful ways to pare down. 
 Nesli Danisman, who works in product development for a fashion company and lives in Brooklyn, was forced to change her plans for her annual visit to her mother in Turkey when she found out the combined air fares for her and her daughter, Baladine Bourgeois, would cost $2,900. Instead, Ms. Danisman said, ''I sent my daughter there alone, both ways, at the tender age of 8.''
 ''She was really brave,'' said Ms. Danisman, who said that she was careful to ''put her on a night flight, so she could sleep.'' 
 Sacrifices like this may seem a small concession in a summer of pink slips and bank failures. But when a vacation disappears, so does an essential family experience, said Susan Sessions Rugh, a history professor at Brigham Young University and the author of ''Are We There Yet? The Golden Age of American Family Vacations'' (University Press of Kansas, 2008). 
 The summer vacation has never just been about fun, Ms. Rugh said. Herding the kids off to see Mount Rushmore or the Eiffel Tower was always a means of re-establishing family bonds, expanding children's horizons and, of course, showing off to the neighbors with barely endurable slide shows and home videos.
 In contrast, Ms. Rugh said: ''I don't think anyone's going to remember a 'staycation.' Is anyone going to take pictures? 'Here's the kids playing Wii!' I'd say, cut your budget somewhere else.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 3, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on July 20 about the economy's effects on Americans' vacations misattributed the saying that it is the journey, not the arrival, that matters. Although it has been attributed through the years to T. S. Eliot -- as the article did -- Leonard Woolf, the author and the husband of Virginia Woolf, in his autobiography, ''Downhill All the Way,'' cites Montaigne, the 16th-century essayist, as having written, ''It is not the arrival, but the journey which matters.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARS KLOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST1)
 THEY'LL ALWAYS HAVE PASTA: Winona Dimeo-Ediger and Nick Castro planned to travel the country this summer but found they couldn't afford it.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN KLICKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AIR FARES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); CURRENCIES (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (69%); US 401K PLANS (68%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); HOME PRICES (66%); EXCHANGE RATES (65%); LAYOFFS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008



513 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: An American Opportunity, an American Burden

BYLINE: By AMY SCHOENFELD

 BODY:
Americans have long been willing to get ahead by taking on debts. But much has changed since modern consumer loans took form in the 1920s. In 2008, more people of all races, classes and ages have access to credit. Their debts are growing rapidly: Americans carry $2.56 trillion in consumer debt, up 22 percent since 2000, when figures are adjusted for inflation. And household debt is now 130 percent of disposable income, up from 30 percent in 1929. Lenders, too, have shifted. Diligent borrowers are no longer the best customers. Lenders now seek and profit from customers least able to pay their debts. To help reduce the risk, lenders sell debts to investors in the form of securities. AMY SCHOENFELD 

GRAPHIC: Chart: Average household savings annually and average household debts in total from 1920 through the first quarter of 2008 (Sources: The Federal Reserve
Bureau of Economic Analysis
Historical Statistics of the United States
Bureau of Labor Statistics
CardTrak.com
Lendol Calder, Augustana College
 Martha Olney, University of California, Berkeley) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (84%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2010



514 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: Calling All Oligarchs

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
DESPITE the uncertain economy, there may be hope for up-and-coming brokers in Manhattan, especially if they speak Russian.
 Russian-born billionaires and oligarchs have picked up apartments at the Time Warner Center and the Plaza Hotel, and even a Fifth Avenue mansion, and have been squired by brokers through the marble hallways of 15 Central Park West. 
 Just last week, Donald J. Trump closed on the $95 million sale of a Palm Beach, Fla., mansion with 475 feet of ocean frontage to Dmitry Rybolovlev, who made a fortune in fertilizer and is ranked 59th on the 2008 Forbes list of billionaires.
 So when Mr. Trump decided to start another marketing campaign for his unsold 10-room condominium duplex atop the tower of his Trump Park Avenue, near East 60th Street, he walked right on past the stable of celebrity brokers who normally get the big listings and chose a Russian-speaking broker, with a record of sales to Russian nationals.
 Victoria Shtainer of Prudential Douglas Elliman has listed the apartment for $45 million -- after substantial remodeling that added space. (The place is available for rent at $200,000 a month.)
 Ms. Shtainer recently returned from her first visit to Russia since she was 5. She made the trip, she said, to familiarize herself with the new Russia and the bubbling Moscow real estate scene. ''I work with a lot of international buyers,'' she said. ''I just did a big deal, for over $20 million. The last three deals were all cash, Russian. Trump is looking for a different type of buyer.''
 As Mr. Trump put it, ''Russians love Palm Beach and they love New York.''
 Trump Park Avenue was long known as the Delmonico Hotel. Mr. Trump bought it in 2001 for $115 million and gutted the interior to create 141 apartments out of 500 hotel rooms. Over the years he has sold most of the building for about $600 million and rents out the other apartments. Rupert Murdoch, the media magnate, and Alex Rodriguez, the Yankee third baseman, have homes there.
 The duplex penthouse has remained vacant all this time. In the latest configuration of the apartment, Mr. Trump added coffered ceilings with elaborate plaster moldings and installed three large crystal chandeliers in the living room. The apartment now has 6,200 square feet inside, with four bedrooms, and 1,600 square feet outdoors. Unlike most duplex penthouses, it has its common spaces, including a 45-foot-wide living room with double-height ceilings, upstairs on the 32nd floor; the master bedroom and the formal entrance are below. 
 But not all would-be customers are Russian. A few weeks ago, Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes were atop Trump Park Avenue looking at the penthouse as a possible rental while Ms. Holmes appears on Broadway in the fall.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); CELEBRITIES (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (54%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (55%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (79%); TOM CRUISE (52%); KATIE HOLMES (52%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); ALEX RODRIGUEZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008



515 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: The Link Between Animal and Human Suffering

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''What's Next in the Law? The Unalienable Rights of Chimps,'' by Adam Cohen (Editorial Observer, July 14), unfairly characterized PETA's efforts. 
 Few people know the depth of our work, as it is mostly our stunts that make the news. While cruelty to animals is a serious matter that should elicit widespread public outrage, efforts to reach the public through more serious means often fall on deaf ears in a world in which sex sells and there are both a war and an economic downturn. 
 By comparing the common mind-set that has produced both the past injustices against humans and the current abuses of animals, we can and do inspire debate and convince many people that it is a human obligation to speak out against injustice to all beings. 
 Animal suffering and human suffering are undeniably interconnected. In 2004, for example, The New York Times broke the story about a PETA undercover investigation that found routine animal abuse at AgriProcessors kosher slaughterhouse. Since then, the paper has repeatedly reported on the abuse of migrant workers at AgriProcessors. It should come as no surprise that a facility that profits from tormenting and killing animals would also oppress and abuse humans.
 Those of us who have worked in the field as social service staff members or humane law enforcement officers know that child abuse and animal abuse as well as battered women and battered companion animals are often found under the same roof. 
 Forgive us our bikinis and our shock tactics, but our message that all beings -- both human and nonhuman -- deserve compassion and respect is one that we must work hard to make heard.
 Ingrid E. Newkirk
 President, People for the Ethical
 Treatment of Animals
 Norfolk, Va., July 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (91%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (90%); LIVESTOCK ABUSE & NEGLECT (90%); ANIMALS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ANIMAL WELFARE (90%); ETHICS (78%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (76%); PETS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); CHILD ABUSE (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); MIGRANT WORKERS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: PEOPLE FOR THE ETHICAL TREATMENT OF ANIMALS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2008



516 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: On Reality Shows, Love's Retreads Need Dates, Too

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
There are many reasons you wouldn't want your son bringing home someone like Jo De La Rosa, and they aren't confined to her appearance on two reality shows, the most recent of which, ''Date My Ex: Jo & Slade,'' sends you straight to a milk bath to dissolve all the grimy reside. 
 An entitled whiner first seen on ''The Real Housewives of Orange County,'' Jo wasn't technically a housewife: she ultimately broke things off with her live-in fiance, Slade Smiley, and while her notion of housework was broad enough to accommodate wearing a French maid's costume it never expanded into actually dusting the mantles. 
 Jo, who is in her 20s, was a Madame Bovary with a spray tan: she felt stifled in Orange County, with its gates and clubs and 40-something social politics. So she took her dreams of freedom to Los Angeles and recorded her own feminist anthem: ''U Can't Control Me,'' the message of which has now been undermined by ''Date My Ex: Jo and Slade, '' a show that puts her ex-fiance in charge of finding his replacement. (It starts Monday on Bravo.) 
 Slade serves both as assessor and housemaster of the group of men competing for Jo's affections. The monochrome home with its long narrow swimming pool is like 14,000 others in Los Angeles, and in poetic confluence, the men are just as indistinguishable from one another. In line with the vague professional identities supplied for reality-show contestants, they have titles like business development manager. One, though, David, manages something more tangible: talent. Slade suspects him of getting in the game not in the pure name of reality-television love but more dubiously for the chance to handle Jo's career. 
 What passes for dramatic tension is the budding rivalry between David and someone named Tyler: David thinks Tyler is ''a moron.'' On a date Tyler takes Jo shooting and then sets up a tea party in the wild, a sequence Jo finds odd. Apparently she has never heard of colonialism. 
 You can't watch ''Date My Ex'' without thinking the ''moron'' tag may have been pinned on the wrong donkey. When the sprinklers are accidentally set off during a golf date with Lucas, Jo commits felonies against both perspective and grammar. ''What possibly could have been the worst experience ever,'' she says, ''Lucas turned into the most 
 funnest thing in the world.'' Her deficiencies are trumped only by Slade's narcissism: he likes Lucas best because, as he explains, Lucas reminds him of himself.
 There is no good reason in the world to watch ''Date My Ex,'' and yet there is something vaguely redeeming in its economic chemistry. Since the first season of ''The Bachelor'' reality dating shows have typically put striving women in the position of angling for the attention of heirs and doctors and graduates of the better business schools. These Ambers and Tiffanys and Tristas might get the keys to the hotel room or, if they're really lucky, receive their own chance to weed out partners on television, but they weren't going to be taken to the Stanford reunion, even as the shows persisted in the fairly tale that it could be otherwise. 
 ''The Real Housewives of Orange County'' implicitly understood the limits of social mobility, recognizing the difference between status and money. Slade is a lot wealthier than Jo, but they were equals in their lack of pedigree and everything they didn't know. Like the other couples on the show, they looked as if they might have a fighting chance, if only because they seemed to hail from the village.
 ''Date My Ex'' levels the playing field even further. Jo isn't even gold-digging anymore, or so it seems. She's drawing from a pool of average men, none of whom appear to have the resources to put her up in a house that could be mistaken for the Four Seasons. 
 Perhaps it is a sign of our weakened economy, but wealth getting isn't the goal of another new reality dating series: ''Must Love Kids,'' appearing Tuesdays on TLC. In this unobjectionable show three amiable middle-class single mothers seek kind, decent men who will take them out and be nice to their children. One woman lived with a man who did so little around the house she had a nervous breakdown. None has had much opportunity or inclination to date. The suitors work in health care or government or the military, and they don't seem to care about Porsches or kiteboarding or women recovering from Botox addictions. Let them all prosper and love.
 DATE MY EX: JO & SLADE
 Bravo, Monday nights at 10, Eastern and Pacific times; 9, Central time.
 Douglas Ross, Coco Ridgway, Gregory Stewart and Kathleen French, executive producers; Larry Grimaldi, supervising producer; Dave Patry, line producer; Andre Martinez and Matthew W. Davis, directors of photography; Adam Karpel, story producers; Scott E. Slifer, Sarah Levine and Dena Waxman, story editors. Produced by Evolution Film & Tape Inc.
 WITH: Joe De La Rosa, Slade Smiley, Myia Ingoldsby and Katy Metz.
 MUST LOVE KIDS
 TLC, Tuesday nights at 9, Eastern and Pacific times; 8, Central time.
 Jean-Michel Michenaud and Chris Cowan, executive producers; Megan Estrada and Danielle King, supervising producers; Justin Dudek, line producer; Jason Dufner, production manager; Herbert Weatherford and Swaga Deb, field producers. Produced by Rocket Science Laboratories.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Slade Smiley and Jo De La Rosa of ''Date My Ex.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILLY TOMPKINS/BRAVO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (90%); FELONIES (70%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

TITLE: Date My Ex (TV Program)>; Must Love Kids (TV Program)>; Date My Ex (TV Program)>; Must Love Kids (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2008



517 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: A Child With a Problem, A Family With an Excuse

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:
THE CONDITION 
 By Jennifer Haigh 
 390 pp. Harper. $25.95. 
 In the prologue to Jennifer Haigh's third novel, a discreetly messed-up family gathers at its ancestral Cape Cod beach house to engage in the usual one-upmanship of summer vacation. The year is 1976, and it will be the last ordinary year for the McKotches. It has suddenly become impossible not to notice that their 12-year-old daughter, Gwen, is unusually small. Gwen turns out to have Turner syndrome, a chromosomal abnormality that will keep her tiny her whole life.
 And there you have it: the condition that gives ''The Condition'' its name. In a lesser novel Gwen's problem would be the main event. The whole book would revolve around her, with her parents' and siblings' lives overshadowed by this one heartbreaking problem. It would become the McKotches' tragic family secret and consign Ms. Haigh to the far too large crowd of tragic-family-secret writers. 
 But ''The Condition'' is something rare. As she demonstrated in ''Mrs. Kimble'' and particularly in ''Baker Towers,'' Ms. Haigh has a great gift for telling interwoven family stories and doing justice to all the different perspectives they present. She is subtle and intuitive about the whole McKotch household, which in 1976 is based in Concord, Mass. And when the family ruptures -- because, even in an uncommonly good version of the tragic-family-secret book, it inevitably will -- she does justice to each McKotch's way of absorbing that change.
 Except for Gwen's. ''The Condition'' gets much of its strong momentum from Ms. Haigh's way of withholding her for a while. Although there is ample reason to wonder what kind of adult she has become once the book leaps forward to 1997, ''The Condition'' must first attend to Gwen's parents and her two brothers. 
 In each instance a graceful aspect of Ms. Haigh's storytelling is the way she glides through chronology. When it's necessary, she can telescope time to explain how each of these people's characters was formed. Their later lives have been allowed to revolve around a single easy thought: that Gwen's condition was what broke up the family. 
 Surely it troubled the father, Frank McKotch. (He comes from the same Pennsylvania mining town where ''Baker Towers'' was set. But he married into the Drew family, one of whose whaling ancestors provided the Cape Cod summer place, a k a the Captain's House.) Frank is a scientist who specializes in oncodevelopmental biology and longs for the one big discovery that will cement his place among scientists. His ability to guess what was wrong with Gwen and to discuss her being nulliparous -- that is, a woman who has never borne children -- is not the breakthrough he had in mind.
 Frank's lively libido is an annoyance to his fearful wife in the book's prologue. Later on it is troublesome for him too. By 1997 he is nearing 60, newly ditched by a girlfriend and alone on Christmas Eve. His only plan for that night is to deliver Gwen to the Concord house. Frank is not welcome there. The sight of his car in Concord is enough to make another car abruptly turn away.
 The second car belongs to Billy, the older of the two McKotch brothers. Billy (who thus arrives a little late) is a successful New York cardiologist with a dense, dense family that often asks him when he'll meet the right girl. But Billy too has what he thinks of as a condition: a life spent halfway in the closet. Happy as he is with his male partner in New York, he chooses not to burden his relatives with facts they couldn't handle. 
 ''Family life, that grimy jumble,'' Billy thinks to himself on a visit home: ''tiring and chaotic on a good day; on a bad one, a nerve-shearing slice of hell.'' 
 Scott, the younger brother, is supposed to be the family's lost soul. But he is by far the most lovable character in a book full of credible, captivating ones. Scott was a hapless stoner in his youth, the kind of kid whose college essay on an important historical figure was titled ''My Dinner With Hunter S. Thompson.'' (Scott had to be told that Thompson did not qualify as a historical figure since he wasn't, technically speaking, dead.) Of his years at a college called Stirling, Ms. Haigh writes with that time-traveling ease, ''Even as an old man he would sometimes return to Stirling during a late-afternoon nap, again a delinquent sophomore, a drunken Kap Sig with an econ paper due.'' 
 At 30 Scott is suffering through an identity crisis. The attitudes of his starchy, brittle mother have not entirely left him. (After the divorce she began collecting antique pottery. She keeps her house at 55 degrees year-round for the pottery's sake.) Yet his marriage to a woman he met in his feckless years has planted him in a very different world. Scott's wife, Penny, listens in disbelief when he tries to tell her that the McKotches spent an hour together each night at the dinner table. Penny herself favors reality TV at dinnertime. 
 Ms. Haigh sometimes uses italicized passages as a means of illumination. So she puts these words into the mouth of Penny's father, a movie stuntman who left her behind: ''I'm leaving you forever. I will call you once, next year on Christmas, and give your mother a phone number that will soon be disconnected. I will race cars and live with a dancer in Nevada.'' After that he says, he will drive into a wall at 120 miles per hour, and that dancer will send along a box of worthless junk ''that will tell you nothing about why I left, nothing at all.''
 Although there is much, much more to ''The Condition,'' this book's pivotal moments involve the McKotch reaction to an unexpected change that befalls the adult Gwen. At this point of apparent crisis, each character is newly revealed in some way. In light of how perfectly Ms. Haigh has already drawn them, this is a remarkable accomplishment. Only at the very end of ''The Condition,'' when Ms. Haigh imagines resolving everyone's problems while also bringing 9/11 gratuitously into the mix, does her book sound any false notes at all.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO(E1)
 Jennifer Haigh (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASIA KEPKA)(E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (78%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

TITLE: Condition, The (Book)>; Condition, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2008



518 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1587 words

HEADLINE: With No Frills or Tuition, A College Draws Attention

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

DATELINE: BEREA, Ky. 

 BODY:
Berea College, founded 150 years ago to educate freed slaves and ''poor white mountaineers,'' accepts only applicants from low-income families, and it charges no tuition. 
 ''You can literally come to Berea with nothing but what you can carry, and graduate debt free,'' said Joseph P. Bagnoli Jr., the associate provost for enrollment management. ''We call it the best education money can't buy.'' 
 Actually, what buys that education is Berea's $1.1 billion endowment, which puts the college among the nation's wealthiest. But unlike most well-endowed colleges, Berea has no football team, coed dorms, hot tubs or climbing walls. Instead, it has a no-frills budget, with food from the college farm, handmade furniture from the college crafts workshops, and 10-hour-a-week campus jobs for every student. 
 Berea's approach provides an unusual perspective on the growing debate over whether the wealthiest universities are doing enough for the public good to warrant their tax exemption, or simply hoarding money to serve an elite few. As many elite universities scramble to recruit more low-income students, Berea's no-tuition model has attracted increasing attention. 
 ''Asking whether that's where our values lead us is a powerful way to consider what our values are,'' said Anthony Marx, the president of Amherst College, who considered the possibility of using Amherst's $1 million-per-student endowment to offer free tuition but concluded that it would make no sense, given Amherst's more affluent student body and the fact that the college already subsidizes about half the cost of each student's education.
 ''We're not Berea, much as we respect them,'' Mr. Marx said, adding there would be no social justification for giving free tuition to students from wealthy families.
 Although this year's market drop is taking its toll, the growth in university endowments in recent years has been spectacular. Harvard's $35 billion endowment, Yale's $23 billion, Stanford's $17 billion and Princeton's $16 billion put them among the world's richest institutions. 
 Such endowments have helped make higher education one of the nation's crown jewels. As Harvard's president, Drew Gilpin Faust, said in her spring commencement speech this year, endowments at Harvard and other research universities help fuel scientific advances as government support is eroding, and help drive economic growth and expansion in a difficult economy. 
 Although most universities have only modest endowments, the wealth of the richest has made them increasingly vulnerable to criticism from parents upset about rising tuition costs, lawmakers pushing them to spend more of their money and policy experts arguing that they should be helping more needy students. 
 ''How much do you need to save for future generations, and at what point are you gouging today's generation?'' said Lynne Munson, of the Center for College Affordability and Productivity in Washington.
 In January, the Senate Finance Committee requested detailed endowment and spending data from 136 colleges and universities with endowments of at least $500 million, with a possible eye to forcing them to spend at least 5 percent of their assets each year, as foundations are required to do. Large, tax-free endowments ''should mean affordable education for more students, not just a security blanket for colleges,'' said Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, who is reviewing the data. 
 The commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service's tax-exempt section said this spring that he wanted his agency to be more aggressive in ensuring that universities made ''appropriate use'' of their endowments. And officials in Massachusetts are studying a proposal for a 2.5 percent tax on the part of university endowments greater than $1 billion -- a threshold exceeded by nine of the state's universities. 
 ''The endowments have grown to such an astonishing extent that people are asking, if the wealth and the value of the tax exemption are increasing, is the public benefit increasing, as well?'' said Evelyn Brody, a tax professor at Chicago-Kent College of Law. 
 This year, Ms. Brody said, the debate has entered new territory. Traditionally, discussion about endowments has focused on the balance between using the money for the current generation versus saving it for the benefit of future generations. 
 ''Endowment spending has usually been a 'when' question, about when the money would be used for a charitable purpose,'' she said. ''But now, it's also being viewed as a 'what' question. What is the money for? And I think that's new.'' 
 In part, it is simply a question of itchy fingers. When one sector amasses great wealth, other sectors find it irresistible. 
 ''That's why Henry VIII dissolved the monasteries in the 16th century,'' Ms. Brody said. ''In those days, it was real estate, which was not easy to hide. Now it's the disclosure, which makes the universities' wealth impossible to hide.''
 The mounting scrutiny by lawmakers has already prompted some action. Dozens of wealthy colleges have increased their aid to low- and middle-income students, many substituting grants for loans. Many have announced plans to expand their student bodies, and some are doing broader outreach and working with nearby K-12 schools to improve academic preparation. 
 Nonetheless, according to 2002 data, only one in 10 of the students at the nation's most selective institutions come from the bottom 40 percent of the income scale. And the proportion of low-income undergraduates at the nation's wealthiest colleges has been declining, as measured by the percentage receiving federal Pell Grants, for families with income under about $40,000. At most top colleges, only 8 to 15 percent of students receive Pell grants. 
 At Berea, more than three-quarters of the students receive Pell grants. 
 Overall, Berea's statistics speak worlds about the demand for affordable higher education; this year, the college accepted only 22 percent of its applicants. Among those accepted, 85 percent attended Berea, a yield higher than Harvard's. 
 Berea can be a haven for the lower-income students at high schools where expensive clothes and fancy homes demarcate the social territory. 
 ''When I first heard about Berea, I didn't think I wanted to come here,'' said Candice Roots, who will be a junior in the fall. ''But I visited in my senior year, and as soon as I got here, I knew this was what I wanted. Everybody was like me. You don't have to have all this money to fit in.'' 
 With its hilly campus, Georgian president's mansion and old brick buildings, Berea looks much like any elite New England college. But its operating budget is less than half that of Amherst, which has a $1.7 billion endowment and about 100 more students. Faculty pay is much lower, and the student-faculty ratio higher. With no rich parents and no legacy admission slots, fund-raising is far more difficult at Berea.
 Lacking tuition, Berea receives 80 percent of its $43 million education and general budget, and about two-thirds of its $55 million operating budget, from the endowment income. 
 Families bringing a student to a campus interview may stay, free, in a four-bedroom house, complete with flat-screen television and handmade sleigh bed. Students who are single parents have their own residences. 
 To satisfy the work requirement, some students have jobs in the academic departments, administrative offices and labs, while others are assigned to the college farm, the workshops that make and sell traditional mountain crafts (its handmade brooms, especially, are well-known treasures) or the college-owned hotel, which anchors the town square. 
 Mr. Marx, in homage, keeps a Berea broom in his Amherst office. 
 While Mr. Marx is not trying to match Berea's student population, he is proud of Amherst's efforts to attract top students from all income brackets. The college has increased the proportion of Pell recipients to nearly 20 percent of its student body, from about 15 percent five years ago, for example. With more than half of Amherst's students on financial aid, the college announced last year that it would replace loans in all aid packages with grants. A full-time staff member recruits community college graduates as transfer students. Admissions are need-blind, for both American and international applicants. 
 Although he, like other college presidents, opposes the idea of a required 5 percent payout, Mr. Marx said the current debate over the use of endowments was healthy. 
 ''Congress, the media, the public all have an interest in knowing whether we're using our resources to make sure the best students have access to the best education,'' he said. ''They should be asking, are we really affordable? Are we offering the highest quality education? Are we directing graduates to think about their social responsibilities?'' 
 Berea's president, Larry D. Shinn, also opposes a required 5 percent payout but wants colleges pushed to do more for needy students. 
 ''You see some of these selective liberal arts colleges building new physical education facilities with these huge sheets of glass and these coffee and juice bars, and charging students $40,000 a year, and you have to ask, does this contribute to the public good, or is it just a way for the college to keep up with the Joneses?'' Mr. Shinn said. ''We are a tax-exempt institution, so I think the public has a right to demand that our educational mission be at the heart of all of our expenditures.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At Berea College, in Kentucky, the Ecovillage houses one-parent families. Josh Noah, 21, a senior Appalachian studies major from Mount Airy, N.C., fertilizing the Ecovillage's vegetable beds. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID R. LUTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A12)
 Brenda Hornsby, 22, of Lebanon, Ohio, throwing pots, is a history major at Berea who plans a career in museum ceramics. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID R. LUTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES(A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); FAMILY (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); CLIMBING (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); TAX LAW (67%)

PERSON: DREW GILPIN FAUST (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2008



519 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Smaller PCs Cause Worry For Industry

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
The personal computer industry is poised to sell tens of millions of small, energy-efficient Internet-centric devices. Curiously, some of the biggest companies in the business consider this bad news.
 In a tale of sales success breeding resentment, computer companies are wary of the new breed of computers because their low price could threaten PC makers' already thin profit margins.
 The new computers, often called netbooks, have scant onboard memory. They use energy-sipping computer chips. They are intended largely for surfing Web sites and checking e-mail. The price is small too, with some selling for as little as $300. 
 The companies that pioneered the category were small too, like Asus and Everex, both of Taiwan. 
 Despite their wariness of these slim machines, Dell and Acer, two of the biggest PC manufacturers, are not about to let the upstarts have this market to themselves. Hewlett-Packard, the world's biggest PC maker, recently sidled into the market with a hybrid of a notebook and netbook that it calls the Mini-Note. 
 Several makers are taking the low-powered PCs one step further. In the coming months, they are expected to introduce ''net-tops,'' low-cost versions of desktop computers intended for Internet access.
 A Silicon Valley start-up called CherryPal says it will challenge the idea that big onboard power is required to allow basic computing functions in the Internet age. On Monday it plans to introduce a $300 desktop PC that is the size of a paperback and uses two watts of power compared with the 100 watts of some desktops. 
 It wants to take advantage of the trend toward ''cloud computing,'' in which data is managed and stored in distant servers, not on the actual machine.
 Industry analysts say that the emergence of this new class of low-cost, cloud-centric machines could threaten titans like Microsoft and Intel, or even H.P. and Dell, because the giants have built their companies on the notion that consumers want more power and functions built into their next computer. 
 Some of the big computer companies put a positive spin on the low-cost machines, saying they welcome new categories. But they would just as soon this niche did not take off, given the relatively low profit margins. 
 ''When I talk to PC vendors, the No. 1 question I get is, how do I compete with these netbooks when what we really want to do is sell PCs that cost a lot more money?'' said J. P. Gownder, an analyst with Forrester Research.
 Even as some PC vendors are jumping into the fray, others say they are resisting. Fujitsu, one of the world's top 10 personal computer makers, said that it believes the low-cost netbook trend is a dangerous one for the bottom line.
 ''We're sitting on the sidelines not because we're lazy. We're sitting on the sidelines because even if this category takes off, and we get our piece of the pie, it doesn't add up,'' said Paul Moore, senior director of mobile product management for Fujitsu. ''It's a product that essentially has no margin.''
 Stan Glasgow, chief executive of Sony Electronics, said, ''We are not looking at competing with Asus.'' But he said the company is investigating what consumers want in a second PC.
 It is a market that caught the major computer companies -- both hardware and software -- by surprise after Asus, entered the market last year with the $300 Eee PC. The company thought the device would essentially appeal to the education market, or as a starter laptop for adolescents, but the interest has turned out to be broader.
 With an emphasis not in on-board applications (like word processing), but Internet-based ones like Google Docs, the Linux-based Eee PC sold out its 350,000 global inventory. It has been in short supply ever since, said Jackie Hsu, president of the American division of Asus. Everex has sold around 20,000 of its CloudBook, which sells for about $350.
 The sales are a veritable drop in the bucket compared with the 271 million desktop and laptop PCs shipped globally last year. But there is an intensifying debate about how big the category can become, and what segment of the market finds these computers appealing. 
 IDC, a market research firm, is predicting that the category could grow from fewer than 500,000 in 2007 to nine million in 2012 as the market for second computers expands in developed economies. 
 Intel is projecting that by 2011, the market for the netbooks will be 40 million units a year, which is why Intel is jumping in with low-powered chips that would be used in the netbooks and the net-tops.
 With its new Atom chip, Intel is competing against upstarts including Via, a Taiwanese company that has a chip called the C7. The C7 is showing up in netbooks and, indeed, is being used in the Everex models and in H.P.'s $500 Mini-Note.
 William Calder, an Intel spokesman, said that the cost of the Atom for PC makers is around $44, compared with $100 for a state-of-the-art chip. He said that Intel executives think the market for low-cost PCs is too big to pass up, though it does raise a potential threat to more powerful and more profitable computing lines.
 Microsoft has been a reluctant participant too. Even though it is no longer selling its Windows XP operating system software, it made an exception for makers of these low-cost laptops and desktops. Microsoft said it was responding to a groundswell of consumer interest in the low-cost machines, but some makers of those machines say Microsoft did so reluctantly because it did not want to lose market share to Linux.
 Tim Bajarin, an industry analyst with Creative Strategies, a technology consulting firm, said that while the big computer companies have been caught off guard by the market's potential, they are finding little choice but to dive in. 
 ''H.P., Dell and these other PC makers have learned that if there's consumer interest, you can't just sit back and let someone else steal all the thunder,'' he said. 
 Hewlett-Packard thinks consumers want more than a mobile Internet terminal. ''Our competitors proved there is a pretty good market,'' Robert Baker, a notebook product manager at Hewlett-Packard conceded.
 Dell has not been specific about the price or features of its entry, but Michael Tatelman, vice president for marketing at Dell, said he believed that the category would have limited consumer appeal.
 They are useful for someone on the go at an airport or on a commuting trip on a bus, but not for a more intense computing experience, he said. ''It's a good 30- to 90-minute experience.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The HP 2133 Mini-Note PC (C1)
 The wave of small computers includes, from top, the CherryPal Net-Top, the Asus Eee PC and the Everex CloudBook.(C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (96%); COMPUTER MAKERS (92%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (89%); TRENDS (86%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); CLOUD COMPUTING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); MICROPROCESSORS (76%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (76%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); SALES & SELLING (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%)

COMPANY: FUJITSU LTD (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%); INTEL CORP (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (50%)

TICKER: FUJ (LSE) (58%); 6702 (TSE) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (56%); INTC (NASDAQ) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); FORR (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2008



520 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON PAR; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: The Long and Short of Which Shots Need Help

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

 BODY:
For all your golfing life, you have heard the same advice, usually delivered as gospel: the key to low golf scores is a good short game.
 How many times have you heard this platitude? The vast majority of shots in a round of golf are struck from 100 yards and in.
 In an office in Upper Manhattan, his fingers tethered to a computer containing data from more than 43,000 good, bad and indifferent golf shots individually recorded by amateur golfers, a Columbia University professor dares to dispute the accepted belief that the short game is king.
 The avid golfer Mark Broadie, who teaches graduate courses like computational finance and is a member of the United States Golf Association's handicap-research team, has spent the last four years painstakingly collecting, storing and analyzing shot data of amateurs and PGA Tour professionals in a computer program called Golfmetrics. 
 His findings?
 It is the long game that proves to be the biggest factor when examining the difference in scores between pros and amateurs and even between low- and high-handicap amateurs. If, for example, a PGA Tour player were available to hit shots for an amateur from 100 yards and in, or available to hit all the shots leading to the 100-yard mark, Broadie says the amateur would benefit the most from having the PGA player hit the long shots, not the short ones.
 Despite the belief that shorter hitters are more accurate off the tee than longer hitters, Broadie discovered the opposite: longer hitters also tend to be straighter hitters. ''Better players are more skilled over all,'' Broadie said. ''They hit it farther and they have more consistent swings, so they're more accurate, too.''
 It is often said that 60 to 65 percent of all shots are struck within 100 yards of the hole. Broadie agreed but noted that if you take out ''gimme'' putts of two and a half feet, the statistic has less meaning. Remove very short putts that are rarely missed, and shots from 100 yards or less account for only 45 to 50 percent of all shots. Eliminate putts from three and a half feet or less, and the figure drops to 41 to 47 percent.
 Broadie, who is a four handicap, knows the heresy his research suggests. He is not recommending that everyone abandon short-game clinics. He said, in fact, that his findings are not inconsistent with the accepted instruction doctrine that practicing the short game may be the easiest way to score lower.
 ''The data provide objective answers to where strokes are being lost, but the fact is if you've got two hours to practice, you probably won't start hitting the ball longer or straighter in that time period,'' Broadie said. ''But you could probably get better at your putting or chipping in two hours of practice.''
 Broadie's research is the result of hundreds of hours of work by several associates, a professional computer programmer and graduate students who assisted in technical aspects of the project. He wanted to assess the difference between a PGA Tour player's game and that of an amateur who shoots 75 or 85 or 100. The PGA Tour charts every shot by every player in every tournament, and Broadie obtained that research dating to 2003. He then had average golfers of all handicaps, from 11 years old to 70 years old, start charting all their shots at various New York metropolitan area golf courses, although most of this was done at his home course, the Pelham Country Club. Using Google Earth renderings of golf courses in the area and topographical booklets he made up, average golfers making notes during rounds on the golf course could record exactly where every shot went -- in the fairway, in the rough or out of bounds, and how far from the hole.
 Using the Golfmetrics program, Broadie and a few others entered the rounds in a computer, documenting every putt, bunker shot or other kind of shot -- and the result. It took a few years, but there were more than 43,000 shots recorded.
 Then Broadie worked backward from there. Because he had all the golfers' average scores, he could determine how far the average low-, middle- or high-handicap golfer hits a tee shot (see the accompanying graphic above). He could determine at what distance various golfers sink half their putts (8 feet for the PGA Tour pro, 6 feet for the player with a handicap from 0 to 9, 5 feet for those with a handicap of 10 to 19, 4 feet for someone with a handicap from 20 to 36).
 Perhaps most valuable, he could analyze the value of each shot of a golfer's score.
 The sample used for Broadie's research is limited geographically, and women make up less than 10 percent of the group studied, a figure Broadie says he wishes were higher. But over all, he defends the sample as representative.
 ''I'm confident there is nothing atypical about Pelham Country Club golfers and others in the area I sampled,'' he said.
 Maybe, although this being golf, there are no doubt many who will quarrel with Broadie's methods or results, which he presented to the World Scientific Congress of Golf in March 2008.
 (For the record, I'm not taking sides. My short game is killing me. It happens right after my long game gets me in trouble.)
 Broadie is not selling the Golfmetrics program, nor anything else for that matter, but he does say his research has the potential to help average golfers assess their weaknesses and strengths. He has, for example, proposed that golfers calculate what he calls the median Fractional Remaining Length (see the chart at left), a statistic Broadie says is revealing and predictive of a golfer's score.
 ''Average golfers could compute their median F.R.L. by recording a few additional numbers on their scorecard during a round and completing the calculation after the round,'' Broadie said.
 Comparing those results to the table would indicate whether more strokes are being lost to long-game or short-game performance.
 Another factor Broadie has measured is the impact of what he calls ''awful shots'' on a round. We all know what he means by awful shots -- a poorly struck 5-iron that sends the ball all of 20 yards, tee shots in ponds or skulled chip shots. But Broadie's data reveal that a golfer with an average score of 105 has nearly four times as many awful shots (8.1 a round) as someone shooting 80 (2.1). And Broadie said there were more awful shots linked to the long game than the short game with the attendant scoring inflation, so to speak.
 ''I think what this proves is that consistency improves a golf round more than people may think,'' Broadie said. ''People also might look at their awful shots per round and wonder if maybe they're taking too many risks.''
 Some of the fun of Broadie's research is in the odd, counterintuitive details. For instance, almost all golfers -- PGA pros to 25 handicappers -- have a first-putt distance on average of about 17 feet. The pro might be hitting his third shot while we are hitting our sixth, but we still average almost exactly 17 feet for that first putt. Broadie also said that a putting statistic golfers often keep (the number of putts per round) was not as valuable at predicting one's score as another stat, the percentage of greens hit in regulation, which will more likely tell you how well a golfer is scoring.
 What does it all mean?
 ''Well, it's great cocktail-party conversation,'' Broadie said with a laugh.
 But he has other aspirations.
 ''I did this because I wanted to better understand the game, and as an academic you find ways to do that,'' he said. ''And now, I certainly have a better understanding of golf and my golf game in particular. Maybe this will lead to something like that for manygolfers.''
 Broadie, a devoted golfer with his fingertips on a wealth of golf information, smiled.
 ''If other people learn a little more about the game from this,'' he said, ''I'd really be happy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mark Broadie, a professor at Columbia, performed a study that suggests that the long game matters more than most golfers think. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
GOOGLE EARTH IMAGE) CHARTS: DISTANCE BENCHMARKS: According to the Golfmetrics database, golfers in each skill category usually hit their tee shots to the shaded areas shown at right. To compare your tee shots to these benchmarks use a 75th-percentile tee-shot distance: record five tee-shot distances and select the second longest.
 WHERE TO FINE TUNE YOUR GAME: 1. Calculate the median fractional remaining length (F.R.L.) of shots from the fairway taken from 100 to 150 yards from the green. To get the F.R.L., take the distance of the shot's endpoint to the hole and divide it by the initial distance to the hole. Example: A shot starts 120 yards from the hole and finishes 6 yards from the hole. The F.R.L. is 6/120, which is 0.05 or 5%. To get the median F.R.L., list the F.R.L. percentages from smallest to largest and select the middle one. Example: If the F.R.L. of five shots are 4.2%, 6.5%, 8.2%, 12.3% and 15.9%, then the median F.R.L. is 8.2%. 3. Determine what needs the most work. Match your median F.R.L. to the closest group (low, mid or high). If your 18-hole scores are higher than the group's average score, work on your short game. If your 18-hole scores are lower than the group's average, your long game needs more work. 2. Compare the median F.R.L. to those from the Golfmetrics database. Median F.R.L. Results P.G.A. Professional 5.6% Low-handicap amateur 8.7% avg. score: 79 Mid-handicap amateur 12.0% avg. score: 90 High-handicap amateur 17.3% avg. score: 104 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (94%); AMATEUR SPORTS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GOLF ASSOCIATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2008



521 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Two Million Acres of Wilderness

 BODY:
Congress has an opportunity to add significantly to the nation's store of protected wilderness -- a million new acres at a minimum, and perhaps twice that if everything falls into place. But it must move quickly. This is an election year, with many other distractions, including an economic crisis and soaring fuel prices, and there is not a lot of time left to pass legislation. 
 So far, this Congress has passed one wilderness bill -- setting aside more than 100,000 acres of clear streams, alpine peaks and old-growth forests in Washington State. An additional 900,000 acres of potential wilderness in five states -- including 250,000 acres in Colorado's Rocky Mountains -- would be protected in a bill introduced in the Senate last month by Jeff Bingaman of New Mexico. 
 There are also a dozen other measures at various stages in the legislative process -- including several that would protect large areas in California -- and these could conceivably push the total to two million.
 Wilderness areas are more strictly protected than any other federal lands, including the national parks. Motorized transport and commerce are forbidden, hiking and fishing allowed. The wilderness system now covers about 107 million acres nationwide, about half of it in Alaska, or about 4.8 percent of the nation's land mass. 
 The Bush administration has mainly regarded public lands as a commercial asset, exploiting them for resources like natural gas. Gale Norton, the administration's first interior secretary, actually removed protections the Clinton administration had provisionally given to 2.6 million acres in Utah, while announcing that she had no interest in proposing any new wilderness lands. 
 Still, the administration has not discouraged Congress from making its own proposals, and President Bush -- hoping to improve his slim conservation credentials -- has indicated that he will sign bills that reach his desk. It is now up to Congress to get them there.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILDERNESS (95%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); LEGISLATION (79%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); MOUNTAINS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); HIKING (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JEFF BINGAMAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2008



522 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills, auctions on Tuesday of four-week bills and 20-year Treasury inflation-protected securities, an auction of two-year notes on Wednesday and an auction of five-year notes on Thursday. 
 According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 1.45 percent, the rate on the six-month issue was 1.91 percent and the rate on the four-week issue was 1.26 percent.
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 TUESDAY
 State of Minnesota, $432.2 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 WEDNESDAY
 Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, $500 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 Santa Clara Unified School District, $120 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 City of Grand Rapids, Mich., $65 million of sewer system revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Department of Airports of the City of Los Angeles, Calif., $905.1 million of debt securities. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
 Eagle Mountain-Saginaw Independent School District, Tex., $96 million of unlimited tax school building revenue bonds. First Southwest Co.
 Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund Finance Corporation, $625 million of revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Harris County, Tex., $322.8 million of toll road senior lien revenue and refunding bonds. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
 Imperial Irrigation District, Calif., $240 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Indiana Finance Authority, $71.3 million of revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 Jacksonville Health Facilities Authority, Fla., $118 million of debt securities. Banc of America Securities.
 LaGrange-Troup County Hospital Authority, Ga., $50 million of revenue anticipation certificates. JPMorgan Securities.
 Livingston Independent School District, Tex., $53.5 million of debt securities. RBC Capital Markets.
 Maryland Health and Higher Educational Facilities Authority, $132.6 million of Johns Hopkins University revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 Maryland Health and Higher Educational Authority, $52.7 million of debt securities. Banc of America Securities.
 Massachusetts Health and Educational Facilities Authority, $335 million of debt securities for Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Lehman Brothers.
 Michigan State Hospital Authority, $203 million of debt securities for McLaren Health Care. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Missouri Housing Development Commission, $65 million of single-family mortgage revenue bonds. George K. Baum & Co.
 Mobile, Ala., $63.2 million of general obligation refunding and improvement warrants. Morgan Keegan & Co.
 New Jersey Health Care Facilities Financing Authority, $249.7 million of revenue bonds for Hospital Asset Transformation Program. Morgan Stanley.
 Paulding County School District, Ga., $62.5 million of general obligation bonds. Morgan Keegan & Co.
 Pennsylvania Turnpike, $225 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch.
 South Dakota Housing Development Authority, $66 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 State of Connecticut, $200 million of revenue bonds for state revolving fund. M. R. Beal & Co.
 Tennessee Housing, $50 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch.
 Texas Transportation Commission, $169.3 million of revenue bonds for state highway fund first tier. Morgan Keegan & Co.
 Washington Health Care Facilities Authority, Wash., $124.3 million of debt securities. Banc of America Securities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); HOSPITALS (86%); HEALTH CARE (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (72%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX LAW (69%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (68%); PORT AUTHORITIES (68%); HURRICANES (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (93%); MORGAN STANLEY (92%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%); FIRST SOUTHWEST CO (67%); GEORGE K BAUM & CO (62%); MORGAN KEEGAN & CO INC (62%); M R BEAL & CO (60%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (53%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (53%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (93%); MS (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (79%); MOBILE, AL, USA (69%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2008



523 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2195 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: July 21, 2008

 BODY:
International
 IRAQI GOVERNOR THREATENS TO RESIGN
 After Son's Killing by U.S. Troops
 An Iraqi governor threatened to resign in protest after American Special Operations forces killed his son and a nephew during a raid in the northern city of Bayji. It is the latest in a series of operations that have resulted in the deaths of civilians or close associates of Iraqi government officials, and comes at a sensitive time in negotiations between American and Iraqi officials over the terms of a new security agreement. PAGE A10
 A MARKET FOR DEATH IN A BOTTLE
 Pentobarbital, a barbiturate commonly known as Nembutal, is used to euthanize animals and has become a preferred means for ailing and aging patients looking to end their lives. And while it is tightly regulated in most countries, it is readily available in the pet shops of Tijuana, Mexico. ''We've probably had 100 people come in asking for the drug in the last couple years,'' one veterinarian said. PAGE A5 
 13 KILLED IN AFGHAN AIRSTRIKES
 The United States military said it was beginning an investigation into an episode in which United States and NATO missile and mortar strikes in Afghanistan killed nine Afghan police officers. Four people were killed in another event, when two mortar shells fired by the NATO-led force in Afghanistan went astray. PAGE A11
 A DIVIDED ANGLICAN CONFERENCE
 As the Most Rev. Rowan Williams, the archbishop of Canterbury, above, presided over the beginning of the Lambeth Conference, a meeting of the Anglican clergy, the prospect loomed of a worldwide schism in the denomination. A large contingent of traditionalist clergy boycotted the conference -- protesting the issue of gay priests and bishops, and Bishop Gene Robinson, the first openly gay man to become an Anglican bishop, was not invited. PAGE A5
 POPE CRITICIZES MATERIALISM
 In his final address to young Catholics gathered in Australia, Pope Benedict XVI sharply denounced the violence and materialism of the modern age. ''A new generation of Christians is being called to help build a world in which God's gift of life is welcomed, respected and cherished -- not rejected, feared as a threat and destroyed,'' he told a crowd, estimated by the organizers at 400,000. PAGE A9
 BERLIN AS FASHION HUB
 Germany is in need of a fashion capital, and Berlin's mayor said that his ''poor but sexy'' city, which is need of a new industry to help counter its perpetual economic woes, could be that place. For a little while, the city could claim that it was the center of the fashion world: A rare dash of ostentation arrived for Berlin's fashion week, via a new fashion award. PAGE A5
 NATIONAL
 CLINTON LENDS HER CAMPAIGN 
 More Money to Reduce Debt
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton lent her campaign an additional $1 million at the end of June, underscoring the difficulty she is having staying ahead of creditors and retiring a mountain of campaign debt, filings show. Even though the fight for the Democratic nomination came to a close in early June, with Senator Barack Obama emerging as the presumed nominee, Mrs. Clinton's debts to vendors increased to $12 million at the end of the month from $10.4 million at the end of May. PAGE A16
 MESSAGES FROM THE PAST
 As the Music Hall theater in downtown Portsmouth, N.H., undergoes a renovation, the little treasures accumulate: two faded green tickets, numbers 29 and 313, for a 1913 performance of ''The Rose of Wicklow,'' an Army recruiting pamphlet from the Korean War (''Follow Me''), a wallet lost by a 17-year-old boy in 1957 (''MY NAME IS: Kevin M. Guy'') -- pieces of the past for future audiences to appreciate. This Land, by Dan Barry. PAGE A12
 CANDIDATES GOING TO CHURCH
 The Rev. Rick Warren, he of ''The Purpose-Driven Life,'' has gotten Senators John McCain and Barack Obama to agree to attend a candidate's forum at his Saddleback Church, in Lake Forest, Calif., on Aug. 16. How? ''I've known both the guys for a long time, they're both friends of mine, and I knew them before they ran for office, so I just called them up.'' PAGE A14
 IT'S THE STUPID ECONOMY
 Senator Barack Obama may be spending the week picking up headlines from Baghdad to Berlin, but if he wants to narrow Senator John McCain's advantage on the issue of national security, the struggling economy offers an opportunity to build his own edge. But polls suggest that Mr. Obama has not cemented his advantage. The Caucus, by John Harwood. PAGE A14
 NEW YORK REPORT 
 AN UNLIKELY ALLIANCE BRINGS
 Summer Calm to Bronx Pool
 Some of them are former gang members, some are members still, the dozen or so young men who volunteer each week at the Crotona Pool in the Bronx. It is an unlikely alliance, to be sure, but they command instant respect and attention from the children, and their help has been welcomed. And since they started dropping in for a few hours each week, pool officials say, violence has plummeted. As a result, the pool has become the place to be on muggy summer days. PAGE A18
 BUSINESS
 FANNIE AND FREDDIE'S TROUBLES
 Are Stirring Concerns Abroad
 With a significant number of the investment in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac coming from overseas, how the government handles their rescue will ultimately test the world's faith in American markets. It could also influence the level of interest rates and weigh on the strength of the dollar for years to come, analysts say. ''No less than the international perception of the credit quality of the U.S. government is at stake,'' one said. PAGE C1
 FEARS OF SMALL COMPUTERS
 The personal computer industry expects to sell tens of millions of low-cost, small, energy-efficient devices intended largely for surfing Web sites and checking e-mail. But industry analysts say that the emergence of the new machines could threaten titans like Microsoft and Intel, or even H.P. and Dell, because they built their companies on the notion that consumers want more power and functions, not less. PAGE C1
 FEDEXING HOLLYWOOD
 In shaky economic times, putting money into Hollywood movies is not generally thought to be the safest kind of investment. So why is it that the founder of FedEx, Frederick W. Smith, generally celebrated as one of the smartest minds in business, recently agreed to be the equity partner in a $550 million, 15-movie deal? PAGE C4
 DR. BLOGGER
 Dr. Arnold Kim's Web site tracking gossip, rumor and facts about the Apple computer company had been a hobby while he earned his medical degree. But a site that attracts more than 4.4 million people and 40 million page views a month is the kind of site that can provide a living. So this month, Dr. Kim stopped practicing medicine and started blogging full time. PAGE C1
 BEWARE THE EX
 A roman a clef that includes, among others, a character drawn from James Taylor, written by one of his ex-wives (no, not Carly, but she's in there, too); and a blog for grumblings about Sam Zell, the Chicago real estate mogul who took the Tribune Company private last year and has since been cutting budgets and jobs. Media Talk. PAGE C5
 CUTTING THE NEWS
 A new study found that most American newspapers publish less foreign and national news than they did three years ago and have smaller news staffs. This information in itself will not qualify as news to people who follow the business. But the study, based on a written survey of the top editors at 259 newspapers of all sizes and interviews with some, seeks to quantify the change. PAGE C6
 The Facebook Economy C1 
 Electronic Newspapers C6
 SPORTS
 MAKING AN INTENSIVE STUDY
 Of the Long and Short of Golf
 It's a familiar golf platitude: the key to low scores is a good short game. But Mark Broadie, a Columbia University professor who has spent the last four years painstakingly collecting, storing and analyzing shot data of amateurs and PGA Tour professionals in a computer program called Golfmetrics, dares to dispute the accepted belief that the short game is king. Yes, he knows it's heresy. On Par, by Bill Pennington. PAGE D5 
 BEIJING'S NO BERLIN
 The prevailing view in the Western world is that China's communist government is treating the 2008 Games as a propaganda exercise, much as the Nazis did in 1936. Mary Lou Skok disagrees. ''I think it's kind of like oranges and apples,'' she said. ''The athletes know more today about Beijing and China and communism.'' Her perspective is informed: She was a swimmer on the 1936 team in Berlin. PAGE D7
 FIRST-TIME LEADER FOR TOUR
 In the last half-mile of a steep mountain climb at the finish of a long stage at the Tour de France, Frank Schleck, who started the day a second behind Cadel Evans in the overall standings, rode away and into the yellow jersey for the first time in his career. Three other contenders for the overall victory also beat Evans to the finish, leaving five men within a minute of the leader. PAGE D2
 TWINS WINNING DESPITE LOSSES
 The star center fielder Torii Hunter and the ace pitcher Johan Santana departed in the off-season. But the play of a collection of young new faces, including Carlos Gomez, the exciting but erratic center fielder, has kept the Minnesota Twins in the thick of the American League Central race. And credit for integrating the newcomers -- which can require frequent in-game tutorials -- goes to Manager Ron Gardenhire and his staff. PAGE D1
 Man Dies in Triathlon D7
 OBITUARIES
 LYALL WATSON, 69
 A maverick scientific polymath and explorer, he wrote the best-selling book ''Supernature'' and introduced the ''hundredth monkey'' theory to explain the sudden and inexplicable transmission of behavior and ideas across social groups. Mr. Watson's interests and academic degrees embraced animal behavior, anthropology, chemistry, botany and geology, and he chafed at the limitations of traditional science, which he considered inadequate to address the mysteries of the natural world. PAGE A17
 Arts
 DESPITE SIRENS AND A CYCLONE,
 The Only Doom Is in the Lyrics
 Indie rock's Siren Music Festival, presented by The Village Voice, swarmed Coney Island in its eighth installment. Bands ranged from the torchy sounds of Beach House's ballads to garage-punk blaring of Times New Viking. Lyrics often seemed to deal with the end of things -- relationships, lives, nations and mankind -- and the guitar ruled the day. One stage was so close to the Cyclone roller coaster that the sound of gears segued into the sound of the drums. Page E1 
 THE REALITY OF LOVE ... ON TV
 Date my ex? Or date me and my kids? Skip either, seeing as how you can just watch it on television these days. In Bravo's ''Date My Ex: Jo & Slade,'' featuring Slade Smiley and Jo de la Rosa of ''The Real Housewives of Orange County,'' Mr. Smiley, Ms. de la Rosa's ex-fiance, is in charge of finding his replacement. In ''Must Love Kids,'' on TLC, three single mothers search for kind, decent men to take them out and be nice to their children, Ginia Bellafante writes. Page E4 
 GRIM, DISDAINFUL, BUT STILL GOING
 Samuel Beckett's prose could be compared to a mine, in that what is there is buried, glittering in the darkness. In ''I'll Go On,'' Barry McGovern and Gerry Dukes have adapted three of Mr. Beckett's novels -- ''Molloy,'' ''Malone Dies,'' and ''The Unnamable,'' often considered to be a trilogy -- into a play of sardonic observations and grim humor. The dialogue shows a marked contempt for life, but not for speaking, as the words pour forth, Charles Isherwood writes. Page E2
 FEET STOMP AND ARMS TWIST
 As heels thundered down like gunshots, the curve of a graceful arm wound over Nelida Tirador's head. Ms. Tirador's flamenco at the Joyce SoHo included the fellow dancer El Keko de Cordoba, who appeared to hog the stage a bit, and was accompanied by the music of Roberto Castellon. Ms. Tirador performed a new solo set called ''Delirio'' before a projected film of close-ups of her in the studio, sans her flamenco finery, Gia Koulas writes. Page E5 
 Editorial 
 FAILING ZIMBABWE
 The brutality with which Robert Mugabe stole Zimbabwe's elections last month embarrassed even his usual friends, allies and enablers. Unfortunately, it did not embarrass them enough. PAGE A18
 PUSHING BACK ON IMMIGRATION
 There is nothing good about the country's ever more merciless campaign of immigration enforcement. But at least there are emerging signs of resistance, from one of the most important, yet curiously disengaged, players in the debate: employers. PAGE A18
 Op-Ed
 WILLIAM KRISTOL
 Has Barack Obama chosen the Victory Column in Berlin as his speech venue because he intends to make the case for ... victory? Perhaps Mr. Obama will challenge those who think it impossible to imagine victory today. Perhaps he will also warn of the temptation of assuming we can somehow avoid confronting terrorists and jihadists, and those who support them. PAGE A19
 THE RISK OF TOO MUCH OVERSIGHT
 The Department of Homeland Security is hampered by Congress, writes Stephen R. Heifetz. It is forced to answer to too many committees, thereby making it difficult to adequately prioritize risk. For the department to function properly, he writes, oversight must be consolidated. PAGE A19

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (86%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (86%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); BOYCOTTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); PETS (74%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); FASHION & APPAREL (64%); FASHION DESIGNERS (60%); FASHION SHOWS (60%); AGING (54%); PET STORES & SUPPLIES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (72%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); GERMANY (93%); AUSTRALIA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2008



524 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1565 words

HEADLINE: New Regulator In Rescue Plan Spurs Debate

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
When the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., orchestrated a rescue effort for the nation's two largest mortgage finance companies last week, most of the attention was focused on the infusion of cash and credit that the government would provide. But his plan also relies on the creation of a new regulatory agency to control the companies more tightly over the long term and to limit the risk they pose to the country's financial system. 
 Under the measure, Congress would lose some of its authority to oversee the companies, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, including the right to determine how much capital they must keep as a cushion against losses. That role would shift to the new regulator, which would be called the Federal Housing Finance Agency; the director of the agency would be appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate.
 While experts on the companies agree that the proposed regulator would be stronger than the existing one, housed in the Department of Housing and Urban Development, some contend that the legislation does not go far enough. 
 These critics say that the measure tilts in favor of the companies, even as it tries to strike a balance between promoting affordable housing -- a primary mission of the government-sponsored mortgage giants -- and setting limits on them to diminish the risks they pose to the world financial system. A new regulator, they say, would have significant new powers, but still less than bank regulators now have.
 As a result, the companies, which have a reputation for retaining some of the most influential lobbyists in Washington, could continue to exploit those weaknesses to their advantage, these people say, potentially encouraging them to take on more risks that could ultimately require a taxpayer bailout.
 ''The new law will not give the regulator either the mandate or the capacity of a bank regulator,'' said Thomas H. Stanton, an authority on the companies who has written several books on them. ''The new law creates a cumbersome regulatory process to implement many parts of the bill,'' he said, adding, ''I'm afraid we will need to revisit the issue of the proper regulatory framework for the companies.''
 Even Mr. Paulson, in a television interview on Sunday, conceded that tougher regulation was secondary to reassuring the financial markets of the fiscal health of Fannie and Freddie, which provide financing for roughly 80 percent of all new home loans in the country.
 ''You know, the second part of this is having a strong regulator with real teeth, with real responsibilities and powers,'' Mr. Paulson said on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS. ''And this is going to be key to putting us in a position where we can address the risks that they pose and that have been focused on. But our first priority today is the stability of the capital markets.'' 
 There have been previous efforts to tighten regulations and establish more independent oversight of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, including a 1992 law that established the current regulatory framework for the companies. Congress and the White House have tussled for decades over which branch of government should control the companies. Now the Bush administration is urging lawmakers to act swiftly to calm jittery markets.
 The legislation, which Congress is expected to approve as early as this week, would make it more difficult for the companies to intimidate or weaken the regulator by attacking its budget in Congress. Instead, they would be assessed fees directly by the regulator, just as commercial and investment banks are by their regulators.
 Lawmakers were negotiating through the end of last week over differences between the House and Senate versions of the legislation. One detail still on the table is whether the measure would become effective immediately, as the Senate bill provides, or in six months under a new president, as the House bill stipulates. 
 As a practical matter, though, Bush administration officials acknowledge it will take many months to set up a new regulatory office and begin to consider new rules, forestalling any immediate effort to rein in the companies well into 2009.
 Moreover, the administration has little incentive to curb Fannie and Freddie because it is relying on them more than ever to pull the ailing housing market out of its slump by buying most of the mortgages that banks are issuing. 
 House and Senate lawmakers also were considering whether to add last-minute provisions that would give the new regulator the authority to cut the dividends issued by the companies or reduce the millions of dollars in compensation provided annually to top executives.
 As the only big players in the so-called secondary market for home loans, Fannie and Freddie buy billions of dollars in mortgages from lenders. They hold some of those mortgages in their own portfolios as investments; those portfolios now hold about $700 billion in mortgages apiece.
 Other mortgages are used as collateral for securities that are guaranteed by Fannie and Freddie and sold to investors. Money from those sales is then plowed back to the lenders to finance new mortgages. 
 The legislation would set up protracted procedures that critics say would enable Fannie and Freddie to continue to use their enormous political clout with Congress to beat back proposals that their executives view as onerous. For instance, it would require the new regulator to go through a lengthy process to raise the companies' capital standards -- the amount of money that the companies need as a buffer against losses. 
 Capital standards are the lever a regulator uses to control the overall size of a financial institution. Higher rates leave a company with less money to lend. In setting new rules, the regulator would have to focus in particular on the health of the companies and on their mission of helping to finance housing, rather than on the overall risks the companies pose to the financial system.
 In recent days, the administration has proposed that the new regulator consult with the Federal Reserve, which looks at larger systemic risks. Congressional aides were discussing late last week whether the legislation should include that provision, which, in any event, does not give the Fed significant authority to alter new regulations.
 The Bush administration has long sought to regulate Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac more closely, and the plan was revised a week ago to give the administration authority to inject billions of dollars in loans and investments in the two companies to answer concerns about whether they were short on capital. 
 As the housing market has steadily declined, reducing the value of the $5 trillion in mortgages the two companies own or guarantee and the $1.5 trillion in debt outstanding, they have struggled to shore up confidence in their stock and debt.
 Critics say that by relying too heavily on the two companies to pull the country out of its housing slump, the administration postponed longer-term problems.
 ''Hank Paulson is running the Treasury the way he ran Goldman,'' said L. William Seidman, the top regulator during the bailout of the savings and loan industry in the 1980s and early 1990s. ''He's doing everything he can to meet next quarter's numbers. I might do the same thing in his position. But it postpones a lot of bigger problems to the future, when he will be gone.''
 Administration officials said that Mr. Paulson had been seeking an overhaul of the companies for more than a year, and that it was not the administration's fault that Congress had moved so slowly. They also said that the legislation was the product of the typical compromises that accompanied the writing of any law.
 ''We think that this will put us in a substantially stronger position than the current regulatory scheme,'' said Michele Davis, a Treasury Department spokeswoman.
 As they grow larger, the companies pose bigger risks to the financial system, particularly as they continue to suffer losses that erode their capital cushion. That cushion is significantly smaller than that required of banks. 
 With the crucial questions about the companies most likely falling to the next president, senior aides to the presidential campaigns of Senators John McCain and Barack Obama said they wanted legislation that would ultimately give the new regulator broad authority to control the companies. 
 Douglas Holtz-Eakin, Mr. McCain's chief domestic policy adviser, said he hoped the legislation would give the regulator the authority to force the companies to reduce their large portfolios. Mr. Holtz-Eakin, echoing others' concerns, including those of the former Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, has said those portfolios pose the most significant risk to taxpayers.
 ''They were quite rapidly grown in the 1990s and they provide a return to private shareholders, but it is not something from which taxpayers benefit,'' Mr. Holtz-Eakin said.
 Jason Furman, Mr. Obama's economic policy director, said Mr. Obama supported taking steps to ensure that management did not benefit at the expense of taxpayers, for example, by giving the government the authority to curtail executive compensation under certain circumstances.
 ''These companies play a very vital role,'' Mr. Furman said, ''but they also have a set of incentives that heads, their investors win, and tails, the taxpayers lose.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., on ''Face the Nation'' on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARIN COOPER/''FACE THE NATION'') (pg.A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); LOBBYING (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); PUBLIC HOUSING (74%); CITIES (52%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2008



525 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: The FedEx Guy, and 2 Movie Producers

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
As the founder of FedEx, Frederick W. Smith has been celebrated as one of the smartest minds in business. So why, at a time when American investors are avoiding Hollywood, does he keep pouring millions into movies?
 Mr. Smith, who continues to serve as chief executive of FedEx, recently agreed to be the equity partner -- the riskiest position in movie financing arrangements, as the last to be paid -- in a $550 million, 15-movie deal with Alcon Entertainment. The small production company, which has a long-term distribution deal with Warner Brothers, is supposed to deliver the films over the next five years.
 ''The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants 2,'' a follow-up to the modestly successful tear-jerker about four girlfriends, will be the first movie under the financing accord. Warner Brothers will release the film on Aug. 6. 
 ''I sure hope it's a success,'' Mr. Smith said in a rare interview discussing his entertainment investment strategy. ''It's impossible to predict.''
 That impossibility is one reason studios are suddenly having a hard time wooing investors. In recent months, Wall Street's mortgage mess, tight credit markets and the sour economy have combined to slow the torrent of private money flowing into the movie capital. In such volatile financial times, even the most carefree pockets are seeking safety, and that's not Hollywood.
 But Mr. Smith said he believed that Alcon, founded in 1997 with his backing, had figured out how to minimize risk and maximize return. For starters, the company operates on a threadbare budget. The two founders, Broderick Johnson and Andrew A. Kosove, share a cramped office in a nontrendy part of Los Angeles. They keep development costs low by not taking on projects that do not already have a script and, in many cases, a filmmaker attached. 
 Mr. Smith said the biggest mistake a movie investor can make is sampling the stardust. ''Squandering money on overly ambitious vanity projects, trying to be part of a scene, rubbing elbows with fancy stars -- that's how you lose money,'' he said.
 How does Alcon inoculate itself from show business excess? ''The two of us are both in the boat together rowing, and if one is going the wrong direction, he doesn't get very far,'' Mr. Johnson offered. 
 Mr. Kosove said: ''That only happens if you get a ton of success very early on. We feel lucky in some ways that our first film was a total flop,'' referring to ''Lost & Found,'' with David Spade.
 Alcon, named after a mythical archer, also keeps budgets small: the pictures it pursues typically range in price from $15 million to $50 million, although the company allows for budgets of up to $75 million.
 ''That way the relative equity risk per picture is relatively small,'' Mr. Smith said, ''and you get a lot of times at bat, which is important because there is no way you can predict what consumers will respond to. You don't get wiped off the planet if any one project fails.''
 Unlike many producers, Mr. Johnson and Mr. Kosove, who met as undergraduates at Princeton University, do not aspire to create art. One of their biggest hits, the sophomoric Ashton Kutcher comedy ''Dude, Where's My Car?,'' was made for $13 million and sold more than $73 million in tickets worldwide.
 ''Alcon would obviously love to win an Academy Award, but the point of the movie business is to make money,'' Mr. Smith said. ''If you please the critics or the cognoscenti along the way, all the better.''
 That approach is just fine by Warner Brothers, said Alan F. Horn, president and chief operating officer of the studio.
 ''Alcon makes a kind of quality picture that works very well for us,'' he said in an interview. ''These guys are not afraid to go for movies aimed at an older female audience, and that's a nice balance to our internal focus, which is to develop big event movies.'' 
 Mr. Johnson, 41, and Mr. Kosove, 38, met Mr. Smith through an acquaintance and presented him a 222-page business plan. But it was something else that prompted him to start writing checks.
 When the partners got an opportunity to meet with Mr. Smith in the mid-1990s, the two men could not afford plane tickets to Tennessee, where FedEx is based. Mr. Kosove remembered that he had two unused tickets on United Airlines, but both were in his name. So the pair masqueraded as father and son -- no simple feat, since Mr. Kosove is 5 feet, 6 inches tall and white, Mr. Johnson is 6-foot-3 and black.
 ''I figured that any two guys who had the salesmanship to do that were a pretty impressive pair,'' Mr. Smith said. 
 It was Mr. Smith, the two Alcon founders say, who saw potential in ''My Dog Skip.'' The 2000 film, about a shy boy growing up with his mutt, was made for $6 million and was headed straight to video until Mr. Smith intervened. It got a chance in theaters, where it sold about $36 million in tickets.
 For now, attention is focused on ''The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants 2.'' The movie strikes many industry analysts as a hit. Based on the best-selling books by Ann Brashares, the movie stars a quartet of popular television actresses: America Ferrera (''Ugly Betty''), Amber Tamblyn (''Joan of Arcadia''), Alexis Bledel (''Gilmore Girls'') and Blake Lively (''Gossip Girl.'')
 ''I'm really proud of what Alcon has accomplished so far,'' Mr. Smith said. A graduate of Yale, he added: ''It obviously pains me greatly to say that about two Princeton guys.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Movie makers Andrew Kosove, left, and Broderick Johnson. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE MERGEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (92%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); FILM (90%); BUDGETS (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (57%)

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (94%)

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (94%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (94%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (94%)

PERSON: FREDERICK W SMITH (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2008



526 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Rising Value of a Vote In a Struggling Economy

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama is commanding headlines this week from Baghdad to Berlin. But the central front in his war for the White House with Senator John McCain remains communities back home like Warren, Mich.; Columbus, Ohio; and Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 
 If Mr. Obama faces a challenge in narrowing Mr. McCain's advantage on national security, the struggling economy offers the Democratic candidate an opportunity for building his own edge. The ill-timed remarks of Mr. McCain's adviser Phil Gramm, who resigned after he derided ''a nation of whiners'' about the economy, only compounded Republican fears about job losses and market turmoil on President Bush's watch. 
 ''We're all contemplating jumping off tall buildings'' over the fate of conservative policies, as Dan Mitchell, a Cato Institute analyst, put it.
 Yet polls suggest that Mr. Obama hasn't cemented his advantage, while voters remain open to Mr. McCain's arguments and experience. In particular, he has the chance to persuade them in the states he values most.
 Seizing Control
 In some ways, economic events on the ground have led debate toward the remedies of Mr. Obama and his party. While the picture on employment, inflation and housing keeps weakening, Mr. Bush and Congress have lately turned toward government to lift the free market that Republicans normally champion.
 But even Mr. Obama's advisers agree that he hasn't seized control with policy prescriptions of raising taxes on Wall Street and the wealthy, cutting them for working families, providing short-term stimulus, and investing in a long-term shift toward a clean-energy economy. What's disputed is why. 
 On the populist left, analysts cite the absence of edge in Mr. Obama's rhetorical style. Robert Borosage, director of the Committee for America's Future and a onetime adviser to the Rev. Jesse Jackson, speculated that Mr. Obama's tone owes partly to his fear of racial backlash, that '' 'I don't want to be an angry black guy running for president. If I go populist, I'll look angry.' '' 
 In any case, Mr. Borosage argued, ''He hasn't been pointed enough to take the ground that's there.'' 
 In the pro-business center, cool reassurance sounds just right for a first-term senator still introducing himself to ordinary Americans. ''Patiently explaining to people what his change is, that's going to be the work of this campaign,'' said Bruce Reed, president of the Democratic Leadership Council and a Clinton White House veteran. 
 Surveys suggest Mr. Obama particularly needs to explain his stance on the blazing-hot consumer issue of gas prices. Polling by Stan Greenberg, who advised Bill Clinton's 1992 ''It's the Economy, Stupid'' campaign, shows Mr. McCain grabbing the upper hand with his argument for expanded offshore oil drilling and other immediate steps.
 ''McCain's message adding domestic oil production to a policy of alternative energy investment and conservation is favored over Obama's message that blames oil companies, calls for investments in alternative energy, and rejects limited offshore drilling,'' concluded a recent Democracy Corps analysis of Mr. Greenberg's research.
 Where It Matters
 That provides an opening for Mr. McCain on the economy in his most important electoral targets. Mr. McCain has placed top priority on holding Ohio and reversing Democrats' 2004 victories in Michigan, Pennsylvania and New Hampshire, whose combined 42 electoral votes exceed those of Mr. Obama's critical red-state targets of Colorado, Iowa, New Mexico, Nevada and Virginia.
 ''It's not whether he wins or loses the issue nationally, it's whether he wins it in Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania,'' Neil Newhouse, a Republican pollster, said of the economy. That's the turf Mr. McCain aims to occupy while Mr. Obama travels.
 Indeed, Mr. McCain's strategists are seeking to leverage the extraordinary spectacle of Mr. Obama's trip to their benefit. While the young Democrat draws rock-star attention, the veteran Republican will appear in small venues like grocery and hardware stores meant to convey his familiarity with average Americans' economic struggles. 
 Tuesday in New Hampshire, where even in summer voters brace for winter heating expenses, Mr. McCain plans to display an array of products made costlier by high oil prices. As Mr. Obama left the country late last week, Mr. McCain stumped in Michigan, where voters blame the Democratic governor, Jennifer M. Granholm, as well as Mr. Bush for their economic hardships.
 For that reason, as well as his superior familiarity, the Michigan pollster Ed Sarpolus places Mr. McCain in stronger position on the economy for now. ''John McCain is a known quantity,'' Mr. Sarpolus said. ''Barack Obama has the right message for Michigan, but he doesn't have the trust yet.''
 Thus even if Mr. Obama delivers a bravura performance on the world stage, he faces a more vital political struggle upon his return.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART GOLDBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); FAMILY (71%); RESIGNATIONS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%)

COMPANY: SENATOR ENTERTAINMENT AG (91%)

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (56%)

TICKER: SMN1 (FRA) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JESSE JACKSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (90%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2008



527 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Sobriety, Herr Obama

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: Paris 

 BODY:
 Barack Obama has already won the U.S. election by a landslide. In Europe, that is. Polls show the French putting the first African-American in the White House with 86 percent backing. Obamania is about as intense in Germany and Britain, the two other European countries the Senator will visit this week.
 So you might ask why Obama's bothering. He's got this constituency sewn up. You might also ask why the passion of these European societies for a black man stands in such flagrant contrast to their reluctance to vote minorities into their own legislatures. Freud might have something to say. 
 I dropped by the Elysee Palace to get a fix on things. The food was shockingly awful -- tired crudites, desiccated hake, pasty potato puree -- but the Chateau Batailley 2001 was a beauty. Seems President Nicolas Sarkozy's too busy for solids.
 Everything's hush-hush about Obama's movements, but we do know he'll be at the palace Friday for a 90-minute session with Sarkozy, followed by a press conference. That's a first: French leaders don't do pressers with U.S. presidential candidates.
 But Obama's visit is also, or maybe principally, about European politics. Sarkozy gets a touch of the Obamaura. Think halos in Florentine Renaissance paintings. Such reflected glory can do no harm, as Sarkozy the opportunist knows well.
 The two men already know each other thanks to Jean-David Levitte, then the French U.S. ambassador and now Sarkozy's shrewd national security adviser. He arranged a meeting with Obama when Sarko showed up in Washington as interior minister in September 2006. They got along famously.
 The bonhomie is nice, but there's work to be done. Obama arrives in Europe at an all-change moment. A U.S. diplomat is attending (inconclusive) discussions with Iran; there's White House talk of a ''general time horizon'' for withdrawing U.S. troops from Iraq; casualties in Afghanistan have risen above Iraqi levels in recent months; and Israel is holding indirect peace talks with Syria.
 Iran tops the agenda for the Sarkozy-Obama talks. The French like the incipient dialogue but want sanctions increased until Iran suspends uranium enrichment. Iran's economy is a shambles (it's importing 40 percent of its gasoline) and France sees an opportunity to redouble difficulties until the mullahs cede.
 It's interesting when a European power worries the United States might go wobbly. Every now and again Venus and Mars change places. This flux is an opportunity for Europe and America to get their act together.
 Take Syria. France is convinced Damascus wants peace with Israel. President Bashar al-Assad had a long meeting with Sarkozy last week. He told the French president he hoped current Turkish-mediated talks with Israel would lead to direct negotiations in the fall co-sponsored by the United States and France, with the two countries guaranteeing security.
 It's too early to say if this idea will fly, although French contacts with Israel and the White House suggest it might. What's clear is that there's a significant chance here for the United States and Europe, in concert, to make a difference. Nothing would isolate Iran as much as a Syrian-Israeli peace.
 Much has changed since 2000. Too much thinking is still so 20th-century. Wealth and power are shifting from the West. But a basic truism holds: when the United States and Europe work at cross purposes, as in Iraq, disaster ensues. When they work together, as in the Balkans or more recently Kenya, good things happen.
 No better illustration of this exists than a united Germany, which is why Obama has chosen to make a speech there Thursday. Again, European politics have intervened. The Social Democrats favor an appearance at the Brandenburg Gate, but Angela Merkel, the Christian Democrat Chancellor who has not met Obama, nixed so presidential a venue for a candidate.
 Enter Germany history, as the Obama advance team has discovered. Some bright spark suggested the Victory Column in the Tiergarten as an alternative venue, but an older hand pointed out that one of the victories in question was Bismarck's quashing of France -- not ideal on the eve of the Paris visit.
 Templehof airport was aired as a compromise, a suitable nod to the Allies' 1948 airlift, but with the downside that it was designed by Albert Speer, Hitler's architect. Aaah well, the past is ineffaceable.
 That's a good intellectual departure point for Obama. As Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg, the Chrisitan Democrat foreign policy spokesman, said: ''Obama mustn't give the impression everything will change. He must build trust but not overload visions.''
 Obama can galvanize this change moment. Capitalizing on shifts (Israel-Syria, Israel-Palestine, Iraq, Iran) will be the work of his presidency if he wins. On all these fronts, and Afghanistan, he needs Europe. So keep the mania in check. Location, location, location has been the Berlin issue. My advice to him is: sobriety, sobriety, sobriety. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); PAINTING (73%); PEACE PROCESS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (52%); ARMED FORCES (50%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (89%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (69%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); SYRIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAQ (92%); GERMANY (90%); TURKEY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2008



528 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Israel, Iran and the Unthinkable

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Using Bombs to Stave Off War'' (Op-Ed, July 18):
 While Benny Morris has done great work in exploring the Israeli-Arab conflict, his article left me amazed. Does he truly believe that there is any possibility of an Israeli pre-emptive nuclear strike?
 If Iran's theocratic leadership is ''self-sacrificial,'' why did the regime end the war with Saddam Hussein, instead of sacrificing more and more ''martyrs'' to end the Iraqi dictator's apostasy? A leadership truly blind to the material costs of its actions to its people would have carried out the war to either its own end, or Saddam Hussein's. 
 Iran has a very complex regime made up of many different factions with different goals, and it is fantastical to think that all of them would invite their own nuclear annihilation. Gabriel Paniza 
 New York, July 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 During the 2006 war in Lebanon, the Iranian government made no secret of its full support for Hezbollah. 
 After witnessing the hero's welcome Hezbollah and its hosts in the Lebanese government gave to Samir Kuntar, the vicious child murderer recently exchanged by Israel for the bodies of two abducted soldiers, can we really afford to let Hezbollah's supporters in Iran develop a doomsday weapon? 
 Israel knows the answer to this question, and has repeatedly demonstrated that it will defend itself against such a threat, with all means necessary. 
 The leaders of the world should heed Benny Morris's warning and not let the situation escalate to such a point. 
 Justin Rosenblum 
 Brooklyn, July 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Benny Morris assumes that if Iran acquired nuclear weapons, it would use them to destroy Israel. He also assumes that ''deterrence may not work as well'' with Iran as it did with the Soviet Union. 
 It is very likely that both assumptions are wrong. 
 If this is the case, is it really worth it to kill thousands or even millions of people in Iran and the rest of the Middle East? The answer is no. 
 There is a need to solve political disputes through diplomatic means. Israeli leaders and intellectuals must rethink their strategic postures. In today's world, the use of force may backfire and result in severe consequences.
 Abbas J. Ali 
 Indiana, Pa., July 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Benny Morris's prediction that Israel will attack Iran is chilling. 
 I believe that Mr. Morris is correct that America has no stomach for (or ability to wage) a third war in the Middle East, and I fervently hope that the lame-duck Bush administration does not agree to support Israel in such a venture.
 Israel's government is reeling from corruption charges. How can we be sure that Israel is not lying to the world about its situation? What if it is using the same playbook that the Bush administration used to attack Iraq? 
 Starting a war with Iran would be a disaster for our country and for the Middle East. And ultimately, it would not help Israel. 
 Israel needs to tone down its rhetoric and learn to live without bullying and threatening its neighbors. Perhaps if Israel made peace in the Gaza Strip, it would not feel so threatened. 
 Deborah Rhodus 
 Dallas, July 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Benny Morris may be right in his scary analysis of the consequences of an Israeli attack on Iran. But I question his statement that the alternative to a successful Israeli conventional air strike ''is an Iran turned into a nuclear wasteland,'' and his fear that that may be a gamble some Iranian leaders believe may be worthwhile ''if the prospect is Israel's demise.'' 
 It is nonsense to assume that Iranian leaders who in the last two decades have overseen impressive social and economic development would throw it all away just to see Israel's demise. 
 While the irresponsible call by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran for Israel to be ''wiped off the map'' is used to justify such paranoid thinking, would anyone intent on developing a bomb to wipe out another country (along with its neighbors) make such a threat years before the bomb is at hand? 
 If Mr. Ahmadinejad's threat has any strategic value, it must be in a defensive context, to make more credible a vast Iranian response to an Israeli attack.
 Let us pray that cooler, more rational heads than Mr. Morris imagines will prevail. Djavad Salehi-Isfahani 
 Blacksburg, Va., July 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Benny Morris's argument for pre-emptive military action against Iran hinges on the possibility that Iran might act irrationally and suicidally, a possibility suggested by Iran's assumed pursuit of nuclear weapons in the face of sure pre-emptive action. 
 But consider another possibility.
 In recent history, Iran has seen its government replaced and its territory invaded by foreign powers. Iran may seek nuclear weapons not to destroy Israel, a move guaranteed to result in its own destruction, but to gain respect. 
 Iran may be mistaken to pursue its goal this way -- Israel did not think that it was mistaken to do so -- but if this is Iran's goal, attacking Iran will intensify, not solve, the problem. 
 Jamie Baldwin 
 Redding, Conn., July 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Benny Morris's call to bomb Iran finds echoes in history. The United States contemplated pre-emptive strikes against the nuclear facilities of the Soviet Union, China and North Korea. The Soviet Union, India and Egypt contemplated bombing the nuclear weapons plants of, respectively, China, Pakistan and Israel. 
 In each case, the contemplator thought the nuclear proliferator to be a lethal enemy. 
 Israel took a different tack regarding Iraq in 1981 and Syria in 2007, and the United States followed suit in its strikes against Iraq's nuclear facilities in 1991 and suspected sites in 2003. 
 This prompts the question: Were the United States and others wrong not to bomb adversary sites in earlier eras? History suggests not. It finds that even for countries believed to be ''crazy,'' getting the bomb is a sobering experience given the glaring retaliatory consequences of nuclear use. 
 Those who propose bombing Iran today must answer why the mullahs would be less prudent than their nuclear-armed predecessors. 
 Bennett Ramberg 
 Los Angeles, July 18, 2008
 The writer, a policy analyst at the State Department, 1989-90, is the author of a book about military strikes on nuclear facilities.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANTHONY RUSSO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); MURDER (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); RELIGION (56%); CORRUPTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (83%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); LEBANON (90%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2008



529 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Batman Rules the Night, and the Whole Weekend

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Fevered fans pushed ''The Dark Knight,'' the sixth of the Warner Brothers series of ''Batman'' movies, to record three-day ticket sales of $155.3 million over the weekend, shoring up what so far had been a wobbly year at the box office.
By Warner's estimate the film narrowly eclipsed opening-weekend ticket sales last year of $151.1 million for Sony Pictures' ''Spider-Man 3,'' the previous record holder. 
Including a solid $27.6 million for the musical ''Mamma Mia!'' from Universal Pictures, the weekend's Top 12 films took in about $249.6 million, according to the box-office consultant Media by Numbers. That lifted the domestic box-office total for the year to $5.36 billion.
That is still down about 1 percent from last year, and the number of theatergoers is down 3.7 percent. But the weekend performance gave studios and theater owners alike reason to take heart, as it proved that even a familiar franchise like ''Batman'' can still bring surprises.
''It just took on a life of its own,'' said Dan Fellman, Warner's president for theatrical distribution. ''You never expect anything like this.''
Excitement around ''The Dark Knight'' began to build sharply weeks ago, much of it fed by anticipation of the performance as the Joker by Heath Ledger, who died in January.
Theaters began adding midnight and then early-morning screenings of the film as fans scooped up advance tickets online. At sellout shows around the country, audiences -- including more than a few viewers who came made up to resemble Mr. Ledger's evil clown character -- pushed Friday ticket sales to an estimated $66.4 million, including an extraordinary $18.5 million from the midnight showings.
That the film's opening took on an event status that previous ''Batman'' movies never quite achieved apparently owed something to its strong presence in Imax format.
The film -- directed by Christopher Nolan and starring Christian Bale -- was filmed partly using Imax cameras and opened on nearly 100 Imax screens in the United States. That meant a boost at the box office because Imax tickets cost an average of $12.80, about 80 percent more than the overall average ticket price of $7.08, as estimated by Media by Numbers.
Imax screenings contributed $6.2 million to the ''Dark Knight'' box office, beating the previous Imax record, $4.7 million for ''Spider-Man 3,'' by more than 30 percent, said Greg Foster, the president of filmed entertainment for Imax.
The summer box office had been solid but not spectacular, with tickets for the season up slightly at $2.76 billion, thanks to price inflation, and attendance down about 2 percent. Films like ''Iron Man'' from Paramount Pictures and Marvel Studios and ''Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull'' from Paramount and Lucasfilm have topped the $300 million mark.
But ''Hancock,'' an off-center superhero movie from Sony Pictures and the star Will Smith, came up short of last year's ''Transformers'' box office over the July Fourth holiday, and several releases, including ''Meet Dave'' from Eddie Murphy and 20th Century Fox, fell flat.
This weekend Fox suffered another embarrassment with the animated ''Space Chimps,'' which took in just $7.4 million and placed seventh.
The box-office take for ''Mamma Mia!,'' starring Meryl Streep, was almost identical to that on the equivalent weekend last year by ''Hairspray,'' a New Line Cinema musical that took in $27.5 million in first-weekend sales and went on to make $118.9 million.
Other top-performing films over the weekend included ''Hancock,'' with $14 million (for a total of $191.5 million); ''Journey to the Center of the Earth'' from Warner, with $11.9 million (a total of $43.1 million); ''Hellboy II: The Golden Army'' from Universal, with $10 million ($56.4 million total); and ''Wall-E'' from Walt Disney with $9.8 million ($182.5 million total).
For all the records the weekend's performance also underscored how much harder studios have been working for their hits in recent years. The 1989 ''Batman,'' with a reported budget of $35 million, opened to about $40.5 million and went on to take in more than $251 million at the domestic box office.
''The Dark Knight,'' by contrast, has been reported to cost more than $180 million. Given the pattern of contemporary blockbusters, the film appears unlikely to match the performance of ''Batman,'' whose domestic box office would be on the order of $450 million if adjusted to reflect ticket-price inflation.
Today's event films tend to open bigger, and disappear more quickly, than those of the past. Thus, ''Spider-Man 3'' took in about 45 percent of its $336.5 million in total sales on its opening weekend, and ''Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End'' took in 37 percent of its $309.4 million on the first weekend last year.
''Batman,'' by contrast, relied on the opening weekend for just 16 percent of sales.
Mr. Fellman said he believed ''The Dark Knight'' would continue to outpace ''Spider-Man 3'' in coming days, thanks to a midsummer run when school is out. ''Spider-Man 3'' was released in early May and had to fight harder for midweek business.
By week's end, Mr. Fellman said, ''The Dark Knight'' will probably take in more than the $205 million in total domestic ticket sales for its predecessor, ''Batman Begins,'' in 2005.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jose Rivera, in Joker makeup, at a Times Square showing.(E1)
 At a first-day showing of ''The Dark Knight'' in Times Square: from left, Sean Bateman, Sara Kratovil and Kate Mackenbach. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(E4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET SALES (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); THEATER (58%)

COMPANY: IMAX CORP (83%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (57%)

TICKER: IMX (TSX) (83%); IMAX (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (83%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (83%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (83%)

PERSON: HEATH LEDGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%)

TITLE: Dark Knight, The (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



530 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Save By Increasing Doctors' Fees

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
Cutting health costs by paying doctors more? 
 That is the premise of experiments under way by federal and state government agencies and many insurers around the country. The idea is that by paying family physicians, internists and pediatricians to devote more time and attention to their patients, insurers and patients can save thousands of dollars downstream on unnecessary tests, visits to expensive specialists and avoidable trips to the hospital. 
 Nationally, Medicare and commercial insurers pay an average of only about $60 a visit to the office of a primary-care doctor and rarely if ever pay for telephone or e-mail consultations. Many health policy experts say the payments are not enough to let the doctors spend more than a few minutes with each patient. 
 Robert Williamson, a 60-year-old Philadelphia man, recalls the cursory exam he received a few years ago from a harried doctor who, Mr. Williamson says, missed the danger signals and sent him home. A short time later Mr. Williamson had a stroke. 
 For want of a careful examination by a primary-care doctor, Mr. Williamson became one of countless Americans each year whose unidentified or under-treated illnesses escalate into medical conditions with catastrophic personal and economic costs. Besides incurring $30,000 in hospital bills paid by his employer's insurer, Mr. Williamson had to stop working as a customer service representative at Philadelphia Gas Works and go on Social Security disability, at a current cost to taxpayers of $1,900 a month.
 With Mr. Williamson's new doctor, such an outcome would be much less likely. 
 ''I give him my heart and diabetes readings by e-mail and phone, without getting up out of my chair,'' Mr. Williamson said. ''I can get better directions, at the very moment I need them. It's life-saving.''
 His current internist, Richard Baron, is one of more than 100 physicians in metropolitan Philadelphia taking part in the experiment, which is being conducted jointly by some of the region's largest insurers. Dr. Baron still gets a fee of only about $64 for each office visit. But his five-doctor group will also receive $200,000 to $300,000 this year beyond their regular fees to keep better track of their 8,400 patients. 
 ''We are trying to do more e-mail care and telephone care, which we haven't been paid for in the past,'' Dr. Baron said. 
 Insurers are conducting similar pilot projects in at least a half-dozen states, in experiments involving thousands of doctors and nearly 2 million patients. Many more are in the planning stages, at the urging of health policy experts and employers that provide medical benefits. 
 The big government health care programs, Medicaid and Medicare, are also studying the concept. A Medicaid experiment already under way in North Carolina saved the government program in that state about $162 million in 2006. That was 11 percent less than the state would have spent under the old system of reimbursement, according to an audit by Mercer, a consulting firm.
 Earlier this month, as part of a bill to protect Medicare payments to doctors, the Senate overrode President Bush's veto to authorize $100 million to finance a three-year Medicare pilot to further test the concept of spending more on primary care. 
 Under the various payment experiments, family doctors are encouraged to hire additional staff to help monitor patients' treatment and follow-up, and to help patients stay ahead of problems by sending reminders when they are due for preventive tests like mammograms and colon exams. 
 For people like Mr. Williamson with serious chronic illnesses, the doctors take personal charge, answering patients' phone or e-mail questions promptly. In emergencies, patients can show up at the office and see their doctors on short notice. 
 Such features add up to a model of primary care that proponents refer to as providing people with a ''medical home'' -- a base where doctors, staff and patients pull together as one big health-care family. Or at least that is the ideal. 
 ''It's the latest new, new thing -- testing whether medical homes can be a vehicle for pulling America upwards from the grossly inefficient swamp in which our health system is currently mired,'' said Dr. Arnold Milstein, a senior consultant at Mercer who is also member of the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, an independent Congressional agency. 
 The panel has recommended that Medicare expand its plans for a medical-home pilot project next year that is expected to pay primary-care doctors in eight states $30 to $40 a month extra for each person enrolled with a chronic illness.
 In Michigan, the auto industry has been a major force behind one of the largest medical-home projects yet devised. Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan, which has 4.7 million members, plans to spend $30 million this year to help primary-care doctors offer such services. About 4,900 primary-care doctors are participating, said Dr. Thomas Simmer, chief medical officer of Michigan Blue Cross.
 Advocates of the approach hope it will attract more doctors to primary care. Last year only 7 percent of medical school graduates chose family practice, a field with a median income of $150,000, according to the American Academy of Family Physicians. That compares with $406,000 for gastroenterologists and $433,00 for cardiac surgeons, as measured by the Medical Group Management Association. 
 The American Medical Association said that in its latest count, in 2006, there were slightly more than 251,000 practicing family physicians, general, practitioners, and internists in this country, compared with nearly 472,000 specialists. 
 ''The pipeline of primary-care doctors has been running dry for several years,'' said Dr. Barbara Starfield, a health policy expert at Johns Hopkins University. Many parts of the country do not meet the generally accepted standard of one primary-care doctor for every 1,000 to 2,000 people, Dr. Starfield said.
 The Philadelphia pilot project is sponsored by three of the area's largest insurers -- Independence Blue Cross, Aetna and Cigna -- as well as some local providers of Medicaid services, which together have agreed to spend $13 million on the program over the next three years. 
 Dr. Baron expects the project to add as much 15 percent to the annual revenue of his medical group. He declined to specify the practice's total gross income last year, but said that each of the five physicians earned less than the $177,000 national median for internists. 
 To participate in the Philadelphia experiment, doctors must arrange for their offices to keep in close communication with their entire rosters of patients. Dr. Baron's practice, besides the physicians, a business manager and clerical assistants, has added a patient educator, whom he said would cost $60,000 in salary plus $60,000 more for benefits and supporting technology. The group is also spending $25,000 for part-time services of a data analyst.
 Employers predict that better early care will reduce their health costs in the long run. ''We want to buy our care this way, we think it's the right thing to do,'' said Dr. Paul Grundy, I.B.M.'s director of health care technology and strategic initiatives.
 Despite the hopes riding on the pilot projects, some experts are skeptical. ''There is very little concrete rigorous evidence that the medical home will do all those wonderful things they want it to do,'' said Mark Pauly, a health policy economist at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. 
 Even executives at Aetna and Cigna are cautious about betting on a payoff from the Philadelphia project, which was orchestrated by Pennsylvania's Democratic Governor Edward G. Rendell and his office of health care reform. 
 It is uncertain whether there will be a direct return on the investment within a ''reasonable time horizon,'' said Dr. Don Liss, an Aetna medical director who is an internist himself. Still, Dr. Liss added, ''a reasonable body of evidence suggests that improving primary care as a foundation for health care will improve quality and access to care.'' 
 The Pennsylvania program will start expanding to other parts of the state this fall. It comes none too soon, in the view of Dr. Joseph Mambu, a family physician in Lower Gwynedd, a Philadelphia suburb. Trying to build a medical-home practice before the pilot project began, Dr. Mambu said he went into debt installing an electronic medical records system and establishing patient-friendly features like evening and Saturday office hours. 
 ''Last year, I hit the red ink because of all the technology,'' he said. ''Unless we get help from the insurance companies and the government, the system is going down the toilet.'' 
 But with the new medical-home money, Dr. Mambu said he expected to pay down his debts and start a patient wellness program. The insurance pilot project, he said, offers ''a ray of hope.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 8, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A chart on July 21 with the continuation of a front-page article about insurers' efforts to reduce overall medical costs by paying more money to primary care doctors misstated the budget of a program in New Jersey that is sponsored by Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield. It is $4.8 million, not $416,000.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Richard Baron, right, is paid extra to spend more time with patients like Robert Williamson. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRADLEY C. BROWER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A13) CHART: MORE OUNCES OF PREVENTION: Around the country, insurance companies are conducting experiments to test whether spending more initially on primary medical care can save significant money later by helping patients avoid catastrophic health problems. Here is a sampling of the programs. (Source: Insurance companies) (pg.A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (93%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (90%); INSURANCE (90%); FAMILY PRACTICE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); MEDICARE (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); MEDICAID (73%); STROKES (73%); DIABETES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2008



531 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1727 words

HEADLINE: Mideast Facing Difficult Choice, Crops Or Water

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
CAIRO -- Global food shortages have placed the Middle East and North Africa in a quandary, as they are forced to choose between growing more crops to feed an expanding population or preserving their already scant supply of water.
For decades nations in this region have drained aquifers, sucked the salt from seawater and diverted the mighty Nile to make the deserts bloom. But those projects were so costly and used so much water that it remained far more practical to import food than to produce it. Today, some countries import 90 percent or more of their staples.
Now, the worldwide food crisis is making many countries in this politically volatile region rethink that math.
The population of the region has more than quadrupled since 1950, to 364 million, and is expected to reach nearly 600 million by 2050. By that time, the amount of fresh water available for each person, already scarce, will be cut in half, and declining resources could inflame political tensions further. 
''The countries of the region are caught between the hammer of rising food prices and the anvil of steadily declining water availability per capita,'' Alan R. Richards, a professor of economics and environmental studies at the University of California, Santa Cruz, said via e-mail. ''There is no simple solution.''
Losing confidence in world markets, these nations are turning anew to expensive schemes to maintain their food supply.
Djibouti is growing rice in solar-powered greenhouses, fed by groundwater and cooled with seawater, in a project that produces what the World Bank economist Ruslan Yemtsov calls ''probably the most expensive rice on earth.''
Several oil-rich nations, including Saudi Arabia, have started searching for farmland in fertile but politically unstable countries like Pakistan and Sudan, with the goal of growing crops to be shipped home.
''These countries have the land and the water,'' said Hassan S. Sharaf Al Hussaini, an official in Bahrain's agriculture ministry. ''We have the money.''
In Egypt, where a shortage of subsidized bread led to rioting in April, government officials say they are looking into growing wheat on two million acres straddling the border with Sudan.
Economists and development experts say that nutritional self-sufficiency in this part of the world presents challenges that are not easily overcome. Saudi Arabia tapped aquifers to become self-sufficient in wheat production in the 1980s. By the early 1990s, the kingdom had become a major exporter. This year, however, the Saudis said they would phase out the program because it used too much water.
''You can bring in money and water and you can make the desert green until either the water runs out or the money,'' said Elie Elhadj, a Syrian-born author who wrote his Ph.D. dissertation on the topic.
Egypt, too, has for decades dreamed of converting huge swaths of desert into lush farmland. The most ambitious of these projects is in Toshka, a Sahara Desert oasis in a scorched lunar landscape of sand and rock outcroppings.
When the Toshka farm was started in 1997, the Egyptian president, Hosni Mubarak, compared its ambitions to building the pyramids, involving roughly 500,000 acres of farmland and tens of thousands of residents. But no one has moved there, and only 30,000 acres or so have been planted.
The farm's manager, Mohamed Nagi Mohamed, says the Sahara is perfect for farming, as long as there is plenty of fertilizer and water. For one thing, the bugs cannot handle the summer heat, so pesticides are not needed.
''You can grow anything on this land,'' he said, showing off fields of alfalfa and rows of tomatoes and grapes, shielded from the sun by gauzy white netting. ''It's a very nice project, but it needs a lot of money.''
Mr. Mubarak calls his country's growing population an ''urgent'' problem that has exacerbated the food crisis. The population grows about 1.7 percent annually, considerably slower than a generation ago but still fast enough that it is on pace to double by 2050.
Adding 1.3 million Egyptians each year to the 77 million squeezed into an inhabited area roughly the size of Taiwan is a daunting prospect for a country in which 20 percent of citizens already live in poverty.
One recent morning in the Cairo slum of Imbaba, people crammed in front of a weathered green bakery shack for their daily rations of subsidized bread, a pita-like loaf called baladi that sells for less than a penny, so cheap that some Egyptians feed it to their livestock.
The bakery shares the end of a dead-end street with a mountain of garbage, 25 feet by 5 feet, that looks as if it is moving because so many flies swarm over it.
''Most people are really suffering, but what can they do?'' asked Mohamed Faruk, a 38-year-old grocery worker who moonlights as a bus inspector, as he carried nine loaves of baladi in newspaper.
Awatef Mahmud, a 53-year-old mother of five who sat on a nearby stoop waiting for her bread to cool, said higher prices had led to dietary changes for her family. ''Instead of buying one kilo of meat every week, we buy a half a kilo,'' she said. ''People used to buy pasta to make for their kids. But now that it's four and a half pounds,'' she said, referring to the currency, ''they give them bread instead.''
Economists say that rather than seeking to become self-sufficient with food, countries in this region should grow crops for which they have a competitive advantage, like produce or flowers, which do not require much water and can be exported for top dollar.
For example, Doron Ovits, a confident 39-year-old with sunglasses pushed over his forehead and a deep tan, runs a 150-acre tomato and pepper empire in the Negev Desert of Israel. His plants, grown in greenhouses with elaborate trellises and then exported to Europe, are irrigated with treated sewer water that he says is so pure he has to add minerals back. The water is pumped through drip irrigation lines covered tightly with black plastic to prevent evaporation.
A pumping station outside each greenhouse is equipped with a computer that tracks how much water and fertilizer is used; Mr. Ovits keeps tabs from his desktop computer.
''With drip irrigation, you save money. It's more precise,'' he said. ''You can't run it like a peasant, a farmer. You have to run it like a businessman.''
Israel is as obsessed with water as Mr. Ovits is. It was there, in the 1950s, that an engineer invented modern drip irrigation, which saves water and fertilizer by feeding it, drop by drop, to a plant's roots. Since then, Israel has become the world's leader in maximizing agricultural output per drop of water, and many believe that it serves as a viable model for other countries in the Middle East and North Africa.
Already, Tunisia has reinvigorated its agriculture sector by adopting some of the desert farming advances pioneered in Israel, and Egypt's new desert farms now grow mostly water-sipping plants with drip irrigation.
The Israeli government strictly regulates how much water farmers can use and requires many of them to irrigate with treated sewer water, pumped to farms in purple pipes. It has also begun using a desalination plant to cleanse brackish water for irrigation.
''In the future, another 200 million cubic meters of marginal water are to be recycled, in addition to promoting the establishment of desalination plants,'' Shalom Simhon, Israel's agriculture minister, wrote via e-mail.
Still, four years of drought have created what Mr. Simhon calls ''a deep water crisis,'' forcing the country to cut farmers' quotas.
Egypt, at least, has the Nile. Under a 1959 treaty, the country is entitled to a disproportionate share of the river's water, a point that rankles some of its neighbors. It has built canals to bring Nile water to the Sinai Desert, to desert lands between Cairo and Alexandria and to the vast emptiness of Toshka.
For Saad Nassar, a top adviser in Egypt's ministry of agriculture and land reclamation, the country has little choice but to try to make the desert bloom, even in unlikely places like Toshka, which it says will eventually succeed: all of Egypt's farms and population are now crowded onto just 4 percent of its land.
''We don't have the luxury of choosing this or that,'' he said. ''We have to work on every acre that is cultivatable.''
Egypt is establishing an estimated 200,000 acres of farmland in the desert each year, even as it loses 60,000 acres of its best farmland to urbanization, said Richard Tutwiler, director of the Desert Development Center at the American University in Cairo. ''It's sand,'' he said, referring to the reclaimed desert land. ''It's not the world's most fertile soil.''
As Cairo's population has grown -- to an estimated 12 million today -- hastily constructed apartment buildings have sprouted among the fields. ''They sow apartment buildings instead of wheat,'' said Gideon Kruseman, a Dutch agriculture economist working with the government to improve farming there.
For more than 5,000 years, farmers have worked the land along the Nile and in the Nile Delta, the lotus-shaped plain north of Cairo where centuries of accumulated silt have produced a deep, rich layer of topsoil. They have endured drought, flood, locust and pestilence.
Now the scourge is development. For farmers like Magdy Abdel-Rahman, the new buildings not only ruin the rural tranquillity of his ancient fields, with the constant hammering and commotion, but they also reduce his yields.
''The shade is not good for the plants,'' said Mr. Abdel-Rahman, who farms corn and clover on a half-acre lot 20 miles from downtown Cairo.
Five miles farther out, Talaat Mohamed's three acres of sweet potatoes are squeezed between four-, five- and seven-story apartment buildings like a jigsaw puzzle. A building recently went up a dozen feet from his field, with steel bars jutting from the foundation and piles of gravel alongside.
Mr. Mohamed, 60, routinely turns down eager land speculators because, he says, he loves working outdoors. But he complains about all the time spent removing urban detritus from his field, which on this day included a maroon brassiere, soda cans, food wrappers, wads of indistinguishable plastic, a Signal toothpaste box and a black flip-flop.
''The Egyptians invented farming,'' he said, peering despairingly at a landscape of electric wires and buildings, traffic and trash. ''And this is what it has become.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers tended to a grape field on the Toshka farm in Egypt, one of the more ambitious efforts to convert desert into lush farmland. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
FARM TO MARKET: An Egyptian worker, left, carrying vegetables through a field outside Cairo. Above, produce filled an outdoor market in central Cairo. Economists say countries in the region should focus on growing produce or flowers, which do not require much water and can be exported for top dollar.
DAILY BREAD: A bakery in a poor Cairo neighborhood sells customers their rations of pita-like bread that costs less than a penny because of subsidies. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) CHART: ''Populations Are Expanding Fastest In Regions:'' Where it Is Most Difficult to Grow Food: The world's population is projected to grow to 9 billion before 2050. Proportionally, the countries in Northern Africa and the Middle East are among the fastest growing. But those are also among the world's driest regions, and by 2050, fresh water there will be twice as scarce. (Sources: United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division ''World Population Prospects: The 2006 Revision''
 ''Natural Earth'' base map by Tom Patterson)(A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (90%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); WHEAT FARMING (78%); RICE FARMING (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); FOOD PRICES (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); POLITICS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); WRITERS (60%); SOLAR ENERGY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EGYPT (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); NORTHERN AFRICA (93%); AFRICA (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); SUDAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%); DJIBOUTI (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); BAHRAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



532 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE FOOD CHAIN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1751 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST FACING DIFFICULT CHOICE, CROPS OR WATER

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
CAIRO -- Global food shortages have placed the Middle East and North Africa in a quandary, as they are forced to choose between growing more crops to feed an expanding population or preserving their already scant supply of water.
For decades nations in this region have drained aquifers, sucked the salt from seawater and diverted the mighty Nile to make the deserts bloom. But those projects were so costly and used so much water that it remained far more practical to import food than to produce it. Today, some countries import 90 percent or more of their staples.
Now, the worldwide food crisis is making many countries in this politically volatile region rethink that math.
The population of the region has more than quadrupled since 1950, to 364 million, and is expected to reach nearly 600 million by 2050. By that time, the amount of fresh water available for each person, already scarce, will be cut in half, and declining resources could inflame political tensions further. 
''The countries of the region are caught between the hammer of rising food prices and the anvil of steadily declining water availability per capita,'' Alan R. Richards, a professor of economics and environmental studies at the University of California, Santa Cruz, said via e-mail. ''There is no simple solution.''
Losing confidence in world markets, these nations are turning anew to expensive schemes to maintain their food supply.
Djibouti is growing rice in solar-powered greenhouses, fed by groundwater and cooled with seawater, in a project that produces what the World Bank economist Ruslan Yemtsov calls ''probably the most expensive rice on earth.''
Several oil-rich nations, including Saudi Arabia, have started searching for farmland in fertile but politically unstable countries like Pakistan and Sudan, with the goal of growing crops to be shipped home.
''These countries have the land and the water,'' said Hassan S. Sharaf Al Hussaini, an official in Bahrain's agriculture ministry. ''We have the money.''
In Egypt, where a shortage of subsidized bread led to rioting in April, government officials say they are looking into growing wheat on two million acres straddling the border with Sudan.
Economists and development experts say that nutritional self-sufficiency in this part of the world presents challenges that are not easily overcome. Saudi Arabia tapped aquifers to become self-sufficient in wheat production in the 1980s. By the early 1990s, the kingdom had become a major exporter. This year, however, the Saudis said they would phase out the program because it used too much water.
''You can bring in money and water and you can make the desert green until either the water runs out or the money,'' said Elie Elhadj, a Syrian-born author who wrote his Ph.D. dissertation on the topic.
Egypt, too, has for decades dreamed of converting huge swaths of desert into lush farmland. The most ambitious of these projects is in Toshka, a Sahara Desert oasis in a scorched lunar landscape of sand and rock outcroppings.
When the Toshka farm was started in 1997, the Egyptian president, Hosni Mubarak, compared its ambitions to building the pyramids, involving roughly 500,000 acres of farmland and tens of thousands of residents. But no one has moved there, and only 30,000 acres or so have been planted.
The farm's manager, Mohamed Nagi Mohamed, says the Sahara is perfect for farming, as long as there is plenty of fertilizer and water. For one thing, the bugs cannot handle the summer heat, so pesticides are not needed.
''You can grow anything on this land,'' he said, showing off fields of alfalfa and rows of tomatoes and grapes, shielded from the sun by gauzy white netting. ''It's a very nice project, but it needs a lot of money.''
Mr. Mubarak calls his country's growing population an ''urgent'' problem that has exacerbated the food crisis. The population grows about 1.7 percent annually, considerably slower than a generation ago but still fast enough that it is on pace to double by 2050.
Adding 1.3 million Egyptians each year to the 77 million squeezed into an inhabited area roughly the size of Taiwan is a daunting prospect for a country in which 20 percent of citizens already live in poverty.
One recent morning in the Cairo slum of Imbaba, people crammed in front of a weathered green bakery shack for their daily rations of subsidized bread, a pita-like loaf called baladi that sells for less than a penny, so cheap that some Egyptians feed it to their livestock.
The bakery shares the end of a dead-end street with a mountain of garbage, 25 feet by 5 feet, that looks as if it is moving because so many flies swarm over it.
''Most people are really suffering, but what can they do?'' asked Mohamed Faruk, a 38-year-old grocery worker who moonlights as a bus inspector, as he carried nine loaves of baladi in newspaper.
Awatef Mahmud, a 53-year-old mother of five who sat on a nearby stoop waiting for her bread to cool, said higher prices had led to dietary changes for her family. ''Instead of buying one kilo of meat every week, we buy a half a kilo,'' she said. ''People used to buy pasta to make for their kids. But now that it's four and a half pounds,'' she said, referring to the currency, ''they give them bread instead.''
Economists say that rather than seeking to become self-sufficient with food, countries in this region should grow crops for which they have a competitive advantage, like produce or flowers, which do not require much water and can be exported for top dollar.
For example, Doron Ovits, a confident 39-year-old with sunglasses pushed over his forehead and a deep tan, runs a 150-acre tomato and pepper empire in the Negev Desert of Israel. His plants, grown in greenhouses with elaborate trellises and then exported to Europe, are irrigated with treated sewer water that he says is so pure he has to add minerals back. The water is pumped through drip irrigation lines covered tightly with black plastic to prevent evaporation.
A pumping station outside each greenhouse is equipped with a computer that tracks how much water and fertilizer is used; Mr. Ovits keeps tabs from his desktop computer.
''With drip irrigation, you save money. It's more precise,'' he said. ''You can't run it like a peasant, a farmer. You have to run it like a businessman.''
Israel is as obsessed with water as Mr. Ovits is. It was there, in the 1950s, that an engineer invented modern drip irrigation, which saves water and fertilizer by feeding it, drop by drop, to a plant's roots. Since then, Israel has become the world's leader in maximizing agricultural output per drop of water, and many believe that it serves as a viable model for other countries in the Middle East and North Africa.
Already, Tunisia has reinvigorated its agriculture sector by adopting some of the desert farming advances pioneered in Israel, and Egypt's new desert farms now grow mostly water-sipping plants with drip irrigation.
The Israeli government strictly regulates how much water farmers can use and requires many of them to irrigate with treated sewer water, pumped to farms in purple pipes. It has also begun using a desalination plant to cleanse brackish water for irrigation.
''In the future, another 200 million cubic meters of marginal water are to be recycled, in addition to promoting the establishment of desalination plants,'' Shalom Simhon, Israel's agriculture minister, wrote via e-mail.
Still, four years of drought have created what Mr. Simhon calls ''a deep water crisis,'' forcing the country to cut farmers' quotas.
Egypt, at least, has the Nile. Under a 1959 treaty, the country is entitled to a disproportionate share of the river's water, a point that rankles some of its neighbors. It has built canals to bring Nile water to the Sinai Desert, to desert lands between Cairo and Alexandria and to the vast emptiness of Toshka.
For Saad Nassar, a top adviser in Egypt's ministry of agriculture and land reclamation, the country has little choice but to try to make the desert bloom, even in unlikely places like Toshka, which it says will eventually succeed: all of Egypt's farms and population are now crowded onto just 4 percent of its land.
''We don't have the luxury of choosing this or that,'' he said. ''We have to work on every acre that is cultivatable.''
Egypt is establishing an estimated 200,000 acres of farmland in the desert each year, even as it loses 60,000 acres of its best farmland to urbanization, said Richard Tutwiler, director of the Desert Development Center at the American University in Cairo. ''It's sand,'' he said, referring to the reclaimed desert land. ''It's not the world's most fertile soil.''
As Cairo's population has grown -- to an estimated 12 million today -- hastily constructed apartment buildings have sprouted among the fields. ''They sow apartment buildings instead of wheat,'' said Gideon Kruseman, a Dutch agriculture economist working with the government to improve farming there.
For more than 5,000 years, farmers have worked the land along the Nile and in the Nile Delta, the lotus-shaped plain north of Cairo where centuries of accumulated silt have produced a deep, rich layer of topsoil. They have endured drought, flood, locust and pestilence.
Now the scourge is development. For farmers like Magdy Abdel-Rahman, the new buildings not only ruin the rural tranquillity of his ancient fields, with the constant hammering and commotion, but they also reduce his yields.
''The shade is not good for the plants,'' said Mr. Abdel-Rahman, who farms corn and clover on a half-acre lot 20 miles from downtown Cairo.
Five miles farther out, Talaat Mohamed's three acres of sweet potatoes are squeezed between four-, five- and seven-story apartment buildings like a jigsaw puzzle. A building recently went up a dozen feet from his field, with steel bars jutting from the foundation and piles of gravel alongside.
Mr. Mohamed, 60, routinely turns down eager land speculators because, he says, he loves working outdoors. But he complains about all the time spent removing urban detritus from his field, which on this day included a maroon brassiere, soda cans, food wrappers, wads of indistinguishable plastic, a Signal toothpaste box and a black flip-flop.
''The Egyptians invented farming,'' he said, peering despairingly at a landscape of electric wires and buildings, traffic and trash. ''And this is what it has become.''
THE FOOD CHAIN
Making the Desert Bloom
Articles in this series are examining the growing demands on, and changes in, the world's production of food.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers tended to a grape field on the Toshka farm in Egypt, one of the more ambitious efforts to convert desert into lush farmland. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
FARM TO MARKET: An Egyptian worker, left, carrying vegetables through a field outside Cairo. Above, produce filled an outdoor market in central Cairo. Economists say countries in the region should focus on growing produce or flowers, which do not require much water and can be exported for top dollar.
DAILY BREAD: A bakery in a poor Cairo neighborhood sells customers their rations of pita-like bread that costs less than a penny because of subsidies. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) CHART: ''Populations Are Expanding Fastest In Regions:'' Where it Is Most Difficult to Grow Food: The world's population is projected to grow to 9 billion before 2050. Proportionally, the countries in Northern Africa and the Middle East are among the fastest growing. But those are also among the world's driest regions, and by 2050, fresh water there will be twice as scarce. (Sources: United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division ''World Population Prospects: The 2006 Revision''
 ''Natural Earth'' base map by Tom Patterson)(A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (90%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); WHEAT FARMING (78%); RICE FARMING (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); FOOD PRICES (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); POLITICS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); WRITERS (60%); SOLAR ENERGY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EGYPT (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); NORTHERN AFRICA (93%); AFRICA (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); SUDAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%); DJIBOUTI (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); BAHRAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2010



533 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: Trouble at Fannie and Freddie Stirs Concern Abroad

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS; Julia Werdigier contributed reporting.

 BODY:
For more than a decade, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the housing giants that make the American mortgage market run, have attracted overseas investors with a simple pitch: the securities they issue are just as good as the United States government's, and they usually pay better.
The marketing plan worked. About one-fifth of securities issued by Fannie, Freddie and a handful of much smaller quasi-governmental agencies, some $1.5 trillion worth, were held by foreign investors at the end of March. One out of 10 American mortgages is, in effect, in the hands of institutions and governments outside the United States.
Now that the two companies are at risk, how their rescue is handled will ultimately test the world's faith in American markets. It could also influence the level of interest rates and weigh on the strength of the dollar for years to come, analysts say.
''No less than the international perception of the credit quality of the U.S. government is at stake,'' said Richard Hofmann, an analyst with CreditSights, an independent research house with offices in London and New York. 
Also at stake is Americans' future ability to gain access to credit. If foreign companies and governments abandon United States investments, home, auto and credit card loans will be much more difficult to come by.
That helps explain why Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. is pressing American lawmakers for the authority to inject unspecified billions in cash into either company or both. The ''blank check'' nature of his request has raised concerns on Capitol Hill, but Mr. Paulson is betting that Congress is even more fearful of the consequences of doing nothing to rescue Fannie and Freddie.
On Sunday, in an appearance on the television program ''Face the Nation,'' Mr. Paulson said he was ''very optimistic that we're going to get what we need from Congress.''
''Congress understands how important these institutions are,'' Mr. Paulson said.
Asian institutions and investors hold some $800 billion in securities issued by Fannie and Freddie, the bulk of that in China and Japan. China held $376 billion and Japan $228 billion as of June 2007, the most recent country-specific Treasury figures.
In Europe, roughly $39 billion in Fannie and Freddie debt is held in Luxembourg and $33 billion more in Belgium, countries that are home to large investment management firms. Investors in Britain hold $28 billion, and Russian buyers hold $75 billion. Sovereign wealth funds in the Middle East are also believed to be big investors in Fannie and Freddie debt.
The trillions in securities issued by Fannie and Freddie and backed by American mortgages were never explicitly guaranteed by the United States government, but foreign and domestic investors alike have always believed, because of the companies' integral role in the housing market and their marketing pitch, that the guarantee would be backed up if it were tested.
As the United States government's debt, and the corresponding amount of Treasury securities, shrank in the late 1990s, foreign investors with currency reserves needed a safe alternative to park their cash. Fannie and Freddie stepped up their overseas marketing efforts and, with the help of Wall Street banks, sold billions of dollars in securities overseas.
Asian banks and insurers bought Fannie's and Freddie's paper because it gave a little more yield than a straight Treasury note -- ''the same risk at a better price,'' said Deborah Schuler, an analyst with Moody's Investors Service in Singapore.
Investment managers at Asian banks and central governments are ''very comfortable with the idea of implied government support'' because it is so prevalent in Asia, Ms. Schuler said.
Still, this week's Congressional debate on the issue ''is going to worry people,'' Ms. Schuler said, though she, like most analysts, is confident that Washington will deliver, just as it has in past financial crises like the savings and loan industry bailout of the late 1980s and early 1990s.
Because America's relations with a host of countries are intricately tied to Fannie and Freddie, the only realistic option open to lawmakers may be to hand the Treasury Department that blank check, analysts say.
The two housing agencies have always been fierce competitors, and they made no exception in their expansion into international markets. Top executives wooed governments, banks and insurance companies in Asia and Europe, and lent executives to help foreign governments, including Russia and Hong Kong, set up their own American-style mortgage markets.
Both companies often compared their product to United States Treasuries when they talked to international investors, and adjusted the way that bonds matured and were priced so they looked and acted more like Treasury bonds.
In an interview with a London financial trade paper in 1999, Jerome T. Lienhard, Freddie Mac's senior vice president of investment funding, said, ''Investors that make the transition from U.S. Treasuries to our securities will be pleased with the performance.'' Freddie Mac's program is ''designed to mirror that already used by the United States government,'' he said.
The Treasury will not comment on Fannie and Freddie's international marketing pitches, but in the past it has tried to rein in the two institutions.
In March 2000, Gary Gensler, then Treasury under secretary, proposed more oversight of Fannie and Freddie, testifying to Congress that the two agencies ''receive no funds from the federal government, and the government does not guarantee their securities.''
The companies ''have been promoting their debt securities as an alternative market benchmark'' to Treasuries, he noted, particularly as the amount of Treasuries issued by the government shrank with the deficit. Mr. Gensler's comments roiled mortgage markets, sending prices down sharply on traded Fannie- and Freddie-backed securities and on both companies' stock. Ultimately, the controls he proposed were softened.
The bulk of investments related to Fannie and Freddie are in the form of mortgage-backed securities, often called agency securities or agency paper. This agency paper is considered of much higher quality than securities backed by subprime loans because Fannie and Freddie generally lend to borrowers with good credit histories and require higher down payments.
Prices on senior Fannie and Freddie securities, the highest quality, have not changed significantly since the end of last year, even as the two companies' stock prices have plummeted, Moody's noted. As of June 30, 2008, prices on a typical Fannie or Freddie security maturing in 10 years were off only about 2 percent from December 2007.
Questions about Fannie and Freddie have prompted individual institutions and governments in Asia and Europe to specify their exposure in recent days, but so far international concern has been limited. Ingo Buse, a spokesman for Zurich Financial Services, Switzerland's largest insurer, said it held $8.3 billion in mortgage securities backed by Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae, and felt ''comfortable with our position and asset allocation.''
Swiss Reinsurance, Switzerland's largest reinsurer, said on Wednesday that it held $9.6 billion of corporate debt from Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae and $12 billion in mortgage securities backed by the two companies. Swiss Re's holding of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae shares is minimal, it said.
Hannover Re, Germany's second-largest reinsurer after Munich Re, said it held 125 million euros, or $199 million, in securities issued by Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. ''We are not worried about the exposure,'' said Stefan Schulz, a spokesman for the company, ''because we expect the U.S. government to step in if there is any problem.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Henry Paulson, the Treasury secretary, left, and Ben Bernanke, head of the Federal Reserve, speak to a Senate panel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(C2) CHART: In the Hands of Foreign Countries: The amount of quasi-governmental, non-Treasury securities, including those of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, held by foreign countries tripled to $1.5 trillion in 2008, from $504 billion in 2001. The following nine countries hold just over half the total amount. (Sources: U.S. Treasury
CLSA Group
Japan Ministry for Financial Services
Taiwan Financial Supervisory Commission
 South Korea Financial Supervisory Service) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); NEW ISSUES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MARKETING PLAN (72%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (89%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (93%); CHINA (92%); TAIWAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LUXEMBOURG (71%); BELGIUM (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



534 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1611 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Set To Embrace Plan to Give Student Loans

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson plans on Monday to embrace one of the central recommendations of a report highly critical of the state's higher education system, asking the Legislature to create a low-cost student loan program to make New York more competitive with other states.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Paterson, Marissa Shorenstein, said that ''hundreds of thousands of students would be eligible for low-interest loans,'' and that the administration planned to introduce legislation for the program in next year's budget. She declined to provide any further details.
The report, scheduled to be released on Monday by the New York State Commission on Higher Education, said New York was one of the few states lacking such a program. One commission member estimated that students here typically paid 9 percent to 12 percent interest while those in Texas paid 6 percent.
There are currently $2 billion dollars in private loans, which can be more expensive than government-subsidized loans, given to students attending the 1,000-plus public and private institutions of higher education in New York. 
Establishing a low-cost loan program is one of about 10 major recommendations in the commission's final report, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times. It also proposed an infusion of $3 billion for research, the hiring of 2,000 new teachers and significant deregulation to make it much easier for individual colleges and universities to raise tuition.
The commission, appointed by former Gov. Eliot Spitzer in May 2007, expressed ''grave concerns'' that years of insufficient funding had eroded the quality of the State University of New York and the City University of New York, citing, for example, a backlog of $5 billion in critical maintenance projects at the 87 campuses that make up the two systems.
''While making progress on many fronts, they face a chronic problem,'' states the 105-page report, the result of more than a year of study by a 50-person team of lawmakers, academics and union representatives. ''Too little revenue, too little investment and too much regulation.''
The final report mainly expands on recommendations made in a preliminary report released in December, but comes in a starkly different economic and political climate.
Given the difficult fiscal situation facing the state -- with tax revenues falling as the financial industry continues to be hammered -- even some members of the commission admitted privately last week that it was unlikely that lawmakers in Albany would support all the initiatives, many of which require legislation and money.
But the report cast the importance of restructuring and investment in urgent tones, raising concerns about New York's continued preeminence nationally and its ability to compete globally.
''In the last decade, Jiangsu Province in China has built over 50 universities, enrolling over 700,000 students,'' the report says. ''This is but one example of an old script: governments raising the quality of life of their citizens by investing in higher education. But there is a new version to this old script: The competition is global and it is intense.''
Mr. Spitzer was widely seen as a champion of higher education, but since his resignation, many on the commission and throughout New York's higher education orbit have expressed concern about whether Mr. Paterson, who was Mr. Spitzer's lieutenant governor, will embrace the cause.
''Governor Paterson was in some early meetings where we received our charge,'' said Hunter R. Rawlings III, chairman of the commission and president emeritus of Cornell University. ''The question is how much of a priority he is going to make this in a tough fiscal year.''
In a statement about the report, Governor Paterson said that his administration ''is deeply committed to ensuring that we provide the best education services to our citizens.''
''We will begin to look for ways to finance some of these recommendations which require state funding,'' the statement said, ''as well as begin to implement many of the recommendations that do not require funding.''
When Mr. Spitzer was first elected, he proposed establishing a $4 billion endowment for the public colleges and universities, taking a page from the Ivy League schools where he was educated. He wanted to pay for it using money from the state lottery, a controversial proposal that ultimately brought discussion of the endowment to a stalemate.
There is no mention of the lottery in the commission's final report, which generally does not address financing for the initiatives.
Some of the report's recommendations require legislation, others could be initiated through executive action and a few could be enacted by the college and university leadership.
But even the simplest of the measures could be complicated by the vast scope and entrenched bureaucracies of the state higher education systems. The State University of New York, the largest public university system in the country, has 64 campuses with some 400,000 students. The City University of New York, the largest urban college network in the country, has more than 200,000 students on 23 campuses. And the private colleges and universities educate 460,000 students on 150 campuses.
With so many institutions spread across the state, it is no surprise that there is fierce competition for resources, as nearly every politician in Albany angles to get a slice of the funding pie for the school in their own backyard.
As the commission debated the recommendations during the past year, some members suggested that the state focus its attention on a small number of institutions, creating flagship campuses that would draw the best and the brightest in specific areas of research and innovation, similar to the way the Berkeley and Los Angeles campuses stand out among the University of California system schools. But that idea met resistance.
''New York is not California,'' said Senator Kenneth P. LaValle, a commission member and the Republican chairman of the Senate's Higher Education Committee, whose Long Island district includes SUNY's Stony Brook campus among several other colleges. ''Some people here in New York just don't want to accept the fact that we have many existing flagship campuses.'' Another idea that was floated but ultimately left out of the report was to forgive student loans for people who stay and work in New York for 10 years after graduation.
There was wide agreement, however, that affordability for students was a central challenge facing all the schools.
Through its Tuition Assistance Program, the state spent $862 million to provide grants to 323,290 low-income students attending both public and private schools in 2006. The commission praised the program but did not suggest expanding it, saying it failed to meet the needs of part-time students and those who are financially independent.
The report noted the continuing stark disparities in educational achievement among demographic groups.
For instance, about 18 percent of the state's Hispanics have college degrees, compared to 45 percent of whites.
One of the more sweeping recommendations calls for revamping the way the schools are financed by creating a compact that would increase and stabilize revenues in a number of ways.
The critical element would be legislative changes to the way tuition is set. Instead of the current system, in which legislative action is required to raise tuition -- often leading to bitter battles that put years between increases -- the compact would allow the schools themselves to make what the report called modest and predictable annual tuition increases, most likely from 2.5 percent to 4 percent a year. It also would let individual schools ''charge differential tuition rates by program and by campus, with the revenues generated returned to the campuses for investment.''
In addition, under the proposed compact, the state would make far more significant efforts to engage philanthropies and businesses in higher education, though the state would continue to pay 100 percent of costs like labor and maintenance.
In the past, efforts to loosen up the state regulations on tuition have met stiff opposition in Albany. On Sunday, Ms. Shorenstein said the administration would ''embrace regulatory relief for SUNY and CUNY.''
Officials at SUNY and CUNY have long called for more investment in staffing and welcomed the commission's recommendation to hire 2,000 new professors, including 250 at the top of their fields, at an increased cost to the state of about $60 million annually. There are more than 17,000 faculty members at SUNY's four-year schools, 60 percent of them full-time, and roughly 13,000 at its community colleges, 33 percent full-time. CUNY has 6,100 full-time faculty members.
The other major expense would be the 10-year research program, which would distribute $300 million annually to public and private institutions across the state, with individual projects selected by a panel of prominent academics through a process of peer review.
''I think the report laid out a fairly ambitious agenda for how we can make both public and private better,'' said Abraham M. Lackman, a commission member and president of the Commission on Independent Colleges and Universities, which advocates for 100 of the state's private institutions.
Academic research is a central focus of the report, which argues that economic development in areas with research institutions outpaces that in other parts of the state.
''These are rich assets, thanks to visionary leadership of the past,'' the report states. ''But we should also be worried. There is troubling evidence that the state has slipped in stature over the last 20 years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Former Gov. Eliot Spitzer, top, appointed the education commission. Senator Kenneth P. LaValle is a member.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TUITION FEES (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (67%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%); ELIOT SPITZER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); JIANGSU, CHINA (58%); EAST CHINA (50%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



535 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: A New (and Unlikely) Tell-All

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: CARMEL-BY-THE-SEA, Calif. 

 BODY:
Jason K. Burnett, Washington's environmental whistle-blower du jour, is an example of a once rare, now almost common, phenomenon: a political appointee willing to tell much of what he knows of the inner workings of the formerly opaque Bush administration.
 Mr. Burnett's full pitcher of tales about the administration's inner turmoil over air pollution regulation in general and climate change in particular has been poured deliberately, glass by glass, for a thirsty partisan crowd. More will be offered Tuesday when he appears before the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. 
 Mr. Burnett's increasingly public dealings with Democratic committee chairmen in Congress have brought unwelcome attention to the administration's deliberations on climate change policy. In particular, Mr. Burnett has suggested that the Environmental Protection Agency's views have been overridden by others in the administration doing industry's bidding. 
 What remains curious is how Mr. Burnett, a contributor to Democratic candidates -- including Senator Barack Obama, the presumptive presidential nominee -- and a policy specialist who counts some of the wealth of Silicon Valley's Packard family as his inheritance -- came to be hired at the agency four years ago at the age of 27 as an adviser. 
 Andrew Wheeler, staff director for the Republican minority on the public works committee, said in an e-mail message Monday: ''Burnett has personally donated over $100,000 to Democratic candidates, and his family's foundation has contributed hundreds of thousands to Democratic causes. The real question is not why Burnett resigned from the Bush administration, but rather why he sought to work there in the first place.''
 Still, there is no question he had a privileged perch in the eras of both Stephen L. Johnson and his predecessor, Michael O. Leavitt, as administrators of the E.P.A. One early assignment was to develop the final architecture of the regulation on mercury that was more flexible in allowing some emissions than environmentalists sought. The courts have since struck down the rule. 
 There is no doubt that in his self-assurance, Mr. Burnett came across like a newly minted West Point-trained officer bursting with theoretical knowledge, which irritated career employees at the E.P.A. and his peers in other parts of government.
 Mr. Burnett was born 31 years ago, the son of two marine biologists. His father, Robin Burnett, wrote a Ph.D. thesis in the 1970s that had helped pinpoint the location and origin of most of the DDT in California ecosystems. His mother, Nancy Packard Burnett, was a founder of the Monterey Bay Aquarium; both he and his mother are on the board of the David and Lucile Packard Foundation. 
 His undergraduate degree at Stanford University in 1999 was in economics; his master's degree there was in earth sciences.
 He caught the attention of the Bush team when he moved from California to Washington and wrote about unintended consequences of regulation. His mentor was Robert Hahn, who is director of the Reg-Markets Center (formerly the AEI-Brookings Joint Center for Regulatory Studies) in Washington, which is run by the conservative American Enterprise Institute and the liberal Brookings Institution. 
 His policy prescriptions seemed to trump his Democratic origins. ''I did not sense any ideology from him whatever,'' said Phillip Angell, a former senior adviser to Mr. Leavitt. 
 Frank O'Donnell, director of Clean Air Watch, an environmental group, was less impressed. ''He seemed like an arrogant hotshot,'' Mr. O'Donnell said.
 Mr. Burnett himself said of his early days at the agency, ''I think I probably came in with my own views, and I should have spent more time listening.'' 
 Several career employees at the E.P.A. who had worked with Mr. Burnett did not respond to requests for comment. 
 After the mercury rule was made final, Mr. Burnett helped direct an effort with greater potential cost for industry: setting a new standard for fine soot particles implicated in thousands of premature deaths. The final standard ignored the recommendations by 20 of 22 scientists advising the environmental agency. It made no change in the more consequential of the two standards. Shortly thereafter, in January 2007, Mr. Burnett quit. He says now he opposed both the policy and the process. 
 Why, then, did he return a year ago to work on climate-change regulations? In an interview in his home here over the weekend, he paused a full 10 seconds before saying, ''Clearly, I knew it was going to be a challenge, but it was an amazing opportunity to help shape national policy on that important issue.'' 
 But as the months passed, the imperative of responding to the Supreme Court's mandate requiring the E.P.A. to make a decision about heat-trapping gases evaporated, Mr. Burnett said, replaced by hostility from nonagency officials, particularly Vice President Dick Cheney's aide F. Chase Hutto, who seemed to take industry's perspective. 
 Megan Mitchell, a spokeswoman for the vice president's office, called this assertion ''ridiculous.''
 Mr. Burnett also said Jeffrey A. Rosen, the general counsel of the Office of Management and Budget, asked three times for separate memorandums describing why carbon dioxide molecules emitted from vehicles (already likely to be subject to regulation) could not be distinguished from CO2 molecules emitted from power-plant smokestacks (whose regulation was opposed by powerful segments of the industry and the administration).
 Tony Fratto, a spokesman for the White House, said Monday, ''There was no dispute within the administration about the nature of greenhouse gases coming from emissions from any sources.''
 In general, Mr. Fratto added, ''every policy person has not just a right but an obligation to bring out questions about a proposed regulation.'' 
 But Mr. Burnett said, ''The process was absurd.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 23, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about Jason K. Burnett, a former official at the Environmental Protection Agency who has spoken publicly about turmoil at the agency, misspelled, in some copies, part of the name of a foundation on whose board he serves. It is the David and Lucile Packard Foundation, not Lucille. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A lot of people in Washington want to hear what Jason K. Burnett has to say. Mr. Burnett in his new home in Carmel, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THEO RIGBY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (76%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); AIR POLLUTION (71%); CHARITIES (69%); FOUNDATIONS (69%); FISHES (68%); BIOLOGY (63%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); MARINE BIOLOGY (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL O LEAVITT (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



536 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: TiVo and Amazon Team Up

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
TiVo, the Silicon Valley company that introduced millions to the joy of skipping television commercials, is trying to crack a decades-old media dream. It wants to turn the television remote control into a tool for buying the products being advertised and promoted on commercials and talk shows.
 The company, based in Alviso, Calif., will introduce a ''product purchase'' feature on Tuesday in partnership with the Internet retailer Amazon.com. Owners of TiVo video recorders will see, in TiVo's various onscreen menus, links to buy products like CDs, DVDs and books that guests are promoting on talk shows like ''The Oprah Winfrey Show,'' ''The Late Show With David Letterman'' and ''The Daily Show.'' 
 In the months ahead, TiVo plans to begin offering this feature to advertisers and programmers, so that the chance to buy products and have them delivered will be presented to viewers during commercials and even alongside product placements during live shows.
 The move highlights TiVo's attempt to shift from being a creator of set-top boxes, competing with copycat devices, to being an advertising innovator that is trying to develop advertising technologies for the television industry. 
 ''Just a few years ago, we were viewed with great paranoia as the disruptor,'' said Thomas S. Rogers, chief executive of TiVo. ''Our goal now is to work with the media industry to come up with ways to resist the downward pressure of less advertising viewing and create a way for advertising on TV to become more effective, more engaging and closer to the sale.''
 ''What we are trying to do is to create all the underpinnings of a future business model for television,'' he said.
 For years, interactive advertising on television has been characterized by risky experiments and high-profile failures. Most famously, Time Warner took a shot at the concept with its pioneering but expensive Qube box trial in Ohio in the late 1970s.
 One problem with all previous experiments in this area, Mr. Rogers said, was that buying a product through the television took the viewer out of the experience they had actually settled in for -- watching a program.
 But on TiVo, if a viewer chooses to buy an advertised item during a broadcast, TiVo records the rest of the program so the viewer can easily return to it after the purchase. TiVo users will also be able to save their intended purchases in their Amazon account and return to the site later to complete the transaction. 
 TiVo and Amazon, based in Seattle, have an existing relationship. Since last year, owners of broadband-connected TiVos have been able to download movies and televisions shows to their set-top boxes from Amazon's digital video store, now called Amazon Video on Demand. The two companies have not disclosed the financial details of their newest deal, but in general Amazon's affiliates get a 15 percent slice of a sale when a customer they referred makes a purchase on the site.
 But the media world may not be so quick to jump at TiVo's new buy-it-now feature. More than a decade after it altered the fundamental experience of watching television, TiVo's base of users remains relatively small. 
 TiVo's purchase feature ''is a harbinger of what television ultimately should become,'' said Timothy Hanlon, senior vice president for Denuo, the media futures division of the Publicis Groupe. ''But TiVo is only in around four million plus homes. From a national advertising perspective, if it doesn't get beyond that base it remains nothing more than a curiosity.''
 TiVo knows that, which is why the company is trying to branch out of the set-top box business and into building software that it can license to much larger media companies. For the last three years, TiVo has been working with the cable operators Comcast and Cox to put its user-friendly software in their set-top boxes. Comcast has introduced its service in Boston, while Cox is still holding trials.
 Mr. Rogers also said TiVo's deal with Comcast includes a provision for TiVo to provide its interactive ad technology for the cable company's other, non-TiVo digital video recorders. Though Mr. Rogers says ''this is not our focus today,'' becoming a broker for the next generation of interactive ads may be TiVo's ultimate goal.
 Possible customers for its interactive ad technology include the cable and satellite companies and their consortiums, like Project Canoe, a joint effort by six cable operators to create a technology platform to sell customized and interactive ads.
 To publicize TiVo's efforts at creating this new advertising model for television, Mr. Rogers is not above sowing a little fear about some of the grim trends in the business, which TiVo itself helped to unleash.
 As DVRs get more popular, ''the majority of commercials in home will be fast-forwarded through,'' he said. ''It is critical that there be a form of advertising and a transactional solution that underpins the DVR, or the economics of television are going to be substantially undermined.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TiVo owners will see prompts to buy products on TV shows. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); REMOTE CONTROL DEVICES (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); BROADBAND (87%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (87%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (79%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (79%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (79%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); PRODUCT PLACEMENT (78%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (77%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); RETAILERS (76%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (76%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (74%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (71%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (85%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (85%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (85%)

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (58%); OPRAH WINFREY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



537 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: A Product's Place Is on the Set

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Name-brand products make regular appearances on television shows, where they are typically written into a drama, comedy or reality program. ''American Idol'' viewers, for example, have come to expect to see a Coke cup in front of Simon Cowell as he dresses down contestants.
 But TV news? 
 In recent weeks, anchors on the Fox affiliate in Las Vegas, KVVU, sit with cups of McDonald's iced coffee on their desks during the news-and-lifestyle portion of their morning show. The anchors rarely touch the cups.
 Executives at the station, one of 12 owned by Meredith Corporation, say the six-month promotion is meant to shore up advertising revenue and, as they told the news staff, will not influence content. 
 ''There was a healthy dose of skepticism, and I'm pleased there was -- it means they're being journalists,'' said Adam P. Bradshaw, news director of KVVU. The product placement was first reported Monday in The Las Vegas Sun.
 The arrangement does raise questions about potential conflicts between the intended message and news content. The ad agency that arranged the promotion said the coffee cups would most likely be whisked away if KVVU chooses to report a negative story about McDonald's. 
 ''If there were a story going up, let's say, God forbid, about a McDonald's food illness outbreak or something negative about McDonald's, I would expect that the station would absolutely give us the opportunity to pull our product off set,'' said Brent Williams, account supervisor at Karsh/Hagan, the advertising agency that arranged the deal between McDonald's and KVVU. 
 If that did not happen, ''it might lead to the termination of an agreement'' to appear on the show, he said. KVVU, for its part, said it would continue to report truthfully and honestly about McDonald's. Mr. Bradshaw said the station would remove the cups, just as it would remove spot advertising from a newscast for any advertiser who is the subject of a negative report.
 With the economy in rough shape and advertisers funneling more dollars to the Internet, the television industry is trying to increase its revenues. Neither the agency nor KVVU would reveal the price of the six-month deal. 
 Other stations owned by Meredith -- including WFSB, the CBS affiliate in Hartford, Conn., and WGCL, the CBS affiliate in Atlanta -- are also accepting product placements on their morning shows. 
 Arrangements like these are anathema to journalists and media watchdogs. And the broader issue of product placements is under scrutiny at the Federal Communications Commission, which is weighing tighter rules for how sponsorships on TV shows are disclosed.
 ''Expanding this into news raises very troubling questions,'' said Harold Feld, senior vice president for the Media Access Project, a consumer advocacy group. ''Viewers, when they see news programs, are expecting to see things that reflect the marriage of the things reported, and do not look in the credits of these programs to see if there's some small disclaimer that people are being paid for product placements.''
 The three major network morning shows, ABC's ''Good Morning America,'' CBS's ''The Early Show,'' and NBC's ''Today'' do not accept fees in exchange for product placement, representatives of the shows said Monday.
 ''It is against CBS News's standards to accept money in exchange for product placement on any broadcast, and we do not do so,'' Kelli Halyard, a CBS spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mail message. 
 Paul Karpowicz, the president of Meredith Broadcasting Group, said that product placements on his stations were limited to morning news shows.
 ''If something happens and we have to report something about McDonald's, we'll report it,'' said Mr. Bradshaw of KVVU. ''I would not put product placement into any of my traditional hard newscasts. I would not run it in my 5 p.m. or my 10 p.m.''
 He said he was not allowing the McDonald's cups on the so-called straight news portion of the morning report, which is before 7 a.m., but on a lighter, news-and-lifestyle show that goes from 7 to 9 a.m. 
 McDonald's has also placed products on morning news shows on WFLD in Chicago, which is owned and operated by Fox; on KCPQ in Seattle, a Fox affiliate owned by the Tribune Company; and on Univision 41 in New York City, said Danya Proud, a McDonald's spokeswoman. 
 Ms. Proud said the promotion was regional rather than national in scope. ''This is a way for us to allow our customers to discover our products,'' she said. Morning shows, she said, are a natural place to promote coffee drinks. 
 But what if the reporters sitting in front of McDonald's products are doing segments about, say, gang violence or outbreaks of tainted food?
 ''That's something we've taken into account,'' said Mr. Williams of Karsh/Hagan, part of the TBWA Worldwide unit of Omnicom Group.
 ''I'm kind of relying, my client is relying, on just the inner workings of that station,'' he said. ''Not that editorial would ever give a heads-up to sales or be expected to give a heads-up to sales, but these are professionals. They do realize that some businesses' brands, some businesses' reputations, could be at stake in terms of how commerce and news are interacting here.''
 In 2005, the F.C.C. issued a reminder to broadcasters that they must disclose when they use certain video news releases provided by corporations. The inquiry that the agency opened in June is focused on entertainment shows rather than news, but could easily be broadened.
 In June, the Writers Guild of America West sent a letter to the F.C.C. supporting real-time disclosure of product placement and asking for a ban on video news releases on local broadcast television.
 ''This practice is unbelievably deceptive and is an attempt to trick the viewer to think that a paid advertisement is actually news,'' the group's president, Patric M. Verrone, wrote.
 Herbert Jack Rotfeld, a professor of marketing at Auburn University, said that product placement deals on news shows could backfire for both sides. ''In the end, they just make the audiences even more skeptical of everything.'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jason Feinberg and Monica Jackson with McDonald's drinks on the set of the Fox morning show in Las Vegas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FOX 5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (89%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); WRITERS (89%); PRODUCT PLACEMENT (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (74%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (60%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (50%)

COMPANY: MEREDITH CORP (71%)

TICKER: MDP (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (71%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (71%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (71%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%)

PERSON: SIMON COWELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (51%) NEVADA, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



538 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; EAST BOOTHBAY JOURNAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: A Shipyard Fire Shakes a Tradition-Rich Town to Its Core

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: EAST BOOTHBAY, Me. 

 BODY:
This village on the eastern side of a rocky peninsula is known for its boats: majestic yachts, workhorse tugboats and sloops made by craftspeople with an unflagging work ethic and a pride passed down by generations of boat builders. 
 So when East Boothbay's biggest shipyard, Washburn & Doughty Associates, was destroyed by a fire July 11, it struck at the heart of this village about 30 miles up the coast from Portland. 
 ''Boat building is Boothbay,'' said John Anderson, manager of the Town of Boothbay, which includes East Boothbay. It has been the town's dominant industry for about 150 years. ''The impact of this on the local economy, the people, is huge.'' 
 Ensuring that Washburn & Doughty reopens is also crucial to the state: it is one of the biggest boat builders in Maine, which has spent the past few years marketing its boats worldwide. According to Maine Built Boats, an industry group, boat builders in the state generated $355 million in sales in 2006 and employed 2,500 people.
 ''It's the No. 1 manufacturing sector, and that's something we don't want to lose like we lost paper mills and like we lost lumber mills,'' said Ted Smith, a spokesman for neighboring Hodgdon Yachts. ''It's not easily exported. You can't send this to Iowa or Pennsylvania. This is part of Maine's heritage.'' 
 For the East Boothbay General Store, the five boat builders nearby are its livelihood, too. The store's manager, Crystal Theall, said the shipyards' workers kept the store open in the winter, dropping by for hot coffee, meatball subs and good conversation. 
 ''Every day there's a routine,'' Ms. Theall said. ''A coffee break at 9, lunch at 11:30 or 12, when the regulars pile in. You know all their names, what they order.'' 
 ''The company is a part of East Boothbay,'' she added. ''The shipyards are the end-all and be-all here. That's what East Boothbay is known for.'' 
 No one was hurt in the fire and propane tank explosions that destroyed Washburn & Doughty, which is now reduced to twisted, charred metal and black pieces of wood that look like charcoal. 
 The state fire marshal ruled the fire accidental, caused by sparks from a machine. Damage to the company was estimated at $30 million. The day before the fire, the company, the only steel tugboat manufacturer in Maine, received permission from the town to start a $5 million expansion. 
 The men and women who build boats in East Boothbay would rather be doing just that. Before the fire was extinguished, company executives were devising a plan to stay in business. It is using an adjacent park as a base of operations, where about 35 employees are working on a tugboat that was not damaged. 
 About 65 employees were laid off, the company said. Other boat builders in town, including Hodgdon Yachts, as well as local construction companies, have offered temporary work to some of them. The town has set up a fund to help the laid-off workers, and Maine's senators, Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins, issued a statement saying, ''The family-owned shipyard is integral to the Boothbay community's economy and history, and we pledge to provide all available aid and assistance to help this company rebuild.''
 The company hopes to rehire workers as demolition and repairs begin. 
 ''The desire is to get everyone back to work as soon as possible,'' said Washburn & Doughty's operations manager, Lee Smith. ''This is over $4 million annually in payroll. It directly affects all of the business here. The local community understands, and their willingness to help has been tremendous.'' 
 With their combustible mix of wood, solvents, other chemicals and propane, East Boothbay's shipyards have always worried local firefighters. In 1944 a major fire roared through Rice Brothers, a boat-building company on the site of what is now Washburn & Doughty, which moved here in 1985. 
 Capt. Dave Pratt of the Boothbay Fire Department said that in the July 11 fire ''the minute the call went out, we knew what we were up against.''
 ''It's on the water, you can only fight it from three sides,'' Captain Pratt continued. ''It was the biggest fire I've ever seen and probably will ever see.'' 
 Ms. Theall, whose general store was closed because of the thick smoke, said the fire was something she and everyone else here never wanted to see again. 
 ''For people in this area it's just too close to home.'' Ms. Theall said. ''It's right in our backyard. Everyone loves everyone else here. It's just so sad.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A fire on July 11 in East Boothbay, Me., destroyed Washburn & Doughty's 50,000-square-foot shipbuilding facility, forcing dozens of layoffs. (PHOTOGRAPH BRIDGET BROWN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A 1948 photo shows the Rice Brothers shipyard, rear left, on the site of what became Washburn & Doughty, one of Maine's biggest boat builders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOAT BUILDING (92%); MARINE VESSELS (91%); SHIPBUILDING (90%); SALES FIGURES (72%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SAW MILLS (66%); PAPER & PACKAGING (66%); PAPER MILLS (66%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (90%) MAINE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



539 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Tepid Response to HBOS Share Sale

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Investors shunned a share offering on Monday by Britain's largest mortgage lender, HBOS, making it more difficult and costly for other banks to raise capital just when they need it most. 
 Morgan Stanley and Dresdner Kleinwort, the underwriters of the share sale, have been left with more than half of the shares in the rights issue worth $:4 billion, or $8 billion, a sign that many investors expect financial services firms to continue to struggle in the market turmoil. 
 By Monday morning, investors had bought only 8.3 percent of the shares on offer, but the underwriting banks managed to sell an additional 30 percent during the day, leaving them with about $:2.5 billion in HBOS stock. 
 Morgan and Dresdner have until Tuesday afternoon in London to sell the remaining shares in the market or they will be forced to keep them. 
 ''There are some firms that would still benefit from a rights issue, but it's a little late now,'' said Alex Potter, a bank analyst at Collins Stewart in London. ''If any firm gets into trouble now, it will be much more difficult and expensive to raise capital.'' 
 Banks have tapped investors to raise capital after about $417 billion of write-downs on assets linked to the troubled subprime mortgage market in the United States. 
 HBOS's ill-fated share sale came days after Barclays, one of the largest British banks, said shareholders bought 19 percent of the shares offered in a capital increase. Bradford & Bingley, a British mortgage lender, was forced to revise its plan three times as its share price declined. 
 European banks may need to raise more capital to digest a further 120 billion euro, or $191 billion, in losses as the economy continues to deteriorate, the management consultants Oliver Wyman said in a statement Monday. A French bank, Natixis, still plans to raise about 4 billion euros.
 But investment banks may become cautious about underwriting any future share sales after the recent failures, some analysts said. 
 ''Underwriters themselves, mostly investment banks, lost a lot of money and they are now much more cautious in taking on the risk,'' said Adrian Darley, a fund manager at Resolution Asset Management in London. ''Some companies will therefore have to think differently how they can raise capital in an environment like this and one way is through asset sales.'' 
 Some banks have already started to sell assets. Royal Bank of Scotland is seeking buyers for its British insurance unit and assets in Australia and New Zealand. Fortis, a European banking group, plans to sell some Dutch commercial-lending operations to Deutsche Bank. 
 Underwriters of share sales usually line up institutional investors and other so-called sub-underwriters to buy at a discount the shares that remain unsold. The investment banks may also try to sell the shares on the stock market, but that would put further pressure on HBOS's share price. 
 Shares in HBOS, based in Edinburgh, have fallen 45 percent since it announced the offer on April 29 and dropped below the offer price of 275 pence days before the acceptance deadline. To avoid the failure of rights issues because of a slumping share price ahead of the sale, Britain's financial regulator last month imposed new requirements on short sellers, forcing them to disclose their position above a certain threshold. 
 HBOS, which paid $:160 million in underwriting fees and other costs related to the share sale, plans to use the new funds to replenish its capital base after writing down almost $:4 billion since the start of the financial market turmoil last year. 
 The capital would also provide the lender with a buffer to cope with a deteriorating housing market and economy in the United Kingdom. HBOS said last month that house prices would fall as much as 9 percent this year, leading to more write-downs. Some mortgage owners have started to struggle with interest payments as cheaper fixed-rate mortgages expire and accelerating inflation pushes up everyday expenses like food and electricity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK OFFERINGS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); NEW ISSUES (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (79%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (79%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (74%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (72%); EURO (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%)

COMPANY: HBOS PLC (92%); COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (72%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (61%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); COLLINS STEWART HAWKPOINT PLC (55%); SANTANDER UK PLC (54%); NATIXIS SA (53%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (61%); RBS (LSE) (61%); RBS (AMS) (61%); MS (NYSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); KN (PAR) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (72%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (72%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (54%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (53%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED KINGDOM (91%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (90%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



540 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Construction Workers in Bronx Split $1.23 Million in Back Pay

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Two hundred and eighty-four construction workers in the Bronx will receive a total of $1.23 million in back pay as part of a settlement over unpaid overtime, Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo announced on Monday. 
 Mr. Cuomo said the construction workers had not received time and a half for the overtime they had worked while renovating a dozen apartment buildings on the Grand Concourse, Gerard Avenue and elsewhere in the Bronx. He said the workers had received straight pay, regardless of how many hours they worked above 40 each week.
 Mr. Cuomo's office reached a settlement with two companies, J. Siebold Construction and Finkelstein-Morgan, which owns and manages real estate, without bringing a lawsuit against them.
 ''New York's construction workers are the backbone of this city's economy, but these companies sought to stiff almost 300 Bronx construction workers out of the overtime pay they earned and deserve,'' Mr. Cuomo said. 
 ''Today's settlement will turn over $1.2 million to these workers and also send a serious message to employers across the state: Time-and-a-half pay for work over 40 hours a week is the law in New York State, and if an employer ignores that law, we will take action.''
 The settlement is part of efforts by the attorney general and the State Labor Department to crack down on wage theft, which includes forcing employees to work off the clock, erasing hours they have worked and not paying time and a half for overtime. 
 The agreement calls for J. Siebold to pay $1.07 million in back wages and $160,000 in interest and penalties, while Finkelstein-Morgan serves as the guarantor of the payments. The violations occurred from October 2002 to August 2006, according to the attorney general's office.
 Under the settlement, the attorney general's office will monitor the companies' time and payroll practices to ensure their compliance until 2010. 
 Also under the settlement, the two companies are banned from retaliating in any way against employees who cooperated or were perceived as cooperating in the investigation.
 Dennis A. Lalli, a lawyer for J. Siebold and Finkelstein-Morgan, said, ''We cooperated fully with the agency, and I think the parties are in agreement that the final settlement was fair to all involved.''
 Steven Finkelstein, a partner in Finkelstein-Morgan, said that his company owned the buildings and that J. Siebold was doing the renovations. Mr. Finkelstein said that because Mr. Cuomo came after both companies, ''I had to be part of the settlement.'' Of J. Siebold, he said, ''They're as embarrassed about this as we are.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BACK PAY (93%); OVERTIME (92%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (68%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



541 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: Leading Indicators Suggest Slowdown Into Second Half

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
A closely watched forecast of future economic activity fell in June as factories laid off workers, stocks tumbled and shoppers ditched their credit cards, and the trend was seen as likely to continue in the second half of 2008. 
 The New York-based Conference Board's forecast of future economic activity, released Monday, fell 0.1 percent last month, in line with forecasts by Wall Street economists surveyed by Thomson Financial/IFR.
 The group also revised May's number downward to a 0.2 percent decrease, from a 0.1 percent increase.
 The financial crisis, high gas and food prices, and the weak dollar ''are all combining to produce unrelenting downward pressure on economic activity,'' said Ken Goldstein, labor economist with the Conference Board. ''This is also why it wouldn't take much to push the economy so it's even weaker in the second half of 2008.''
 The index has slipped 0.9 percent for the six months ending in June, but the rate of decline is less steep than it was in the first quarter. The index aims to predict where the economy is headed in the next three to six months based on 10 economic components, called leading indicators, which include stock prices, building permits and initial claims for unemployment benefits.
 Downturns in the auto and housing industries have been devastating for the manufacturers that produce everything from spark plugs to vinyl siding. And more job cuts are almost certain: General Motors said last week it would cut production of trucks and sport utility vehicles by 300,000 by the end of next year.
 Manufacturers that make anything related to cars and trucks have been laying off workers, cutting their hours, selling the companies or shutting their doors, said Ralph E. Hardt, president of Feintool Inc., a Cincinnati component maker.
 ''The number of auction fliers that come across my desk is back where it was in 2000, 2001, the last recession we had,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Leading Indicators: An index of 10 economic indicators of the Conference Board that are intended to predict overall economic activity
 2004 =100. (Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); TRENDS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); AUCTIONS (75%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (75%); US DOLLAR (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); FOOD PRICES (70%); BUILDING PERMITS (65%)

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (72%); FEINTOOL INC (65%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3469 METAL STAMPINGS, NEC (65%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



542 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: Texas Instruments Disappoints And Predicts Weak 3rd Quarter

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Texas Instruments posted disappointing second-quarter results and gave a weak third-quarter outlook on Monday, blaming a broad-based slowdown in customer orders.
 The results, released after the close of market trading, fell short of Wall Street forecasts and set off a decline of more than 10 percent in the company's share price in the after-hours session. 
 While Texas Instrument's wireless chip business has been weakening for some time, the company is showing signs that the downturn was spreading to analog chips, which are used in products ranging from consumer electronics to industrial equipment.
 The company said profit was $588 million, or 44 cents a share, compared with $614 million, or 42 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Revenue dropped 2 percent, to $3.35 billion from $3.42 billion.
 The results were worse than the average analyst target for earnings of 46 cents on revenue of $3.39 billion. 
 Texas Instruments said demand slowed unexpectedly in June as distributors reduced inventory levels and did not replenish supplies. It said revenue from wireless products also continued to decline.
 The company, which is based in Dallas, forecast third-quarter earnings of 41 to 47 cents a share on revenue of $3.26 billion to $3.54 billion. Wall Street on average expected earnings of 51 cents a share on revenue of $3.57 billion.
 The chief executive, Richard K. Templeton, blamed the weaker economic environment for the slower demand. ''Our orders were up in the quarter and backlog grew, but we are cautious given the demand environment we just experienced,'' Mr. Templeton said.
 The chief financial officer, Kevin P. March, said that demand increased for chips used in phones with third generation high-speed Web access, but demand fell for lower-end phones.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); INVENTORIES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (92%)

TICKER: TXN (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (92%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%)

PERSON: RICHARD K TEMPLETON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (59%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



543 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: Russia Scorns Methadone for Heroin Addiction

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
The conference seemed innocuous enough: a Moscow hotel, slide shows and several dozen doctors and specialists gathered to discuss how to treat heroin addiction. But then members of a Kremlin youth group called the Young Guard arrived, crowding the hotel's entrance and denouncing the participants as criminals and paid agents of the West. 
 The focus of their outrage was methadone, a drug prescribed by doctors around the world to wean addicts from heroin. A synthetic form of opium, methadone is central to a therapy endorsed by the United Nations and 55 countries, including the United States.
 But not Russia. Though heroin abuse is widely linked to the country's H.I.V. epidemic and the spread of criminality, the issue of methadone treatment is all but taboo here. 
 Methadone, typically taken by mouth in liquid form, blocks addicts' cravings for heroin by binding to the brain's opioid receptors. Methadone has critics in many countries, who argue that it replaces one form of opiate addiction with another; in Russia even talking about it can provoke legal sanction. 
 ''There is no possibility to have a normal discussion about this issue,'' said Dr. Vladimir D. Mendelevich, director of the Institute for Research Into Psychological Health, in Kazan, 500 miles east of Moscow.
 After the conference in February, which Dr. Mendelevich helped organize, Moscow's legislature began an inquiry into whether he had engaged in ''drug propaganda,'' and it called on prosecutors to open a case against him, he said. 
 Several years ago, prosecutors filed administrative charges against him after he posted reports on methadone treatment to his Web site. The charges were eventually dropped, but he was forced to take down the site. ''If I revive it,'' he said, ''another case of narco-propaganda will be opened, and there would likely be some kind of verdict.'' 
 While Dr. Mendelevich struggles with his opponents, Russia continues to suffer a steady increase in intravenous drug use. Drug addiction was nearly unheard of until the Soviet Union fell. But as borders opened and the economy collapsed, illicit narcotics gushed in. 
 Estimates on the number of drug addicts in Russia range from three million to six million. Most use intravenous drugs like heroin and other opium-based narcotics that largely originate in Afghanistan and easily flow across the country's porous southern borders. 
 The epidemic has put added strain on Russia's struggling health care system and has posed a serious challenge to law enforcement. 
 Intravenous drug use is also the leading cause of H.I.V. and AIDS in Russia. It accounted for about 66 percent of new cases in 2006, and the epidemic continues to grow, though not as quickly as in the past, according to the United Nations' AIDS agency. The Russian government estimated that as of 2007 more than 400,000 people were living with H.I.V., out of a population of about 142 million. (The United Nations' estimate from 2005 was 940,000; by comparison, 1.2 million Americans, out of a total of 300 million, were living with H.I.V.)
 Many international experts say methadone treatment is critical to controlling the epidemic. Coupled with needle exchange (already in use in some Russian cities), the therapy could ''largely stop the spread of H.I.V. among injecting drug users,'' Peter Piot, the executive director of Unaids, the United Nations agency, said in May.
 Without methadone, he said, the epidemic is not likely to be stopped. ''I may be wrong, but I don't see it happening.'' 
 Russia's health establishment is not impressed.
 At the same AIDS conference, Dr. Gennady G. Onishchenko, the country's chief sanitary doctor, the equivalent of surgeon general, said health officials ''are not convinced that this is effective,'' and added, ''There is little optimism for legalizing methadone therapy in the near future.'' 
 Dr. Onishchenko declined to be interviewed on this issue, as did Dr. Nikolai N. Ivanets, Russia's top narcotics specialist. 
 Dr. Ivanets, an aggressive opponent of methadone, who gave opening remarks at Dr. Mendelevich's conference, attacked the professional credentials of the conference participants and singled out Dr. Mendelevich for special scorn. 
 ''Everyone has become so annoyed with methadone, with the exception of a few groups of people who call themselves specialists,'' Dr. Ivanets said at the conference. ''This is a group of dissenters.''
 Methadone opponents in Russia say the therapy entraps patients in lifelong addiction; others accuse Western countries of pushing the treatment on Russia for commercial gain. There are also fears that methadone could seep into the black market, given the high level of corruption at many Russian clinics. 
 Russia's own treatment methods, though not perfect, they argue, sufficiently address the needs of addicts. 
 Then there are the pro-Kremlin youths from groups like Young Guard -- the youth wing of the dominant United Russia party -- whom the government routinely mobilizes to harass high-profile dissenters. At their demonstration outside the methadone conference, protesters held placards and waved flags, calling methadone ''a dead end.'' 
 But some Russian specialists, along with current and former addicts, have begun to challenge the official line. 
 ''Scientific arguments, evidence-based data, are not convincing them,'' said Evgeny M. Krupitsky, the head of a laboratory that conducts research on drug addiction at St. Petersburg State Pavlov Medical University. Russian methodology regarding opiate addiction ''is not evidence-based,'' but relies on ''subjective opinions of major leaders in this field.'' 
 Though not every addict would benefit from methadone substitution therapy, more than 60 percent of Russian users would, Dr. Krupitsky said.
 Many researchers on both sides of the methadone debate agree that only a small fraction of the heroin users in Russia seek treatment at detoxification centers and that most who do -- some say more than 90 percent -- relapse into drug use shortly after leaving. 
 At such clinics, doctors encourage immediate abstinence from drug use, rather than the gradual process that methadone substitution therapy entails. Patients are often given sedatives and painkillers to cope with withdrawal symptoms. Many are then released after a month or two with the expectation that they will remain clean. They rarely do. 
 ''You only have a chance to stay sober for one month,'' said Masha A. Ovchinnikova, a former heroin addict from St. Petersburg, who said she quit largely with willpower (and anti-withdrawal drugs provided by ''contacts''), while friends remained mired in addiction or died. 
 ''If you go on detox once and then twice and then three times, you realize that it doesn't work for you,'' Ms. Ovchinnikova said. ''You don't want to ask for help from the medical system; you don't believe in it.'' 
 Supporters of methadone treatment or other opiate substitution therapies argue that if properly administered by medical professionals, the treatment method breaks addicts' dependence on illegal narcotics, acting as a surrogate to ease withdrawal symptoms, while decreasing the risk of overdose, criminality and H.I.V. transmission. 
 ''I am for any scientific, medical approach to treatment,'' said Albert Y. Zaripov, a former heroin addict who counsels users in Kazan. 
 He began shooting heroin more than a decade ago with a group of 10 friends. Four are in jail, another four remain chained to their addictions, and two died. He alone quit, but after he had contracted H.I.V. 
 ''If there is another treatment besides substitution therapy, there's no problem,'' he said. ''But I haven't heard of anything else that has helped or that is more effective.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DRUG PROBLEM: Patients in a program for heroin addiction in Yekaterinburg, Russia, run by a nongovernmental group. Top, preparing to shoot up in Kazan.(F5)
 HOOKED: Three million to six million Russians are addicts.(F7)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEROIN (95%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); OPIUM (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); AIDS & HIV (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); MENTAL HEALTH (74%); HEALTH CARE (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



544 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: End Gridlock on the Runway

BYLINE: By MARY E. PETERS. 
Mary E. Peters is the secretary of transportation.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 HIGH oil prices present the aviation industry with one of its greatest challenges in recent memory. This is why it is so important to offset fuel costs with a more efficient and reliable system of air travel. 
 Yet while consumers are clamoring for planes that arrive and depart on time, airline lobbyists are trying to block efforts by the Transportation Department to reduce congestion, keep airfares affordable and increase the number of passengers who can fly at our most popular airports. These lobbyists oppose a fundamental economic principle -- letting airports charge prices that reflect demand. 
 My department has proposed auctioning the landing and departure slots at Kennedy, La Guardia and Newark Airports, to let the market determine the cost of using them during periods of high demand. (About three-quarters of all air travel delays nationwide are caused by congestion in New York.) Unfortunately, a bill in the Senate would block our plan. 
 You're already familiar with the concept of demand-based pricing. It's why using your cellphone at night is cheaper than making a call on your lunch hour and why renting a beach house in New Jersey costs more in the summer than in the winter. 
 Under the current system, however, the airlines pay the airports the same price (based on aircraft weight) for flights at heavily congested times as every other time. 
 These weight-based prices mean that there's no incentive for airlines to use larger planes, which can move more people during busy flight times. In fact, using smaller planes keeps demand -- and ticket prices -- higher. It should come as no surprise that delays at popular flying times and into popular airports have exploded in recent years. 
 The airlines prefer the status quo, which is simply not working. Americans deserve better.
 At a recent Congressional hearing, the head of the airlines' primary lobbying organization, the Air Transport Association, asserted that pricing is not an effective mechanism for balancing supply and demand for landing slots. When lobbyists argue that basic economic principles do not apply to the industry they represent, a red flag should go up. 
 After all, the airlines themselves lower ticket prices to attract passengers when demand is low and then raise prices to maximize revenues when demand is high. What would happen if airlines were required by the government to charge the same ticket price for travel on Dec. 24 as they charge in the middle of September? There would either be rationing of extremely scarce seats on Dec. 24 or exorbitantly high prices for widely available seats in the middle of September. In either case, this inefficient outcome would damage the economy broadly and the aviation sector specifically. 
 Yet that is exactly how airports charge airlines for the use of their terminals and runways.
 There was another famous experiment with this approach: government-mandated caps on gas prices in the 1970s. For the millions of Americans who endured the gas lines the price caps helped produce, it was disastrous economic policy. There is little difference between the approach advocated by today's airline lobbyists and price regulations on gasoline in the 1970s. 
 Repeated attempts to avoid economic reality by aviation special interests have produced an increasingly unreliable aviation system. In our economy, prices work not only to balance supply and demand, but also to add capacity where we need it -- not just where politicians want it. 
 In other words, the argument championed by airline lobbyists and some of their Congressional supporters that ''we just need more capacity and technology, not pricing'' incorrectly assumes that these are competing concepts. But the main reason we have failed to add capacity and modernize our air traffic control system is that our approach to paying for aviation infrastructure completely disconnects the price of using capacity from its true costs and thus promotes overuse at popular airports and during popular flying times.
 It's understandable that the airline industry wants to protect its interests. But the Transportation Department is in the business of protecting consumers, fostering competition and providing reliable air travel, not placating special interests. Independent economic experts of all political backgrounds agree that either auctions or congestion pricing is far preferable to the failed experiment we have now. 
 I greatly admire the amazing achievements made by the airline industry in the United States over the past 25 years. Despite some very difficult economic headwinds, today we have the most diverse flying public in the world, thanks to the airlines and deregulation. Air travel, a service once thought a luxury for the super-rich, is now widely available to middle- and low-income people. 
 In the 1970s, many of the industry's lobbyists took the position being espoused today -- that basic economic principles could not be applied to commercial aviation, that competition would not work and that consumers would be harmed if airlines were given the freedom to design their own networks and to set prices based on market forces. 
 The lobbyists were wrong then. They are wrong today. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HENNING WAGENBRETH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AIR FARES (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TICKET SALES (87%); AIRPORT OPERATION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%)

COMPANY: AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



545 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Face Time That Relies On Screens

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Jill Smart, an Accenture executive, was skeptical the first time she stepped into her firm's new videoconferencing room in Chicago for a meeting with a group of colleagues in London. But the videoconferencing technology, known as telepresence, delivered an experience so lifelike, Ms. Smart recalled, that ''10 minutes into it, you forget you are not in the room with them.''
 Accenture, a technology consulting firm, has installed 13 of the videoconferencing rooms at its offices around the world and plans to have an additional 22 operating before the end of the year. 
 Accenture figures its consultants used virtual meetings to avoid 240 international trips and 120 domestic flights in May alone, for an annual saving of millions of dollars and countless hours of wearying travel for its workers.
 As travel costs rise and airlines cut service, companies large and small are rethinking the face-to-face meeting -- and business travel as well. At the same time, the technology has matured to the point where it is often practical, affordable and more productive to move digital bits instead of bodies.
 The emerging trend, analysts say, goes well beyond a reaction to rising travel costs and a weakening economy. ''These technology tools are going to change the way corporations think about travel and work in the long run,'' an analyst at Forrester Research, Claire Schooley, said. 
 Past predictions that technology could replace travel have been frequent and premature. The main difference today, analysts say, is that the technology is finally catching up to its promise. No single breakthrough explains the progress, but rather a series of step-by-step advances -- and steady investment -- in telecommunications networks, software and computer processing.
 The results can be seen not only in the expensive new telepresence systems like those from Cisco Systems or Hewlett-Packard, but also in more mainstream collaboration technologies -- Web conferencing, online document sharing, wikis and Internet telephony. The audio and desktop presentations in Web-based meetings, for example, are now more likely to be in sync and interactive.
 Companies of all sizes are beginning to shift to Web-based meetings for training and sales presentations. ''Only in the last two years has the technology gotten to point where it really makes sense to use it,'' said Alan Minton, vice president for marketing at Cornerstone Information Systems, a 60-person business software company in Bloomington, Ind. 
 With his sales force doing many product demonstrations online, Mr. Minton estimates the group's travel costs of have been cut by 60 percent and the average time to close a new sale has been reduced by 30 percent.
 No one suggests that the face-to-face meeting is becoming obsolete, or that it is time for a requiem for the road warrior. Companies talk about using digital tools mainly as a way of making business travel more selective and more productive.
 Still, the potential for digital displacement of business travel is substantial. A report last month by the Global e-Sustainability Initiative, a group of technology companies, and the Climate Group, an environmental organization, estimated that up to 20 percent of business travel worldwide could be replaced by Web-based and conventional videoconferencing technology. 
 The most dedicated business travelers tend to be management consultants, investment bankers, accountants, lawyers and technology services consultants. Much of their work has to be done in person with clients. But these professionals are increasingly using online collaboration tools for work within their firms.
 At I.B.M., Michael Littlejohn, a work force and technology expert in the company's global services unit, said two years ago, he was on the road 13 to 15 days a month. These days, he says, he travels 8 or 10 days a month. ''But my time spent with clients is not less,'' he said. ''To really understand a client's problems or to close a deal, you need face to face.''
 Corporate training and education is a field many companies are moving online, in part to trim travel costs. Darryl Draper, the national manager of customer service training for Subaru of America, used to travel four days a week, nine months of the year, presenting educational programs at dealers nationwide. Today, Ms. Draper rarely travels and nearly all of her training is done online. 
 Previously, Ms. Draper estimated, in six months she would reach about 220 people at a cost of $300 a person. She said she now reaches 2,500 people every six months at a cost of 75 cents a person. 
 A range of companies offer the mainstream online communications and collaboration tools, including WebEx, Citrix, Microsoft, I.B.M. and others. The most rarefied offering, though, is telepresence videoconferencing. Today, it is an elite product supplied by a few companies, including Cisco, H.P. and Polycom.
 Completed telepresence rooms, typically with three huge curved screens (and a fourth screen above for shared work), custom lighting and acoustics, cost up to $350,000 -- though that is down from $500,000, when H.P. sold its first system in early 2006. 
 The resolution on telepresence screens is even sharper than on high-definition televisions, and images can be magnified to inspect products. Engineers at the far-flung labs of Advanced Micro Devices, for example, scrutinize the microcircuitry on new chip designs using the company's telepresence systems. And the images of people on screen are life-size. 
 Cisco, which has more than 200 telepresence rooms, figures it is avoiding $100 million in yearly travel costs, and reducing its greenhouse gas emissions from air travel by 10 percent. H.P. says air travel among its offices with telepresence rooms is down 25 percent. 
 When used regularly, the rooms pay for themselves within a year, analysts estimate. Sales of telepresence systems will more than double this year to 627, estimates the market research firm IDC, and reach more than 8,000 by 2012. 
 There is a certain paradox in telepresence, in that it is all to simulate the richest form of human interaction: people talking to each other, face to face.
 And it is not a perfect substitute. Ms. Smart, the chief of human resources for Accenture, still travels about 10 days a month. ''You don't learn about other cultures in telepresence,'' she said. ''You get things from being there, over breakfast and dinner, building relationships face to face.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jill Smart, in foreground, in a videoconference from her office in Chicago with colleagues in Atlanta and London. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER WYNN THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VIDEO CONFERENCING (92%); TELECONFERENCING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); SALES & SELLING (84%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); TECHNOLOGY MATURITY (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (73%); TRENDS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); PRESENTATION SOFTWARE (68%); COMPUTER TELEPHONY (63%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (63%); SALES FORCE (60%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (60%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (50%)

COMPANY: ACCENTURE PLC (92%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); CORNERSTONE INFORMATION SYSTEMS INC (51%)

TICKER: ACN (NYSE) (92%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) INDIANA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



546 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 232 words

HEADLINE: Hasbro, Reporting a Profit Above Expectations, Says It Will Raise Prices

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Hasbro posted a higher-than-expected quarterly profit on Monday, helped by sales of toys tied to movies like the latest ''Indiana Jones'' film, but the company's shares fell after it said it would raise prices. 
 Hasbro's chief executive, Brian Goldner, said in a conference call that the economic environment in the United States and overseas was ''much more challenging'' than the company anticipated.
 Second-quarter profit jumped to $37.5 million, or 25 cents a share, from $4.8 million, or 3 cents a share, a year earlier, when the company took a charge of $36.5 million, or 21 cents a share, to repurchase warrants from Lucasfilm and Lucas Licensing.
 Analysts, on average, expected profit of 22 cents a share, according to Reuters Estimates.
 Hasbro, the No. 2 American toy maker after Mattel, said sales rose 13 percent, to $784.3 million.
 American and Canadian sales were up 11 percent, to $467.7 million, while sales in international markets increased 15 percent to $293.7 million, aided by the weak dollar.
 Effective Sept. 1, Hasbro, whose brands include Playskool and Littlest Pet Shop, will raise prices in the mid-single digits in percentage terms to protect its margins, said David Hargreaves, chief operating officer and chief financial officer.
 Mattel raised prices on most of its products in the mid- to high single digits in June.
 Hasbro stock declined 64 cents, to $37.35.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (57%)

COMPANY: HASBRO INC (95%)

TICKER: HAS (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (95%)

PERSON: BRIAN GOLDNER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



547 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: The Plight of Debt-Ridden Americans

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Given a Shovel, Digging Deeper Into Debt'' (''The Debt Trap'' series, front page, July 20): 
 Your astute profile of American indebtedness makes clear what Congress must do to manage the effects of the present credit crisis on the United States economy: Minimize the effect upon American families of the debt burdens thrust upon them by a financial industry gone wild. 
 Our elected representatives have the power to rein in usurious interest rates and unconscionable fees charged by credit card and home equity lenders. They can step in and force mortgage lenders into appropriate workouts, most probably by taking over defaulting loans and mortgage-backed securities, not just by bailing out the Wall Street offenders themselves. 
 And our elected officials can take steps to make college affordable again, giving middle-class people some prospect of a future in this rapidly changing economy. 
 In the end, these measures will be good for the lenders themselves, by minimizing default rates and maximizing financial recovery. Only by placing reasonable restrictions upon lenders can we assist our economy in climbing out of its current hole.
 Kimberly Davis
 Hingham, Mass., July 20, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The financial troubles of Diane McLeod, who is featured in your article, make me realize how easily many of us could be her. 
 When my husband and I bought our first home in the 1980s, we didn't qualify for a mortgage because of outstanding student and car loans. My father co-signed, but even then the house we could afford was modest. That was the prudent -- and humane -- action for the bank to take, given our situation. 
 How dare anyone blame folks like Diane McLeod for their own predicament when our own government has encouraged the lending practices that put profits before sound economics.
 Recently, legislation was passed in the Senate that would allow many borrowers to refinance their homes. Since these loans depend on the voluntary participation of lenders, both government and industry now have a chance to make it up to the citizens who trusted them. Jennifer Just
 Woodbridge, Conn., July 20, 2008
 To the Editor:
 There was one very telling line in ''Given a Shovel, Digging Deeper Into Debt'': ''Years of spending more than they earn have left a record number of Americans like Ms. McLeod standing at the financial precipice.''
 Aren't those record number of Americans simply modeling the behavior of their government? Dan Woog
 Westport, Conn., July 20, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Bravo for your new series on debt! I am a 59-year-old college graduate who, if part of my parents' generation, would be living a comfortable life. Yet despite a modest lifestyle -- I have a 10-year-old car and am a renter -- I am besieged with debt. Glenn W. Smith
 New Orleans, July 20, 2008
 To the Editor:
 As I read of Diane McLeod's unfortunate financial plight, I was struck by the photograph of her with cigarette in hand and ashtray on table. I wonder if Ms. McLeod has considered how much she could increase her cash flow if she were to quit smoking. $100 a month? $300 a month? Jonathan Ballon
 Darnestown, Md., July 20, 2008
 The writer is a medical doctor.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROB DUNLAVEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); FAMILY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (75%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (74%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (74%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (74%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MORTGAGE LOANS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



548 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: The Culture Of Debt

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
On the front page of Sunday's Times, Gretchen Morgenson described Diane McLeod's spiral into indebtedness, and now a debate has erupted over who is to blame. 
 Some people emphasize the predatory lenders who seduced her with too-good-to-be-true credit lines and incomprehensible mortgage offers. Here was a single mother made vulnerable by health problems and divorce. Working two jobs and stressed, she found herself barraged by credit card companies offering easy access to money. Mortgage lenders offered her credit on the basis of the supposedly rising value of her house. These lenders had little interest in whether she could pay off her loans. They made most of their money via initial lending fees and then sold off the loans to third parties. 
 In short, these predatory companies swooped down on a vulnerable woman, took what they could and left her careening toward bankruptcy. 
 Other people emphasize McLeod's own responsibility. She is the one who took the credit card offers knowing that debt is a promise that has to be kept. After her divorce, she went on a shopping spree to make herself feel better. After surgery, she sat at home watching the home shopping channels, charging thousands more.
 Free societies depend on individual choice and responsibility, those in this camp argue. People have to be held accountable for their indulgences or there is no justice. As McLeod herself admirably told Morgenson: ''I regret not dealing with my emotions instead of just shopping.''
 If you go to the online comment section affixed to Morgenson's article, you see advocates of these two positions talking past one another, one side talking the morality of social protection and the other the morality of personal responsibility.
 And yet if you look at McLeod's case, and the entire financial crisis that it stands for, there is a third position. This is the position held in overlapping ways by liberal communitarians and conservative Burkeans.
 This third position begins with the notion that people are driven by the desire to earn the respect of their fellows. Individuals don't build their lives from scratch. They absorb the patterns and norms of the world around them.
 Decision-making -- whether it's taking out a loan or deciding whom to marry -- isn't a coldly rational, self-conscious act. Instead, decision-making is a long chain of processes, most of which happen beneath the level of awareness. We absorb a way of perceiving the world from parents and neighbors. We mimic the behavior around us. Only at the end of the process is there self-conscious oversight.
 According to this view, what happened to McLeod, and the nation's financial system, is part of a larger social story. America once had a culture of thrift. But over the past decades, that unspoken code has been silently eroded. 
 Some of the toxins were economic. Rising house prices gave people the impression that they could take on more risk. Some were cultural. We entered a period of mass luxury, in which people down the income scale expect to own designer goods. Some were moral. Schools and other institutions used to talk the language of sin and temptation to alert people to the seductions that could ruin their lives. They no longer do. 
 Norms changed and people began making jokes to make illicit things seem normal. Instead of condemning hyper-consumerism, they made quips about ''retail therapy,'' or repeated the line that Morgenson noted in her article: When the going gets tough, the tough go shopping.
 McLeod and the lenders were not only shaped by deteriorating norms, they helped degrade them. Despite all the subterranean social influences, there still is that final stage of decision-making when individual choice matters. Each time an avid lender struck a deal with an avid borrower, it reinforced a new definition of acceptable behavior for neighbors, family and friends. In a community, behavior sets off ripples. Every decision is a public contribution or a destructive act. 
 And now the reckoning has come. The turn in the market punishes many of those seduced by financial temptations. (Sometimes capitalism undermines the Puritan virtues, but sometimes it reinforces them.)
 Meanwhile, social institutions are trying to re-right the norms. The government is sending some messages. The Treasury and the Fed are trying to stabilize the system while still ensuring that those who made mistakes feel the pain.
 But the important shifts will be private, as people and communities learn and adopt different social standards. After the Depression, a savings mentality set in. After the dot-com bubble, a bit of sobriety hit Silicon Valley. Now it's the borrowers' and lenders' turn. As the saying goes: People don't change when they see the light. They change when they feel the heat. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PREDATORY LENDING (90%); FAIR LENDING (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); CREDIT CARDS (77%); SINGLE PARENTS (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); LIBERALISM (70%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



549 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Hostility at the Gate Makes for a Wary Crew

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:
THE man came down the jetway in San Francisco wailing that he had just been stung by a bee and needed an ice cube for his swollen wrist. The captain, G. Bruce Hedlund, who has been flying 25 years for airlines, was standing by the cockpit door with a couple of flight attendants.
 ''That'll be a dollar,'' Mr. Hedlund said. 
 The man winced in pain but laughed. ''Could I get it in a baggie?''
 ''Well, that'll be $3,'' Mr. Hedlund said.
 He was joking, of course. A flight attendant hurried to get the poor man some ice and a baggie, without charge.
 But that's the way it is. We are making jokes about an airline charging for first aid. 
 Even as passengers grimace at each new charge the airlines impose, they have generally been sympathetic toward pilots and flight attendants, aware that the crews are also victims of harsh times in a seriously deteriorating industry.
 ''The flying public seems to realize that, in most cases, the captains and the flight attendants are doing the best they can with what they have to work with,'' said Mr. Hedlund, who was an Air Force pilot before flying commercially.
 Over the years, I've occasionally checked in with Mr. Hedlund for a sounding on how things look from the flight deck. Like flight attendants and other pilots, he is free to talk publicly, as long as he does not identify his airline.
 Mr. Hedlund had a couple of things on his mind the other day. One was a recent incident in Miami, where a flight was canceled after passengers booed the late-arriving crew. The other was his more general thought that 30 years after the airline industry was deregulated, the situation might have grown so bad that it was time for a good measure of reregulation.
 First, Miami. On July 6, American Airlines Flight 1908 from Miami to La Guardia Airport was abruptly canceled when the crew, arriving at the gate 75 minutes after departure time, was loudly booed by frustrated passengers.
 Accounts differ about the degree of unruliness. Some passengers later said some people acted with overt hostility, like an angry mob. Others said the flight crew overreacted in canceling the trip. At any rate, the passengers spent the night in Miami and got to New York the next day, almost 24 hours later.
 ''As I understand it, some of the crew said, 'No way, I'm not going to get on a jet with a bunch of people that hate me so bad they're booing me,' '' Mr. Hedlund said. ''And from a security and safety standpoint, I thought that was a good call'' to cancel the flight.
 ''Generally,'' he said, ''when a flight is delayed for a crew and the crew finally shows up, they're cheered. 'Here are our saviors!' '' 
 But with cutbacks in service and systemic snarls, crews are sometimes hard to assemble. A crew that hurries in late has not stopped to go bowling on the way to the airport. Generally, it has been hastily summoned to the job.
 ''People like to think we're in control, but we're just a part of the labor puzzle,'' Mr. Hedlund said. ''We're suffering from shortages in manning and equipment malfunctions, just like the passengers.'' 
 He said he is now seeing ''a culmination of efforts to do more and more with less and less,'' in a system so broken that market forces -- and airline management -- are not going to fix it.
 ''It's a bureaucratic dream,'' he said. ''Ask the airlines, 'What's the problem,' and they say it's the F.A.A. and the airports. Ask the F.A.A., and they say it's the airlines and the airports. Ask the airports, and they say it's the airlines and the F.A.A.'' 
 ''Airlines are like a public utility, vital to the economy,'' he added. Smart regulation would lead to more predictable service and reliability, although it would also mean higher fares, he said. ''But how much bang for your buck are you getting right now?'' he said.
 I asked him if he had any advice for the flying public other than not to boo your flight crew.
 ''Amtrak,'' he said. 
 Joking, he was joking. 
 E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (91%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); BITES & STINGS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (72%); AIR FORCES (72%); ARMED FORCES (65%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



550 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Change Mideast Does Not Believe In

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN and ISABEL KERSHNER; Michael Slackman reported from Amman, and Isabel Kershner from Jerusalem. Mona el-Naggar contributed reporting from Amman, and Nadim Audi from Cairo.

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan 

 BODY:
For what feels like forever, Israelis and their Arab neighbors have been hopelessly deadlocked on how to resolve the Palestinian crisis. But there is one point they may now agree on: If elected president, Senator Barack Obama will not fundamentally recalibrate America's relationship with Israel, or the Arab world.
 From the religious center of Jerusalem to the rolling hills of Amman to the crowded streets of Cairo, dozens of interviews revealed a similar sentiment: the United States will ultimately support Israel over the Palestinians, no matter who the president is. That presumption promoted a degree of relief in Israel and resignation here in Jordan and in Israel's other Arab neighbors.
 ''What we know is American presidents all support Israel,'' said Muhammad Ibrahim, 23, a university student who works part time selling watermelons on the street in the southern part of this city. ''It is hopeless. This one is like the other one. They are all the same. Nothing will change. Don't expect change.'' 
 Across the border, in Israel, Moshe Cohen could not have agreed more. ''Jews there have influence,'' Mr. Cohen said, as he sold lottery tickets along Jaffa Road in Jerusalem. ''He'll have to be good to Israel. If not, he won't be re-elected to a second term.''
 Mr. Obama, who will be here on Tuesday, has promised change. He has offered to begin dialogue where the current president has refused, in places like Syria and Iran. But when he stepped into the Middle East, he walked into a region where public expectations were long ago set. The Bush years have supercharged those sentiments, especially in the Arab world, where there is little faith that the United States can ever again serve as a fair broker between the sides.
 In Israel, Mr. Bush was seen as the most supportive American president yet, and early opinion polls show a preference there for the presumptive Republican nominee, Senator John McCain.
 But Mr. Obama gained ground -- or lost it, depending on which side was reacting -- when he spoke in June to a pro-Israel lobby, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee. He said that Jerusalem ''will remain the capital of Israel, and it must remain undivided.'' 
 He later qualified his comments, saying he meant that the two sides of Jerusalem should not be separated by walls or barbed wire. But the message had already been sent.
 ''The Arabs need America to be straight and unbiased, but anyway we feel, that American policy will not be changed too much,'' said a Palestinian who identified himself by his nickname, Abu Fadi, a salesman in an electrical appliance store in downtown Arab East Jerusalem.
 Behind this general agreement, there is a fundamental difference. In the Arab streets, there is a hope, perhaps limited, that this candidate might be different. He is black, his father was Muslim and his middle name is Hussein, so there is hope that he will be more sympathetic, though that hope is not joined to any expectation.
 ''There is optimism wrapped in cynicism,'' said Hussein al-Shobokshy, a columnist in the pan-Arab Saudi-owned daily newspaper, Asharq Alawsat.
 In Israel, the reverse is true, the lingering suspicion that he is saying what he needs to say to be elected.
 Uri Savir, a former director general of the Israeli Foreign Ministry and now president of the Peres Center for Peace in Tel Aviv, said there were people who want peace, like himself, who ''are quite excited about what Obama can bring.'' 
 But, he acknowledged that his friends on the center-right were somewhat more ambivalent. ''They ask, is he really a friend of Israel?'' he said.
 The answer here and in Cairo and elsewhere around the region is: Of course he will be a friend of Israel's.
 ''He's like a chameleon,'' said Walid Ghalib, 50, as he bought meat from a butcher in the Jabal al Nasr neighborhood of east Amman. ''One day he is with the Palestinian cause. One day he's with Israel. We have a saying here: 'What's better, a black dog or a white dog?' It's all the same. For us, nothing will change.''
 It was not always like this here, but the indifference is a lesson learned.
 Eight years ago, many Arabs, leaders and citizens alike, rooted for Gov. George W. Bush over Vice President Al Gore in the race for the presidency. There was an assumption that Mr. Bush would be like his father, who was seen as relatively Arab-friendly.
 Nearly four years ago, there was hope among Arabs that Americans would have soured on President Bush and elect Senator John Kerry. President Bush had disappointed. Then American voters did, too. 
 ''The Arab street has been here before,'' said Mustafa Hamarneh, the former director of the University of Jordan's Center for Strategic Studies. ''We rooted for this and that, and nothing happened. Its deja vu.''
 ''Unless the Americans realize that they really have to change and become more evenhanded and apply justice in the region, things will be the same,'' he said. 
 Jordan is a small country, just six million people, half of whom are of Palestinian descent. It is without oil and without much water, and has been battered by the crises in the West Bank and Iraq. Mr. Obama will visit a city tense with politics and economics, which are inevitably intertwined. It is also conservative, clean and quiet. 
 Mr. Obama ''will be no different than Bush,'' said Moatasem Hussein, 34, who sold nuts from a shop on a street corner in east Amman. 
 ''What's going to be different?'' said Jasser Shehadi, 40, who sold shoes in the shop next door. ''They are all the same.''
 Across the street, Muhammad al-Banna, 41, said: ''Obama is excellent. He is direct. He is like the successor to J.F.K.''
 Instantly, Khaled Attiat, a carpenter working in an open storefront, jumped into the conversation. ''Oh, come on,'' he shouted. ''They are all as bad as each other.''
 Mr. Banna replied, ''Yes they are all bad, but still, Obama might be a little less bad.''
 The reaction was similar in Egypt which, like Jordan, is one of America's closest allies in the region.
 ''For me it doesn't matter that he's black or his name is Hussein,'' said Ahmed Amin, 34, as he drank a beer in a downtown Cairo bar. ''He's an American, and so I disagree with most of what he says about the Arab world. I mean, Condoleezza Rice was black and poor, and she still invaded Iraq.''
 There is, however, at least one positive lesson drawn by some in this region over Mr. Obama's success. It has served to restore a bit of their faith in American-style democracy, which has been tarnished in recent years by the invasion of Iraq and by an administration that talked about promoting democracy but then seemed to backtrack on its promises, many people here said. 
 The United States, many said, may be a biased supporter of Zionism hostile to Muslims, and still be, for its citizens, a place of opportunity unknown here. 
 ''I think it's very impressive that someone can start very poor and reach the top like this,'' said Hazen Haidar, 23, a gym clerk in Cairo. ''It doesn't happen in Egypt.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''It is hopeless,'' says Muhammad Ibrahim, 23, right, a university student who works part time selling watermelons in Amman. ''Don't expect change.''
''What's going to be different?'' says Jasser Shehadi, 40, a shoe salesman in East Amman. ''They are all the same.''
 ''Oh, come on,'' Khaled Attiat, an Amman carpenter, said to an Obama supporter. ''They are all as bad as each other.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); RELIGION (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); LOTTERIES (66%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMMAN, JORDAN (95%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (95%); CAIRO, EGYPT (90%) UNITED STATES (98%); ISRAEL (96%); JORDAN (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); EGYPT (90%); SYRIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



551 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Care Needed In Lending To Students

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
When Gov. Eliot Spitzer appointed a high-level commission in May 2007 to assess the state's public colleges and universities, one of the first items members agreed on was that New York should join some 40 other states to establish a low-cost student loan program. 
 But as Mr. Spitzer's successor, Gov. David A. Paterson, promised on Monday to ask the Legislature to create such a program, many critical questions remained about how it would be set up to ensure that it does not encourage unnecessary borrowing or undermine existing federal loan programs. 
 Mr. Paterson's office did not provide any details of the shape or scope of the program, but offered broad endorsement of the concept as students wrestle with increasing amounts of debt and fewer available lenders.
 ''As credit markets tighten and fewer financial institutions participate in student lending, students and their families are faced with the prospect of paying higher and higher interest rates,'' the governor said in a written statement after meeting in Albany with members of the Commission on Higher Education. 
 ''New York is one of the only states in the nation without a state-financed student loan program,'' Mr. Paterson noted. ''It is time for that to change, which is why my administration will introduce legislation to include this critical program in next year's budget.''
 While establishing the loan program would require budgetary action, it would not affect the state's bottom line, making it one of the more politically palatable proposals in the commission report in a tough fiscal climate. ''We will first seek to implement those recommendations which achieve high impact at little or no cost and at the same time pursue innovative ways to finance some of the recommendations which require state funding,'' Mr. Paterson emphasized in a statement released on Monday.
 Nearly every state already offers low-cost loans to students, many by using tax-exempt revenue-backed bonds to offer interest rates below what private lenders typically do. The programs date as far back as 25 years with wide variations in scope and intent; some states, including California, essentially use tax-exempt bonds to buy federal student loans and, through nonprofit entities, offer those loans at slightly lower interest rates.
 Robert Shireman, executive director of the Project on Student Debt, a nonprofit group financed largely by the Pew Charitable Trusts, said one major concern about such programs was that they led students to shift their education financing and graduate deeper in debt. 
 He said Iowa, Missouri and Pennsylvania had run into problems when those administering the programs sometimes seemed more concerned about expanding their lending operations than about students' ability to repay the loans. In Iowa, the state attorney general and the Legislature are investigating corruption accusations involving the loan program. 
 ''When Iowa made a big push for loans for students, it reduced the parental role in helping to pay for college,'' Mr. Shireman said.
 ''There is an empire-building element in this,'' he said. ''States get excited about having big loan programs, rather than thinking about 'How do we help students finance in the best way possible?' ''
 Marissa Shorenstein, a spokeswoman for Mr. Paterson, said on Monday, ''We have learned from the mistakes made in Iowa, and will protect against them by implementing safeguards against overaggressive lending.''
 New Jersey provides a model very different from Iowa, in that its lending program is small and aimed at students unable to afford tuition using other loans.
 Experts on higher education financing said on Monday that New York had been late to enter the low-cost realm because the state was among the nation's more generous providers of grants through its Tuition Assistance Program. Also, the State University of New York and the City University of New York are relatively cheap compared with other public colleges.
 But from 2001 to 2005, according to officials at the Higher Education Services Corporation, a state agency, the cost of private and public colleges and universities rose 29 percent in New York, while the average income of state residents rose 16 percent. State officials say there are now $1.5 billion to $2 billion in loans extended to students attending more than 1,000 institutions across New York.
 Abraham M. Lackman, president of the Commission on Independent Colleges and Universities, an advocacy group for more than 100 of New York's private institutions, says the need for low-cost loans is great because the number of lenders offering college loans has shrunk. 
 He said that two years ago, colleges would typically recommend more than a dozen lenders to families, but that there now are five or six. He said community colleges, in particular, were having trouble matching private lenders and students.
 The largest source of lending remains the federal government, which has a number of programs available, including Stafford loans. Those who qualify for these loans, and nearly all students do, can borrow a maximum of roughly $30,000 toward a four-year education. 
 There is a separate loan program administered by the federal government that allows parents to borrow on their children's behalf with no limit. Students pursuing graduate degrees can also qualify for federal loans that have no limit, provided they have a good credit history.
 These federal loan programs provide an array of safety nets, like loan forgiveness if a student becomes disabled. The federal government also forgives loans for those whose go into public-service professions like teaching or law enforcement.
 One proposal being floated in New York is that in addition to low-cost loans, the state offer debt forgiveness for students who work in the state for 5 or 10 years after graduation, regardless of profession. The governor's spokeswoman said he was considering the idea.
 Luke Swarthout, a higher education advocate at the United States Public Interest Research Group, said that in 1993, 46 percent of students graduated with debt averaging $9,200, and that a decade later, two-thirds of students graduated with a debt of roughly $20,000.
 But he said that even with good intentions, a state program could make the loans seem more enticing and ''create a tendency to push more borrowing on the back of students.''
 ''A policy that expects undergraduates to borrow $100,000 to pay for college is ill-advised and not sustainable,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (74%); CHARITIES (74%); BONDS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LEGISLATION (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); TAX LAW (69%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (68%); FOUNDATIONS (62%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (61%); EXECUTIVES (60%); CORRUPTION (60%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (88%); DAVID PATERSON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



552 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Iran Offers 2 Pages and No Ground in Nuclear Talks

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
The Iranians called their proposal a ''None paper.'' 
 Indeed, for officials of the six countries sitting on the other side of the table, the paper addressed none of their ideas for resolving the crisis over Iran's nuclear program.
 Instead, the informal two-page document that Iran distributed at nuclear talks in Geneva on Saturday ignored the main six-power demand on curbing Iran's enrichment of uranium and called for concessions from the other side. 
 The title of the English-language text had two mistakes. ''The Modality for Comrehensive Negotiations (None paper),'' it read, according to a copy obtained by The New York Times. (Diplomatic jargon for an unofficial negotiating document is ''nonpaper.'')
 For the six powers -- the United States, Russia, China, France, Britain and Germany -- the paper's substance was just as disappointing as its style. Sergei Kisliak, the Russian deputy foreign minister, could not suppress a laugh when he read it, according to one participant. 
 The talks on Saturday included the participation of a senior American official for the first time. The six powers were hoping that Iran would accept a compromise formula to pave the way to formal negotiations. For six weeks, Iran would not add ''any new nuclear activity,'' refraining from the new installation of centrifuges that enrich uranium, and the United States and other powers would not seek new United Nations sanctions.
 But both in their paper, and throughout the talks, the Iranians did not discuss the formula, called a ''freeze for freeze.'' As a result, they left the impression that they wanted to lure the parties into an open-ended, cost-free, high-level negotiating process.
 ''The paper calls for a huge exercise in talking,'' said one senior European official. ''If you were to try to implement it, it would take a minimum of several years.'' 
 Officials spoke on condition of anonymity under normal diplomatic rules. 
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice told Iran on Monday that it could not continue to ''stall'' and she warned of more sanctions if it defied a two-week deadline to accept the proposal.
 The Iranian document, which has not been made public, offered a snapshot of Iran's negotiating style. It put the burden on the other parties. Its imprecise language and misspellings were in sharp contrast to the rigorous approach by Iranian negotiators, many of them career diplomats, who were in charge in 2003 when France, Britain and Germany began the initiative of incentives in exchange for suspension of major nuclear activities. Those diplomats have since been replaced. 
 The paper called for at least three more meetings with Javier Solana, the European Union foreign policy chief, who represents the six powers. Those would be followed by at least four meetings at the foreign ministers' level, which would start with the halting of any sanctions against Iran, ''both inside and outside'' the United Nations Security Council. 
 The Iranian document also seemed to suggest that there could be no discussion of the main issue of contention: some sort of limit on Iran's production of enriched uranium, which can be used to make electricity or to fuel bombs. ''The parties will abstain from referring to or discussing divergent issues that can potentially hinder the progress of negotiations,'' the paper said.
 The six powers want to use their proposed freeze-for-freeze period as a prelude to formal negotiations on a package of economic, political, technological and security rewards. But Iran has to stop enriching uranium for the formal talks to begin. 
 In its paper, Iran focused only on negotiating a ''comprehensive agreement'' for the rewards. The paper also said current international sanctions against Iran would be discontinued. The Iranian nuclear issue will no longer be dealt with by the Security Council or the 35-country governing board of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Only the atomic energy agency itself can deal with the subject, the paper said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Condoleezza Rice with Sheik Muhammad bin Zayed al-Nahyan, Abu Dhabi's crown prince. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WAM, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); CENTRIFUGES (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (74%); JAVIER SOLANA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (76%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); GERMANY (87%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



553 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: McCain Links Obama and High Gas Prices

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
This advertisement for Senator John McCain, the presumed Republican presidential nominee, is to be broadcast on national cable networks and locally in 11 swing states, including economically battered Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania. Called ''Pump,'' it is 30 seconds long. 
 PRODUCER Foxhole Productions
 SCRIPT ''Gas prices. $4, $5, no end in sight. Because some in Washington are still saying no to drilling in America. No to independence from foreign oil. Who can you thank for rising prices at the pump? (chant) Obama, Obama. One man knows we must now drill more in America and rescue our family budgets. Don't hope for more energy, vote for it. McCain.''
 THE SCREEN A lone gasoline pump materializes above a shimmering, golden surface, as if part of a mirage. In the background, as a female announcer speaks, a crowd buzzes. The screen blackens momentarily, then returns to an image of numbers whirring rapidly on a pump, followed by a second brief blackout and more numbers flashing. Mr. Obama then appears on screen, smiling, a gas pump to the left, as the buzz resolves into loud chanting of his name. Another quick blackout, and then, as the words ''one man'' are uttered, Mr. McCain appears, microphone in hand, the first of four images of him that dominate the remainder of the commercial.
 ACCURACY Mr. Obama is not against all drilling for oil and gas, only drilling offshore, a crucial word in the debate on energy policy but one never mentioned here. Increasing domestic oil production is also by no means the only or even main road to long-term energy independence, as both candidates have emphasized on the campaign trail by endorsing alternatives like solar and wind power and corn-based ethanol (in Mr. Obama's case) and nuclear energy (Mr. McCain). Mr. Obama, who has proposed a $150 billion decade-long government-backed effort to help develop clean-energy sources, does oppose the temporary gasoline tax rebate that Mr. McCain favors, calling it an election-year gimmick that does not bring meaningful relief to ordinary Americans. But that is a position many economists and energy experts share. Finally, even before the recent spike, oil prices had been rising for a decade, the result of a variety of political and economic factors in places as far afield as China, India, Venezuela and Nigeria. So it is difficult to understand how Mr. Obama, a first-term senator, can be held responsible for that phenomenon.
 SCORECARD Aside from correctly stating current gasoline prices, ''Pump'' is misleading on nearly every substantive point. But it is shrewdly conceived and may prove to be effective with undecided voters upset about having to pay as much as $100 to fill their gas tanks, yet uncertain as to the causes of the squeeze on their budgets. LARRY ROHTER 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); GASOLINE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (76%); BIOFUELS (74%); WIND ENERGY (74%); SOLAR ENERGY (74%); ETHANOL (74%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (74%); ALCOHOLS (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TAX LAW (62%); TAX RELIEF (61%); FUEL TAX (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); NIGERIA (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



554 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Bank Beats Forecasts, Reassuring Investors

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
After so much bad news from the nation's financial industry, Bank of America heartened Wall Street on Monday with quarterly profits that easily surpassed analysts' gloomy forecasts. 
 While results from a slew of other banks this week could yet disappoint investors, the report from Bank of America, the nation's largest retail bank, added to the sense of cautious optimism that some big banks are starting to find their footing. 
 Bank of America, with its $3.4 billion second-quarter profit, was the fourth major bank to report stronger-than-expected results in recent days. While that result represented a 44 percent decline from the same period a year earlier, it nonetheless exceeded most forecasts and left investors impressed by the company's ability to offset hefty credit losses with higher lending margins and fees. Bank of America's share price rose almost 4 percent in heavy trading. 
 ''We see things improving sequentially,'' Kenneth D. Lewis, Bank of America's chairman and chief executive, said during a conference call with investors. ''We have a ray of optimism now that we haven't had for a few quarters.''
 Mr. Lewis said that while consumer loan losses were rising, he expected them to peak in the next two or three quarters. He forecast that the economy would remain sluggish for the rest of 2008 and slowly recover during the first half of next year. And he suggested that for Bank of America, at least, the days of enormous dollar write-offs on loans for corporate buyouts and for complex mortgage investments would end soon. 
 Few analysts say the banking industry as a whole has turned the corner. Nearly every major institution is wrestling with surging losses tied to real estate, credit card and construction loans. But investors are starting to recognize that the losses may not be as severe as they had initially feared. They are also realizing that banks may have the earnings power to offset bad loans and absorb further write-downs. 
 ''It is too early to say things are getting better, but this is coming off extreme fears,'' said Mark Fitzgibbon, the director of research at Sandler O'Neill & Partners in New York. 
 Financial shares have swung erratically during the last week and a half as the Bush administration moved to bolster the nation's two largest mortgage finance companies, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and federal regulators seized a large California lender, IndyMac Bancorp. But the sector roared back late last week after Wells Fargo, JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup reported strong results. 
 Bank of America has another reason for optimism: The Countrywide Financial Corporation, the troubled mortgage lender it recently acquired, is now expected to turn profit this year, Bank of America said Monday. When the acquisition was announced in January, Bank of America said the deal would have no impact on earnings this year.
 Still, investors fear that losses from Countrywide's $111 billion loan portfolio could spiral higher, and that Bank of America could be saddled with billions of dollars in litigation costs stemming from Countrywide's business practices. 
 But Mr. Lewis said on Monday that given Bank of America's current analysis of the environment, he was confident that Countrywide's losses would total about $18.9 billion. Some analysts have previously estimated they could reach $30 billion or more. 
 Mr. Lewis also told investors that Bank of America's dividend was safe for now. And with about $26 billion in unrecognized gains related to its ownership stake in China Construction Bank, Bank of America executives said they felt good about their company's financial position. 
 While Mr. Lewis has struck a more optimistic note than several other bank chiefs, he said in an interview that he was trying to be ''realistic.'' 
 ''Even what we think would be reasonable comments are thought to be Pollyanna-ish'' in today's bearish environment, he said. ''The psychology in the market is worse than things really are.''
 Even so, Bank of America's credit losses are rising sharply. On Monday, the bank said that it would set aside $2.2 billion more to cover future losses tied to real estate, credit card and construction loans. The bank is also experiencing heavy losses from loans made to small-business customers. And though losses might peak in the coming quarters, many investors expect them to remain high for some time. 
 Bank of America still has several billion dollars' worth of buyout loans to sell, and some Wall Street analysts worry the bank has been slow to mark down the values of those loans on its books. The bank took write-offs of $64 million on buyout loans and an additional $645 million on complex mortgage investments it could not sell. 
 Recent acquisitions are likely to keep Mr. Lewis from pursuing another blockbuster deal in the near future. Bank of America has its hands full integrating Countrywide and LaSalle Bank, a Midwest lender it bought last year, and is brushing up against a federal cap on deposits. 
 ''The focus now is on profits sequentially and building our capital back to our targets. It's an inward focus on one sense,'' Mr. Lewis said. ''We are actually having great success in the marketplace given that others are so inwardly focused.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''We have a ray of optimism now,'' said Bank of America's chief executive, Kenneth D. Lewis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARMANDO ARORIZO/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (68%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (94%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); SANDLER O'NEILL + PARTNERS LP (63%); ONEWEST BANK FSB (61%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (94%); BAC (LSE) (94%); 8648 (TSE) (94%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (61%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



555 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 538 words

 BODY:
HEALTH EXAM Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., below, said banking regulators were combing the books of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as the Bush administration hopes to persuade Congress to approve a plan to bolster the companies. 
 WORKING WOMEN Women are dropping out of the work force, statistics show, and economists are suggesting that they are being sidelined by hard times. [A1.]
 FORD'S NEW FOCUS The Ford Motor Company is expected to accelerate its shift to smaller vehicles by converting three of its North American assembly plants from trucks to cars. [C1.] 
 PROXY FIGHT ENDS Carl C. Icahn, the activist investor, agreed to drop his fight to replace Yahoo's directors in exchange for three seats on the board. [C1.]
 DISAPPOINTMENT In a new study, Vytorin, a cholesterol drug sold by Merck and Schering-Plough, did not reduce cardiovascular deaths in a class of patients it was expected to help. [C1.]
 WEB-BASED MEETINGS As travel costs rise and technology becomes more practical and affordable, companies are rethinking the face-to-face meeting. [C8.] 
 SEE IT, BUY IT TiVo will introduce a ''product purchase'' feature in partnership with Amazon.com that will offer links to buy products promoted on commercials and talk shows. [C1.]
 News anchors on the Fox affiliate in Las Vegas sit with cups of McDonald's iced coffee on their desks, a promotion that raises questions about conflicts of interest. Advertising. [C1.]
 INDECENCY FINE REJECTED A federal appeals court overturned a decision to fine CBS for broadcasting a brief flash of Janet Jackson's breast during the 2004 Super Bowl broadcast. [C1.]
 WEAK RESPONSE The underwriters of a share sale by Britain's largest mortgage lender, HBOS, were unable to sell more than half of the shares. [C2.]
 GREATER MARKET SHARE Apple's net income in its third quarter increased 31 percent, and executives hinted that they would price Apple products with an eye to getting more market share in the future. [C3.]
 LOWER EARNINGS The American Express Company said its second-quarter profit dropped 38 percent, well below the forecast of Wall Street analysts, as consumer spending slowed. [C3.]
 DEEPER TARIFF CUT Facing the possibility of another collapse in trade talks, the European Union offered to reduce its farm tariffs by 60 percent as part of a new global commerce pact. [C3.]
 BEATING EXPECTATIONS Bank of America reported a $3.4 billion second-quarter profit, a 44 percent decline from the same period a year earlier, but higher than most forecasts. [C4.]
 EXECUTIVE DEPARTURE Citigroup said that Michael S. Klein, who had been at the bank for 23 years and most recently led its institutional clients group, left to pursue other opportunities. [C4.]
 BANK LAWSUIT BankAtlantic Bancorp of Fort Lauderdale sued a Wall Street analyst, saying that a report issued by the analyst defamed the bank by suggesting that it might fail. [C5.]
 BIOTECH BUYOUT The Swiss drug maker Roche Holding offered about $43.7 billion to acquire the 44 percent of Genentech that it did not already own. [C6.]
 MISERY LOVES COMPANY Airline passengers may be frustrated, but they also tend to see flight crews as fellow victims and spare the hostility. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [C8.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); MARKET SHARE (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (85%); COMPANY EARNINGS (85%); WOMEN (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); NETWORK TELEVISION (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); STATISTICS (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (69%); CHOLESTEROL (69%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (64%); AGRICULTURE (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); LITIGATION (64%); EUROPEAN UNION (63%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (53%); APPEALS COURTS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (84%); APPLE INC (81%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (63%); BBX CAPITAL CORP (60%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); AMAZON.COM INC (55%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (81%); AXP (NYSE) (63%); BBX (NYSE) (60%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (92%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (92%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (81%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (81%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (81%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (81%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (63%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (60%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (60%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



556 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Fall at American Express, and Its Shares Suffer

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The American Express Company, one of the world's flagship credit card issuers, reported sharply lower quarterly earnings Monday, offering fresh evidence of the financial distress that many American consumers are experiencing. 
 Profit from continuing operations in the three-month period that ended June 30 was $655 million, or 56 cents a share, down from year-ago earnings of just over $1 billion, or 86 cents a share. That 37 percent decline came despite a healthy gain in postinterest revenue, which was $7.5 billion, up from $6.9 billion a year ago.
 American Express stock plummeted on the news. It fell more than 3 percent, to $40.90 a share, during the trading day but plunged 11 percent, to $36.40 a share, in after-hours trading.
 The explanation for the disappointing results was simple and stark: more people are defaulting on their credit card loans.
 ''Credit indicators deteriorated beyond our expectations,'' the chairman and chief executive, Kenneth I. Chenault, said. The economic environment confronting the company had weakened significantly since January and grew sharply worse in June, Mr. Chenault continued.
 Moreover, he warned that the company expected that loan write-offs would continue to climb for the rest of the year, requiring it to set aside more money to cover those potential losses. 
 Recognizing the worsening state of consumer finances, the company added $600 million to its credit reserves for domestic lending. It also cut its estimate of the fair market value of its stake in credit card loans that have been packaged and sold as asset-backed securities, trimming $136 million from prior estimates.
 Mr. Chenault offered a bleak assessment of the current situation, saying that the fallout from a weaker domestic economy ''accelerated during June, with consumer confidence dropping, unemployment rates moving sharply higher and home prices declining at the fastest rate in decades.''
 But the addition to the company's lending reserves -- which slashed the quarterly domestic credit-card profit to just $21 million from $580 million a year ago -- also leaves the company with the strongest cushion for loan defaults it has had in the last three years, he said. Total loan-loss reserves are now $1.9 billion, up from $977 million a year ago.
 Mr. Chenault had warned late last month that the company would not meet previous earnings estimates because its credit card business was deteriorating more than expected. 
 The extent of that deterioration is significant. Applying industry standards, the company reported that its net loan write-off rate was 5.3 percent in the quarter, up from 4.3 percent in the first three months of the year -- and steeply higher than the 2.9 percent of a year ago.
 Those numbers reflect the impact of packaging those loans for sale as asset-backed securities. Eliminating that adjustment, as generally accepted accounting rules require, the quarterly rate was 7.1 percent, up from 5.5 percent in the previous quarter and 3.7 percent a year ago.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The chairman, Kenneth I. Chenault, at the Allen & Company conference in Idaho. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); HOME PRICES (64%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (98%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (98%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (98%)

PERSON: KENNETH I CHENAULT (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



557 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1520 words

HEADLINE: If You Have a Problem, Ask Everyone

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN

 BODY:
John Davis, a chemist in Bloomington, Ill., knows about concrete. For example, he knows that if you keep concrete vibrating it won't set up before you can use it. It will still pour like a liquid.
 Now he has applied that knowledge to a seemingly unrelated problem thousands of miles away. He figured out that devices that keep concrete vibrating can be adapted to keep oil in Alaskan storage tanks from freezing. The Oil Spill Recovery Institute of Cordova, Alaska, paid him $20,000 for his idea. 
 The chemist and the institute came together through InnoCentive, a company that links organizations (seekers) with problems (challenges) to people all over the world (solvers) who win cash prizes for resolving them. The company gets a posting fee and, if the problem is solved, a ''finders fee'' equal to about 40 percent of the prize. 
 The process, according to John Seely Brown, a theorist of information technology and former director of the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center, reflects ''a huge shift in popular culture, from consuming to participating'' enabled by the interactivity so characteristic of the Internet. It is sometimes called open-source science, taking the name from open-source software in which the source code, or original programming, is made public to encourage others to work on improving it. 
 The approach is catching on. Today, would-be innovators can sign up online to compete for prizes for feats as diverse as landing on the Moon (space.xprize.org/lunar-lander-challenge) and inventing artificial meat (www.peta.org/feat--in--vitro--contest.asp). 
 This year, researchers at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute and the University of Washington began recruiting computer gamers to an online competition, named Foldit, aimed at unraveling one of the knottiest problems of biology -- how proteins fold (http://fold.it). 
 And in a report last year, a panel appointed by the National Research Council recommended that the National Science Foundation, the major government financing agency for physical science research, offer prizes of $200,000 to $2 million ''in diverse areas'' as a first step in a major program ''to encourage more complex innovations'' addressing economic, social and other challenges. (The report is available at http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record--id=11816). 
 Senator John McCain of Arizona, the presumptive Republican nominee for president, has proposed that the government offer $300 million to whoever invents a battery compact enough, powerful enough and cheap enough to replace fossil fuels.
 Offering prizes for scientific achievements is hardly new. ''It has been around for centuries,'' said Karim R. Lakhani, a professor at Harvard Business School who has studied InnoCentive. One early example was the work of John Harrison, the 18th-century clockmaker who, in response to a prize offered by the British Parliament, solved the problem of determining longitude at sea by inventing a clock that would keep good time even in heavy weather.
 But, Dr. Lakhani said, ''most laboratories, most R & D endeavors still work on the premise 'we can accumulate and make sense of all the knowledge that is relevant.' The open-source models and a model like InnoCentive show that other approaches can help.''
 Dwayne Spradlin, president and chief executive of InnoCentive, said in an interview that the company had solved 250 challenges, for prizes typically in the $10,000 to $25,000 range. According to the Web site (www.innocentive.com), the achievements include a compound for skin tanning, a method of preventing snack chip breakage and a mini-extruder in brick-making. 
 ''Odds are one or more products in your home has been innovated in our network,'' Mr. Spradlin said. ''Procter & Gamble has products that were innovated on the InnoCentive network.'' 
 InnoCentive began in 2000 as e.Lilly, an in-house innovation ''incubator'' at the pharmaceutical giant Eli Lilly, Mr. Spradlin said, with the company posting problems that its employees had been unable to solve. From the beginning the results were good, he said. ''Most of our companies tell us they have a one-third or better solve rate on their problems and that is more cost-effective than anything they could have done internally.''
 The company says solvers come from 175 countries. More than a third have doctorates, Mr. Spradlin said, and while motivated by money, they also have a desire to solve ''problems that matter.'' 
 The company, with offices in Waltham, Mass., has a staff of scientists who work with seekers and solvers, reviewing challenges to make sure they are clear and detailed, and guiding would-be solvers who may have a solution.
 That specificity is crucial to InnoCentive's operation, people who have studied the company say. ''If you say, 'find me a cure for cancer' it may not work,'' Dr. Lakhani said. But if problems can be ''decomposed'' into what he called modular questions, like ''find me a biomarker for this condition, these questions may be more tractable.'' 
 The idea that solutions can come from anywhere, and from people with seemingly unrelated work, is another key. Dr. Lakhani said his study of InnoCentive found that ''the further the problem was from the solver's expertise, the more likely they were to solve it,'' often by applying specialized knowledge or instruments developed for another purpose. 
 For example, he said, the brain might be thought of as a biological system, but ''certain brain problems may not be solvable by taking a biological approach. You may want to cast it as an electrical engineering approach. An electrical engineer will come in and say, 'Oh, here's the answer for you.' They have not thought of themselves as being neuroscientists but now they can approach the problem from the point of view of electrical engineering.''
 The oil-flow problem was solved by an outsider, said Scott Pegau, its research program manager. If it could easily have been solved ''by people within the industry, it would have been,'' he said. Instead, Mr. Davis approached it with knowledge he picked up at a friend's concrete business.
 One critical element is encouraging organizations to take novel innovation approaches in the first place. That was the task that drew the Rockefeller Foundation to the company, said Maria Blair, an associate vice president there. 
 Ms. Blair said the foundation was nearing the end of an 18-month pilot program after which the success of the partnership would be assessed. Anecdotal evidence so far suggests the arrangement can be useful, she said, citing as an example a challenge to devise a reliable, durable solar-powered light source that could function as a flashlight and as general room illumination.
 ''The solver ended up being a scientist from New Zealand,'' she said, and his light is now being made in China.
 ''What we want to do,'' she added, ''is connect the nonprofits to the platform, to InnoCentive.'' 
 The nonprofits get a break on InnoCentive fees, Mr. Spradlin said, and Ms. Blair said the foundation could subsidize access to innovation platforms. But she said many nonprofit organizations had difficulty dealing with intellectual property rights and related issues. 
 InnoCentive deals with these issues, in part, by requiring winning solvers to transfer intellectual property rights to the seekers, whose identities are secret, before they can claim an award. 
 Dr. Lakhani said some companies worried that by posting information about their problems they risk giving valuable information to competitors. Another fear, he said, is that a solver will devise a useful solution, but refuse to turn it over for the prize or even patent it to keep it out of the hands of the organization that originally sought it. 
 ''We have not observed yet any of these kinds of games,'' Dr. Lakhani said. 
 By contrast, the Foldit contest is a volunteer effort. It began as Rosetta@home, a project using down-time of computers throughout the world to do the laborious calculations needed to determine the shapes of proteins, strings of amino acid crucial to the cells of every living thing. The way these molecules work depends on how the strings fold, but calculating the folding is, as the Foldit researchers put it, ''one of the pre-eminent challenges of biology.'' 
 In Foldit, players will compete online to design proteins, and researchers will test designs to see if they are good candidates for use in drugs. The researchers who worked to design it say results will also be interesting because people's intuition for protein folding does not seem necessarily to be tied to formal training or laboratory experience.
 ''Our ultimate goal is to have ordinary people play the game and eventually be candidates for winning the Nobel Prize,'' said Zoran Popovic, a computer scientist and engineer at the University of Washington.
 Mr. Spradlin's goal for InnoCentive is at least as ambitious. By 2011, he hopes InnoCentive participants will have answered at least 10,000 challenges. 
 When companies and organizations have a problem, Mr. Spradlin said, ''I want us to be the first place they go.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CASTING A WIDE NET: Dwayne Spradlin, president of InnoCentive. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES )(F1)
PARTNERS: Maria Blair, an executive with the Rockefeller Foundation.(PHOTOGRAPHS HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
REVIEWED: Karim Lakhani has studied InnoCentive and its methods. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE KAGAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 OIL: John Davis had an idea for how to keep it unfrozen in storage tanks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE KAGAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH INSTITUTES (87%); SCIENCE FUNDING (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (74%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (72%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); OIL SPILLS (71%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (67%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (61%)

COMPANY: PALO ALTO RESEARCH CENTER (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BLOOMINGTON, IL, USA (73%) ALASKA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); EARTH'S MOON (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



558 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: Ford Is Betting the Future On Small, Efficient Cars

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich. 

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company, which devoted itself for nearly 20 years to putting millions of Americans into big pickup trucks and sport-utility vehicles, is about to drastically alter its focus to building more small cars.
 The struggling automaker, reacting to what it sees as a rapid and permanent shift in consumer tastes brought on by high gas prices, plans to unveil its new direction on Thursday, when it will report quarterly earnings.
 Among the changes, Ford is expected to announce that it will convert three of its North American assembly plants from trucks to cars, according to people familiar with the plans.
 And as part of the huge bet it is placing on the future direction of the troubled American auto industry, Ford will realign factories to manufacture more fuel-efficient engines and produce six of its next European car models for the United States market. 
 The company will also end speculation about its Mercury division by making the brand an integral part of its new small-car strategy, according to these people, who spoke on the condition that they not be quoted by name because of the timing of the official announcement on Thursday.
 The sweeping changes are the result of months of strategic discussions by Ford executives, and represent a dramatic response to the woes afflicting Detroit's automakers. 
 United States vehicle sales have slumped 10 percent so far this year, with Ford down 14 percent, and the industry is headed for its worst annual sales in more than a decade. 
 Moreover, $4-a-gallon gas and a weak economy have battered the market for big S.U.V.'s and pickups, and sent automakers scrambling to revamp their product lineups.
 No company has more at stake than Ford, which popularized the S.U.V. in the 1990s with its truck-based Explorer and led the boom in pickups with its best-selling F-series model.
 After losing $15.3 billon in 2006 and 2007 combined, Ford had hoped to stabilize its operations this year and return to profitability in 2009.
 But rising fuel prices and the collapsing truck market forced the company, the second-biggest United States automaker, to abandon its profit target in May and accelerate its shift to smaller vehicles.
 Since then, Ford's chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, has directed an unprecedented overhaul of the company's future products.
 Mr. Mulally, who joined the company from aircraft maker Boeing in 2006, is committed to reducing Ford's dependence on large vehicles, according to people familiar with his plans.
 ''We don't have a sustainable company if we don't do this,'' Mr. Mulally recently told members of his management team. 
 For at least a decade, about 60 percent of Ford's United States sales came from trucks and S.U.V.'s, compared to 40 percent from cars and car-based crossover vehicles. 
 Eight of the company's 14 plants in North America now build trucks, S.U.V.'s and full-sized vans.
 Those numbers are shifting rapidly as consumers turn away from large vehicles, and the chief goal internally is to make cars and crossovers the bulk of its product lineup to better align the company with market demand. 
 A Ford spokesman, Mark Truby, declined to comment Monday on the details of the company's plans.
 ''We said when we made our June announcement about accelerating our transformation plan that we would have more details to share when we report our second quarter financial results in July,'' he said.
 Industry analysts believe Ford cannot wait any longer to reshape its manufacturing operations and step up production of smaller cars.
 ''Trucks and S.U.V.'s have been so central to their strategy for so long, but the bottom line is that consumers have moved on,'' said David E. Cole, chairman of the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich.
 The sharp drop in vehicles sales this spring and summer has raised fresh concerns about the viability of Detroit's automakers.
 With its stock hovering around $10 a share and speculation growing about a possible bankruptcy filing, General Motors last week announced broad plans to cut costs and increase its cash reserves by $15 billion.
 Ford has already slashed more than 40,000 jobs in the past three years, and sold off three of its European luxury brands to raise money.
 But the company is now about to address its long-term, and increasingly precarious, reliance on big vehicles by transferring billions of dollars in product development and manufacturing costs into car programs.
 Ford is expected to convert three of its big assembly plants from truck-based products to cars, including its so-called Michigan Truck plant in Wayne, Mich., that builds Ford Expedition and Lincoln Navigator S.U.V.'s.
 The company plans to use the plant to increase its output of the Ford Focus, a compact car that has become one of its best sellers this year. Ford also plans to retool two of its V-8 engine plants to add production of more fuel-efficient 4-cylinder and V-6 engines.
 A large part of its future car lineup will be based on vehicles currently under development for the European market. By 2010, Ford plans to begin assembling six of its upcoming European car models in North America, starting with the Ford Fiesta subcompact.
 And while Ford has shed upscale brands like Land Rover and Jaguar, the company will keep the Mercury brand and use it as another distribution channel for small cars.
 Some analysts have speculated that Ford might abandon Mercury as it streamlines its overall operations.
 By shifting to smaller cars, Ford is attempting to reverse a strategy that generated big profits in the 1990s.
 The automaker, along with G.M. and Chrysler, created sport-utility vehicles to combat the popularity of cars made by Toyota and Honda.
 ''The baby-boom generation didn't want American cars,'' said John Wolkonowicz, an auto industry analyst with the forecasting firm Global Insight. ''But the Ford Explorer was the first family-friendly, four-door sport utility, and people bought it like crazy.''
 In the mid-1990s, Ford introduced its full-size, seven-passenger Expedition and Navigator S.U.V.'s, which were built on a pickup-truck chassis.
 The big vehicles got less than 15 miles a gallon of gas, but consumers hardly cared when gas was inexpensive. Other manufacturers followed suit, and the big S.U.V. became fashionable.
 Ford and other automakers earned up to $15,000 in profit on each full-size sport-utility vehicle. At the company's Michigan Truck plant, employees worked weekends to keep up with demand.
 ''It's hard to blame Ford for building vehicles that consumers wanted to buy,'' said Mr. Wolkonowicz.
 Cheap gas also fueled the astronomic growth of the pickup truck market. In 2004, Ford sold a record 939,000 full-size pickups, and nearly two-thirds of its overall sales in the United States were trucks, vans and S.U.V.'s.
 At the same time it invested in the growing truck market, Ford cut back spending on its cars. Its Taurus sedan, once the market leader, fell to a distant third behind the Toyota Camry and Honda Accord.
 While it concentrated on trucks, Ford fell out of step with larger market trends. In 2004, only 28 percent of its United States sales were cars, compared to 43 percent for the overall market.
 When Mr. Mulally was recruited as Ford's chief executive in September of 2006, he began questioning the company's dependence on pickups and S.U.V.'s.
 Ford managers said Mr. Mulally repeatedly referred to charts that showed large vehicles constituted only 15 percent of the global automotive market. Small cars, by comparison, made up 60 percent.
 At Mr. Mulally's urging, Ford embarked on a longer-term strategy to globalize its car platforms and expand its car lineup in the United States market.
 But the task took on greater urgency this spring, when rising gas prices drove consumers away from trucks in droves.
 Between January and June, pickups tumbled from 13 percent of the overall market to 8 percent, and unsold S.U.V.'s stacked up on dealer lots. The company announced wholesale cutbacks in truck production and the elimination of 15 percent of its white-collar workforce.
 Almost every day for the past three months, Mr. Mulally assembled his senior executives in his office to pore over future product plans. A consensus emerged to accelerate the switch to cars and further downsize truck production.
 The plans will begin to take effect later this year when production of the Expedition and Navigator is moved from the Michigan Truck plant to another factory in Kentucky.
 Then, in a move that symbolizes the company's overall change of direction, workers will quickly shift to making body panels for the Focus compact.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The subcompact Ford Fiesta is one of the European models the company will begin making in North America. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FORD OF EUROPE)(C1)
Ford's chief, Alan Mulally, is overhauling the product line. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB WIDDIS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 Vic Rista working on a Ford Expedition at a plant in Wayne, Mich. The company plans to make the Focus compact car there.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(C5) CHART: Shifting Gears: Pickup trucks, S.U.V.'s and vans made up the majority of Ford's sales from 1995 to 2007, well above the industry average. But with gas prices rising, Ford is planning to shift much of its production from trucks to cars and crossover vehicles.(Source: Ford Motor Co.) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); PICKUP TRUCKS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); NEW PRODUCTS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); AIRCRAFT MFG (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (68%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (98%); BOEING CO (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%)

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2008



559 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: War Crimes Arrest Bolsters Other Courts

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE and MARC LACEY

 BODY:
The arrest of Radovan Karadzic on Monday gave badly needed credibility to international war crimes tribunals that have struggled for years to bring fugitives to justice, according to former prosecutors, legal experts and human rights groups. 
 Mr. Karadzic will be the third high-profile figure to be brought before a United Nations-backed tribunal on war crimes charges in the last six years, following in the footsteps of President Charles Taylor of Liberia and the Yugoslav president, Slobodan Milosevic. 
 But Mr. Karadzic, who remained free for nearly 13 years, made a mockery of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, which in 1983 became the first such body established by the United Nations. 
 Although repeatedly seen in public when American and NATO forces entered Bosnia in 1996, he was not arrested, in part out of fear that seizing him could cause a violent backlash against NATO forces. Instead, the United States and the European Union tried to use economic and diplomatic pressure on Serbia to force his arrest. Until Monday, the policy appeared to be a failure.
 ''For international justice, this is a very good thing,'' Richard Dicker, director of Human Rights Watch's International Justice Program, said of the arrest, especially since Mr. Karadzic's evasion of the court for so long had come to ''personify impunity.'' 
 Other war crimes tribunals established by the United Nations have also come under fire. The International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda has been criticized as being hugely expensive, exceedingly slow and largely detached from the country itself. And the establishment of the International Criminal Court -- a permanent tribunal intended to prosecute war crimes globally -- was delayed for years by tortuous negotiations and fierce opposition from the Bush administration. 
 Luis Moreno Ocampo, the chief prosecutor for the International Criminal Court, called Mr. Karadzic's arrest a ''great achievement'' and predicted it would aid his efforts to prosecute war crimes in Darfur, including his widely-debated genocide case against the country's president, Omar Hassan al-Bashir of Sudan.
 Other legal experts agreed that Mr. Karadzic's arrest had the potential to significantly bolster the clout of the tribunals. 
 ''When Karadzic was indicted back in 1995, nobody really expected he'd ever actually get arrested,'' said Gary Bass, a professor of politics and international affairs at Princeton University and the author of ''Stay the Hand of Vengeance: The Politics of War Crimes Tribunals.''
 ''It's not clear how exactly Bashir could wind up in The Hague,'' he added, ''but the Karadzic example has got to make Bashir think hard.''
 Officials from the war crimes tribunals have argued that the United States and its allies have lacked the political will to make arrests or use diplomatic and economic measures to bring fugitives to justice. Economic sanctions, indictments and travel restrictions can all place small but steady pressure on individuals accused of war crimes and on their patrons.
 Critics of the tribunals' track records argue that Mr. Karadzic's arrest does not make up for more than a decade of inaction. The widely feared wartime leader was arrested while masquerading as a bearded practitioner of alternative medicine in Serbia. A man accused of overseeing the execution of 8,000 Bosnian Muslims in Srebrenica and the brutal siege of Sarajevo was giving lectures on new age medicine in local community centers. 
 The amount of time it took to pressure Serbia to arrest Mr. Karadzic shows how easy it is for states to defy and divide the international community. Similarly, Sudan has also flatly refused to turn over war crimes suspects.
 For years, many of survivors of the 1995 massacres in Srebrenica -- for which Mr. Karadzic was indicted on genocide charges -- mocked the Yugoslavia tribunal as a toothless and expensive show put on by the international community.
 ''Three thousand persons in Bosnia still unaccounted for,'' said Hasan Nuhanovic, whose father, mother and brother were killed in Srebrenica. ''The mortal remains of my mother and brother still not found.'' 
 Richard Goldstone, a South African jurist who served as the Yugoslavia tribunal's first chief prosecutor and indicted Mr. Karadzic in 1995, said it was critical that Serbian officials also arrest Mr. Karadzic's co-defendant, Gen. Ratko Mladic, who remains free and is believed to be hiding in Serbia as well. ''I just hope that Mladic is not that far behind,'' he said.
 Similarly, the international tribunal for Rwanda, created in 1995 in neighboring Tanzania, has secured the arrest of more than 70 people accused of high-level involvement in the mass killings of more than 800,000 Rwandans in 1994. Yet 13 accused kingpins have not been caught.
 The bulk of the defendants have been politicians, but there has been an array of others: journalists who helped fuel the slaughter; businessmen who helped finance it; members of the clergy who participated in it and even a musician, Simon Bikindi, who is accused of singing songs and giving speeches that promoted hatred and violence against Tutsis.
 But the tribunal's work has been slowed to a snail's pace by bureaucratic failings, the need for multiple translations and the shear complexity of the cases. In the tribunal's four courtrooms, six trials involving 19 people are taking place, the court reported in its latest submission to the United Nations, and two more are scheduled to commence. Four more cases are preparing for trial.
 The United Nations Security Council has urged the tribunal to end its trials this year and wind up all its work by 2010. But in May, the tribunal indicated in a report that those deadlines would likely slip.
 The effort, however, remains profoundly important for Africa, tribunal officials say. Ending the tribunal's work too early and not rounding up every last fugitive, they say, would destabilize a part of Africa where ethnic strife remains 14 years after the machetes and guns were laid down and Rwanda's lush soil was stained with blood. 
 Despite the burdened pace, the tribunal has some notable accomplishments. It secured the first genocide conviction against a head of government: former Prime Minister Jean Kambanda, who was found to have led the homegrown campaign to exterminate ethnic Tutsis and moderate Hutus. 
 The tribunal also helped establish the legal precedent that rape, which was widespread during the Rwandan massacre, can be a form of genocide to destroy a group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR CRIMES (94%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); INDICTMENTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); GENOCIDE (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ARMED FORCES (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL TRIBUNAL FOR THE FORMER YUGOSLAVIA (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (55%); UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL TRIBUNAL FOR RWANDA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SUDAN (92%); SERBIA (92%); LIBERIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); RWANDA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



560 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Harvest The Sun -- From Space

BYLINE: By O. GLENN SMITH. 
O. Glenn Smith is a former manager of science and applications experiments for the International Space Station at NASA's Johnson Space Center.

DATELINE: Houston 

 BODY:
 AS we face $4.50 a gallon gas, we also know that alternative energy sources -- coal, oil shale, ethanol, wind and ground-based solar -- are either of limited potential, very expensive, require huge energy storage systems or harm the environment. There is, however, one potential future energy source that is environmentally friendly, has essentially unlimited potential and can be cost competitive with any renewable source: space solar power. 
 Science fiction? Actually, no -- the technology already exists. A space solar power system would involve building large solar energy collectors in orbit around the Earth. These panels would collect far more energy than land-based units, which are hampered by weather, low angles of the sun in northern climes and, of course, the darkness of night. 
 Once collected, the solar energy would be safely beamed to Earth via wireless radio transmission, where it would be received by antennas near cities and other places where large amounts of power are used. The received energy would then be converted to electric power for distribution over the existing grid. Government scientists have projected that the cost of electric power generation from such a system could be as low as 8 to 10 cents per kilowatt-hour, which is within the range of what consumers pay now. 
 In terms of cost effectiveness, the two stumbling blocks for space solar power have been the expense of launching the collectors and the efficiency of their solar cells. Fortunately, the recent development of thinner, lighter and much higher efficiency solar cells promises to make sending them into space less expensive and return of energy much greater.
 Much of the progress has come in the private sector. Companies like Space Exploration Technologies and Orbital Sciences, working in conjunction with NASA's public-private Commercial Orbital Transportation Services initiative, have been developing the capacity for very low cost launchings to the International Space Station. This same technology could be adapted to sending up a solar power satellite system. 
 Still, because building the first operational space solar power system will be very costly, a practical first step would be to conduct a test using the International Space Station as a ''construction shack'' to house the astronauts and equipment. The station's existing solar panels could be used for the demonstration project, and its robotic manipulator arms could assemble the large transmitting antenna. While the station's location in orbit would permit only intermittent transmission of power back to Earth, a successful test would serve as what scientists call ''proof of concept.''
 Over the past 15 years, Americans have invested more than $100 billion, directly and indirectly, on the space station and supporting shuttle flights. With an energy crisis deepening, it's time to begin to develop a huge return on that investment. (And for those who worry that science would lose out to economics, there's no reason that work on space solar power couldn't go hand in hand with work toward a manned mission to Mars, advanced propulsion systems and other priorities of the space station.) 
 In fact, in a time of some skepticism about the utility of our space program, NASA should realize that the American public would be inspired by our astronauts working in space to meet critical energy needs here on Earth.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAUL DAVIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (93%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); SPACECRAFT (89%); SPACE STATIONS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ALCOHOLS (78%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ETHANOL (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (76%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (76%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (68%); ROBOTICS (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (93%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



561 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Prices of Food And Gas Take A Toll in Asia

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia 

 BODY:
While prices have been rising in the United States and Europe, the biggest increases are being felt in Asia, and countries like India and Vietnam are already having to deal with double-digit inflation. 
 Sharp rises in global food and oil prices are now spilling over into wages and broader measures of inflation across Asia, as the Asian Development Bank noted in a report released Tuesday. 
 Workers are demanding higher wages to cover their rising living costs, and companies are imposing higher prices for a wide range of goods to cover accelerating production costs. 
 ''The epicenter of the inflationary storm is really in Asia,'' said Cyd Tuano-Amador, the managing director of monetary policy at the Philippines Central Bank. 
 Higher inflation in Asia is also starting to contribute to higher prices in the United States. According to the Labor Department, prices for imports from Pacific Rim countries -- mostly Asian goods -- rose 2.7 percent in the 12 months through June, after falling 1.4 percent in the preceding 12 months. 
 Asia's central bankers, who are preparing for their annual gathering July 28 in Shanghai, have been unable to develop a united response to deal with the worst inflation threat in at least a decade. 
 In an interview Tuesday, Boediono, the governor of the Bank of Indonesia, called for a coordinated international move toward tighter monetary policy, including higher interest rates by the United States, so as to slow inflation. 
 In an era of global capital flows, so much excess money is now flowing through world markets that no single country can fight the international problem of inflation effectively by tightening its own monetary policy, Boediono said. (Like many Indonesians, he uses only one name.) 
 ''I don't think any one country, even as big as China or even the United States, would be able to stomach the adjustment'' of raising interest rates far enough to slow global inflation, he said. 
 World oil prices could fall by 30 percent if countries took coordinated action to reduce liquidity, he said. He attributed much of the recent rise in global commodity prices to excess money in circulation. 
 But Boediono said he was not recommending that Asian central banks sell any of their dollar reserves to put pressure on the United States to raise interest rates. Asian purchases of dollar-denominated securities, led by China's $1.8 trillion in foreign reserves, have played a central role in financing the American trade and government budget deficits and in holding down interest rates on mortgages during the recent American housing market decline. 
 Most central banks in Asia have been reluctant to give up any of their economic independence or challenge the United States by coordinating their monetary and currency policies, even as they fret about rising prices. 
 ''There is a legitimate concern about the recent developments on the inflation front,'' said Y. Venugopal Reddy, the governor of the Reserve Bank of India, in a speech late last month. ''Oil price increase is now a global problem, making inflation a problem for all countries, both developed and developing. Hence, our solutions to the problem will also be similar, but tailored to suit our conditions.'' 
 Zhou Xiaochuan, the governor of the People's Bank of China, said this month during a visit to Switzerland that an interest rate increase might be needed in China to combat inflation. While the rise in consumer prices slowed slightly in China last month, to 7.1 percent from 7.7 percent in May, inflation accelerated at the producer level, to 8.8 percent in June from 8.2 percent in May. 
 Ms. Tuano-Amador said the meeting in Shanghai was unlikely to produce any consensus on monetary policy coordination. ''I don't think that it's on the table right now,'' she said.'' 
 As the Asian Development Bank said in its report issued Tuesday in Singapore, inflation has risen across the region. ''The external economic outlook for emerging East Asia has dimmed amid prospects for slower growth, tighter credit conditions and higher inflation,'' the bank said. 
 The report also mentioned that ''heightened inflationary pressures will require more decisive tightening of monetary policies across much of emerging East Asia.'' 
 The initial reaction of many governments and private sector economists across Asia over the winter was to see price increases as largely confined to food and energy -- and therefore not requiring monetary policy responses like interest rate increases. But broader inflation trends are now starting to become apparent. 
 The core inflation rate, excluding food and energy, accelerated in Indonesia to 8.7 percent in May from 6.3 percent in December. During the same period, the core rates rose in May in the Philippines and Singapore to 6.2 percent and 6.8 percent, respectively, from 2.6 percent and 3.5 percent. 
 Strong demand for Indonesia's many commodities, from coal to palm oil, have insulated it somewhat from slowing growth elsewhere. But rising prices are starting to take a toll, particularly on the poor. 
 Halimah, a teacher, echoed the unhappiness of many Indonesians as she bought milk on Sunday at a street market in Karawang, a town in west-central Java. ''It has been very difficult for us, especially on kerosene, cooking oil and eggs -- they have been rising in price dramatically,'' she said. 
 Central banks in the region have been struggling for months to respond to the Federal Reserve's low interest rates. Low American interest rates are making it harder for the region's central banks to raise their rates; doing so would make them more attractive for international investors and could produce rapid appreciation in their currencies. 
 Stronger currencies would lower the cost in local currency terms of importing oil and other goods. But stronger currencies would also reduce the competitiveness of exports at a time when demand for Asian goods is weakening in the United States. 
 Boediono said he saw some room for the Indonesian rupiah to rise against the dollar, but that the timing could not be forced on his country. ''Some orderly appreciation,'' he said, ''would be helpful for us.'' 
 Boediono said that the Federal Reserve should raise short-term interest rates, and that his experience during the Asian financial crisis made him believe that the Fed could act without causing excessive damage to the American banking system. 
 ''I don't think a move of 25 or 50 basis points,'' or 0.25 or 0.5 percentage points, ''would collapse it,'' he said. 
 Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, told the Senate Banking Committee in testimony on July 15 that the United States economy faces risks of a further slowdown and higher inflation. Analysts interpreted his comments as meaning it was unlikely that the Fed would either raise or lower interest rates soon. The target for the overnight borrowing rate among banks, or federal funds rate, stands at 2 percent. 
 Boediono spoke in an interview in his elegant, wood-paneled offices, where the international decor and even the styling of the paneling bear a striking resemblance to the governors' suites at the Federal Reserve's headquarters in Washington. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Neswi, selling gas in Karawang, Indonesia, complained of slow sales. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEMAL JUFRI/IMAJI, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C1)
Nunung Julaeha, a 33-year-old shop owner in Karawang, Indonesia, has been forced to raise prices for nearly all of her products. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEMAL JUFRI/IMAJI, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Boediono, the governor of the Bank of Indonesia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NG SWAN TI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); COST OF LIVING (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); MONEY SUPPLY (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); CURRENCIES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); IMPORT PRICES (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (69%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (69%); MORTGAGE RATES (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (72%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); ATB (ASX) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (77%) EAST CHINA (79%) ASIA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); INDONESIA (94%); CHINA (93%); EUROPE (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



562 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Yahoo's Revenue Rises a Bit, but Profit Falls 19%

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
With the slowing economy taking a toll on the online advertising business, Yahoo said Tuesday that its net income dropped by nearly 19 percent in the second quarter from a year ago as revenue grew at a sluggish 6 percent rate. 
 Analysts said the results would do little to improve Yahoo's negotiating position with Microsoft, which has tried to buy all or part of the company. ''This is not a quarter where they can go back to Microsoft and say they deserve a higher price,'' said Youssef H. Squali, an analyst with Jefferies & Company. ''And Microsoft can't come to them and say the business is falling out of bed and we can pick you up for a song.'' 
 Jerry Yang, the co-founder and chief executive, said he was pleased with the company's performance, especially in light of what we described as ''extraordinary events,'' including Microsoft's takeover attempts and the proxy fight with the investor Carl C. Icahn, which was settled Monday. 
 ''The indicators of Yahoo's progress are promising,'' Mr. Yang said in a conference call with investors. 
 The results fell slightly short of analysts' lowered expectations. But to the relief of investors, Yahoo left financial forecasts for the remainder of the year largely unchanged despite ongoing economic uncertainty. 
 Yahoo said that net income for the quarter was $131 million, or 9 cents a share, compared to $161 million, or 11 cents a share, a year ago. On average, Wall Street analysts had expected Yahoo to report net income of 11 cents a share. Yahoo said its profit was hit by $22 million in costs associated with the negotiations with Microsoft, the proxy fight and related lawsuits. 
 Revenue was $1.8 billion, compared with $1.7 billion in the same quarter last year. Net revenue, which excludes commissions to advertising partners, was $1.35 billion, up 8 percent, from $1.24 billion a year ago. On average analysts expected net revenue to be $1.37 billion.
 By comparison, rival Google reported last week that its revenue for the second quarter grew at 39 percent.
 During the conference call, Yahoo's president, Susan Decker, highlighted the importance of keeping Yahoo's search advertising and display advertising business together. Noting that Yahoo's share of search queries in the United States had inched up in the past two months -- after months of declines -- she said that she believed Yahoo could succeed in the search business, where it is a distant second to Google.
 Her remarks appeared aimed at persuading shareholders that the company was right in rejecting recent offers by Microsoft to buy Yahoo's search business. 
 Despite the truce with Mr. Icahn, who agreed to drop his fight for control of the company in exchange for three seats on an expanded Yahoo board, Yahoo shares remain in a slump and the company is facing mounting questions about its plans to reignite growth in the wake of its failed talks with Microsoft. 
 Earlier this year, Yahoo executives gave a rosy three-year forecast for growth, which few investors believe the company will be able to meet. And many shareholders, including Mr. Icahn, believe that the best course of action is for Yahoo to resume negotiations with Microsoft.
 On Tuesday, Yahoo's shares closed at $21.40, down 1.25 percent, and far below the $33 a share that Microsoft offered for the company on May 3. After Yahoo rejected that offer as too low -- it wanted at least $37 a share -- Microsoft withdrew it and said it was no longer interested in buying all of Yahoo. In the face of growing shareholder discontent, Yahoo has said recently that it would consider selling itself for $33 a share. 
 Yahoo shares rose to $21.89 in after-hours trading following the company's financial report. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jerry Yang, Yahoo's chief, said progress was ''promising.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK WILKING/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); TAKEOVERS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); LITIGATION (67%); CONFERENCE CALLS (66%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (94%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (71%); GOOGLE INC (58%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (94%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%)

PERSON: JERRY YANG (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



563 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1536 words

HEADLINE: Slow Food Savors Big Moment

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
AT the end of the summer, the gastronomic organization called Slow Food USA will host a little party for more than 50,000 people in San Francisco.
 To get things ready, the mayor let the group dig up the lawn in front of City Hall and plant a quarter-acre garden. It will be the centerpiece of the festival, ambitiously named Slow Food Nation. 
 Events will pop up all around the city over Labor Day weekend. Fifteen architects have volunteered to build elaborate pavilions dedicated to things like pickles, coffee and salami. Lecture halls have been booked, politicians invited and dinner parties planned. Nearly $2 million has been raised. 
 And for the first time in its 10-year history, the notoriously finicky organization has embraced corporate partners like Whole Foods, Anolon cookware and the Food Network. 
 The Slow Food faithful say they want the festival to be the Woodstock of food, a profound event where a broad band of people will see that delicious, sustainably produced food can be a prism for social, ecological and political change. 
 They also realize that it may be their best chance to prove that Slow Food, as a movement, is not just one big wine tasting with really hard to find cheeses that you weren't invited to. 
 The American wing of the Slow Food movement, which began in Italy in 1986, has a tendency to polarize people. When it first took root here in 1998, some people were drawn to its philosophy, while others were put off by what they saw as elitism and an inflated sense of importance. 
 Slow Food's leaders, the chef Alice Waters chief among them, bristle at the criticism. But most acknowledge that the organization did not translate well to an American audience. As a result, it has never had as much cultural or political impact as its parent group in Europe. 
 Now, they say, the organization is getting a makeover. And the festival in San Francisco will be the perfect place to show off a more inclusive and more politically attuned Slow Food USA.
 ''I don't know if it's going to be the youthful, happening Woodstock they want it to be, but it certainly has the potential,'' said Corby Kummer, a food columnist, book author and Slow Food board member. ''It will be a failure if it is only well-dressed people over 35 from the Bay Area treating it as if it's another Ferry Plaza Farmers Market'' -- a reference to the place where well-fed San Franciscans and celebrity farmers chat over perfect peaches and soft, ripe cheese. 
 Carlo Petrini, a charismatic Italian who writes about food and wine, started Slow Food with friends who shared his notion that left wing politics and gastronomic pleasure could be happily married. The international organization has grown to 86,000 members and become an industry in Mr. Petrini's hometown, Bra, Italy. There are Slow Food restaurants, a university and a hotel. You can buy a cashmere truffle-hunting vest embroidered with the Slow Food snail logo at the main office in Bra.
 The group's budget is about $39 million, and subsidized by the Italian government. Much of the organization's work involves identifying traditional foods, like Ethiopian white honey or Amalfi sfusato lemons, and designing ways to help the people who produce them.
 Its philosophy -- that food is about much more than cooking and eating -- is often hammered home by Mr. Petrini on his frequent trips around the world.
 ''I always say a gastronome who isn't an environmentalist is just stupid, and I say an environmentalist who isn't a gastronome is just sad,'' he said through an interpreter in an interview last year.
 In the late 1990s, Mr. Petrini's ideas were quickly embraced by people on America's coasts who were fans of farmers' markets, local food and a slower, more reflective way of life. Ms. Waters, who had spent more than two decades advocating delicious organic food and the small farms that grew it, was among them.
 ''I heard him for the first time and I just fell for him,'' she said. ''I thought, oh, my God. We are soul mates.''
 Most of Slow Food's achievements in its first years in the United States were intellectual. It easily won new converts like the authors Eric Schlosser and Michael Pollan to its critique of the status quo in American food. 
 ''Slow Food came on as a way to influence the system through small, enlightened groups,'' said Bill Niman, the California rancher. ''For me, any effort or movement that helps motivate people to ask where does this come from and where is it raised is very important.''
 Slow Food gathered critics quickly, too. Those who embraced the Eurocentric Slow Food model struck some as cliquish and snobby. 
 ''I do slow food. Why should I join it?'' said John Scharffenberger, who made his name producing sparkling wine and chocolate in Northern California. ''But I think it is a really good way to promote Italian food.''
 Outside of the tight culinary circles of San Francisco and New York, people seemed to have a hard time figuring out exactly what Slow Food did. Some farmers and producers perceived its members as dilettantes who traveled the countryside ''discovering'' Berkshire pigs and heirloom tomatoes and old apple orchards.
 Steven Shaw, a food writer and a founder of the food Web site eGullet, said Slow Food succeeded early on because it mixed hedonism with a leftist political agenda. But, he contends, its strong antitechnology, antiglobalization views are lost on the average member.
 ''Most people I know who go to Slow Food events are the culinary equivalents of the guys in college who go to protests to meet girls,'' he said. ''They couldn't care less about the ideology.''
 In the spring, several bloggers faced off over charges that the international organization was nothing but a collection of jet-setting food theorists. Brahm Ahmadi, the executive director of the People's Grocery, a community organization that works to get healthy food into poor parts of Oakland, Calif., wrote in his blog that Slow Food lacked ''economic and racial diversity.'' 
 Katrina Heron, the chairwoman of the board that is running the Slow Food Nation festival, said Slow Food USA is trying to become more inclusive and develop an identity distinct from the parent group. ''It had an awkward landing from the beginning,'' she said. ''There was kind of this problem in translation.''
 Ms. Heron believes Slow Food Nation will be a turning point. Festival leaders have courted Mr. Ahmadi and others to lead panels on hunger, race and poverty. The group has also hired a ''justice director'' to make the conference more diverse.
 She and other Slow Food leaders say that many of the 200 United States convivia -- the term the organization uses instead of chapters -- are doing important work in places where like-minded people might not otherwise have found one another. There are five chapters in Iowa, for example, including one in Des Moines started by Neil Hamilton, a gentleman farmer and director of the Agricultural Law Center at Drake University Law School.
 ''Farmers' market vendors and farmers are not always the most organized,'' he said. ''Slow Food has provided an organizational place for all these folks to come together and support each other.''
 Slow Food has helped build gardens in schoolyards, and it came to the rescue in post-Katrina Louisiana, raising about $50,000 to help restaurants reopen, farmers replant and shrimpers buy new equipment, among other things. New Orleans's premier farmers' market reopened a couple of months after the storm, largely through the sheer will of Slow Food members.
 Slow Food also helped popularize the word ''heritage,'' now commonly used to describe certain breeds of pigs and even fruit. The group's effort in 2001 to help a breeder sell his rare, old-fashioned turkeys -- he called them heritage turkeys -- became a cause celebre that Thanksgiving.
 But leaders realize Slow Food USA must do more if it is going to grow much beyond the 16,000 members it has now and build enough political muscle to help reform the food system.
 ''To change consumer buying habits and to get people to think differently about where their food comes from is one thing,'' Ms. Heron said. ''But that's not the main event. The success of Slow Food Nation depends on political leaders taking up this issue.''
 Meanwhile, Slow Food USA itself is trying to change, said Erika Lesser, the executive director of the national organization, which is based in Brooklyn.
 ''This is really a coming-of-age moment for us where we are trying to define who we are in the United States,'' she said.
 To that end, Slow Food USA is adding college chapters, reorganizing its internal structure and dropping the term convivium in favor of the more American-sounding chapter.
 Even Ms. Waters, who is a vice president of Slow Food's international board, realizes that her beloved cause has to invite some new guests to the table.
 And it appears many of them will be showing up on Labor Day weekend.
 ''All I can say is, there are enough really beautiful people coming for it to be bigger than the sum of its parts,'' Ms. Waters said. ''If 60,000 people do come, and we're all in front of City Hall, and it's a beautiful night, well, who knows what could happen.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TALL FOOD: Volunteers with pole beans to be planted in Slow Food's garden in San Francisco.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
FOODSTOCK?: Alice Waters with Mayor Gavin Newsom.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Carlo Petrini started Slow Food in Italy in 1986.(PHOTOGRAPH BY THE TIMES OF INDIA/GETTY IMAGES FOUNDER)(pg. F7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (89%); CHEESE (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); CITIES (77%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (74%); WRITERS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



564 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Arrest Helps Tribunals Prosecuting War Crimes

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE and MARC LACEY

 BODY:
The arrest of Radovan Karadzic on Monday gave badly needed credibility to international war crimes tribunals that have struggled for years to bring fugitives to justice, according to former prosecutors, legal experts and human rights groups. 
 Mr. Karadzic will be the third high-profile figure to be brought before a United Nations-backed tribunal on war crimes charges in the past six years, following in the footsteps of Charles Taylor of Liberia and Slobodan Milosevic, the former Yugoslav president. 
 But Mr. Karadzic, who remained free for nearly 13 years, made a mockery of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, which in 1993 became the first such body established by the United Nations. 
 Although repeatedly seen in public when American and NATO forces entered Bosnia in 1996, he was not arrested, in part because of fears that seizing him could provoke a violent reaction against NATO forces.
 Instead, the United States and the European Union tried to use economic and diplomatic pressure on Serbia to force his arrest. Until Monday, that policy appeared to be a failure.
 ''For international justice, this is a very good thing,'' Richard Dicker, director of Human Rights Watch's International Justice Program, said of the arrest, especially because Mr. Karadzic's evasion of the court for so long had come to ''personify impunity.'' 
 Other war crimes tribunals established by the United Nations have come under fire. The International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda has been criticized as being hugely expensive, exceedingly slow and largely detached from the country itself. And the establishment of the International Criminal Court -- a permanent tribunal intended to prosecute war crimes globally -- was delayed for years by tortuous negotiations and fierce opposition from the Bush administration. 
 Luis Moreno-Ocampo, the International Criminal Court's chief prosecutor, called Mr. Karadzic's arrest a ''great achievement'' and predicted that it would aid his efforts to prosecute war crimes in the Darfur region of Sudan, including his genocide case against Sudan's president, Omar Hassan al-Bashir.
 Other legal experts agreed that Mr. Karadzic's arrest had the potential to significantly bolster the power of the tribunals. 
 ''It's not clear how exactly Bashir could wind up in The Hague,'' said Gary Bass, a Princeton professor who wrote a book on the politics of war crimes tribunals, but ''the Karadzic example has got to make Bashir think hard.''
 Officials from the war crimes tribunals have argued that the United States and its allies have lacked the political will to make arrests or use diplomatic and economic measures to bring fugitives to justice. 
 Critics also argue that the amount of time it took to put pressure on Serbia to arrest Mr. Karadzic shows how easy it is for states to defy and divide the international community. Sudan has flatly refused to turn over war crimes suspects.
 For years, many of survivors of the 1995 massacre in Srebrenica -- in which Mr. Karadzic was indicted -- mocked the Yugoslavia tribunal as a toothless and expensive show put on by the international community.
 To rectify that, Richard Goldstone, a South African jurist who was the Yugoslavia tribunal's first chief prosecutor and indicted Mr. Karadzic in 1995, said it was critical that Serbian officials also arrest Mr. Karadzic's co-defendant, Gen. Ratko Mladic, who is believed to be hiding in Serbia as well. ''I just hope that Mladic is not that far behind,'' he said.
 Similarly, the Rwanda tribunal, created in 1995 in neighboring Tanzania, has secured the arrest of more than 70 people accused of high-level involvement in the mass killings of more than 800,000 Rwandans in 1994. Yet 13 people accused of being architects of the massacres have not been caught.
 Even so, the tribunal secured the first genocide conviction against a head of a government: former Prime Minister Jean Kambanda, who led the campaign to exterminate ethnic Tutsi and moderate Hutu.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR CRIMES (94%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (92%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); POLITICS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); GENOCIDE (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ARMED FORCES (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL TRIBUNAL FOR THE FORMER YUGOSLAVIA (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (55%); UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL TRIBUNAL FOR RWANDA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%) SUDAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA (93%); LIBERIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); RWANDA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



565 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Woes Afflicting Mortgage Giants Raise Loan Rates

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Mortgage rates are rising because of the troubles at the loan finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, threatening to deal another blow to the faltering housing market. 
 Even as policy makers rushed to support the two companies, home loan rates approached their highest levels in five years. 
 The average interest rate for 30-year fixed-rate mortgages rose to 6.71 percent on Tuesday, from 6.44 percent on Friday, according to HSH Associates, a publisher of consumer rates. The average rate for so-called jumbo loans, which cannot be sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, was 7.8 percent, the highest since December 2000. 
 Loan rates are rising because of concern in the financial markets about the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which own or guarantee nearly half of the nation's $12 trillion mortgage market. The federal government has proposed a rescue, and has urged Congress to approve it quickly. 
 But bond investors, worried that the companies may not be as big a support to the market as they have been, are driving up interest rates on securities backed by home loans. That added cost is being passed on to consumers through the mortgage markets. For a $400,000 loan, the increase in 30-year rates in the last few days would add $71 to a monthly bill, or $852 a year.
 The rise in rates is of greatest concern for homeowners whose mortgages required them to pay only the interest on their loans for the first few years. If such borrowers are unable to refinance into lower-cost loans, many of them will face the prospect of having to pay both interest and principal at higher, adjustable rates.
 For borrowers with a $400,000 loan, such a jump could send their monthly payments to $2,338 from $1,417, estimates Louis S. Barnes, a mortgage broker at Boulder West Financial in Boulder, Colo.
 While mortgage rates approached these levels earlier this year and in 2007 during times of stress in the financial markets, the latest move adds urgency to the government's efforts to restore confidence in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Lawmakers are expected to vote this week on a measure that would give the Treasury Department authority to lend more money to the companies and buy shares in them if they falter.
 The uncertainty surrounding the two companies is the latest in a series of pressures bearing down on the housing market and the broader economy. Higher interest rates make it harder and more expensive to refinance existing debts and to buy homes.
 ''When we get to rate levels like this, the market just shuts down,'' Mr. Barnes said.
 While mortgage rates remain relatively low by historical standards, they are higher than what homeowners and the economy became accustomed to during the recent housing boom. Lending standards have also tightened significantly in the last 12 months, and many popular loans are no longer available.
 A government report based on data on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans said on Tuesday that home prices fell 4.8 percent in May from a year earlier. That compared to a 4.6 percent decline in April. Other home price indexes that track a broader set of loans show much bigger declines. 
 Worries about Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have led to weaker demand for securities backed by home mortgages, analysts say. Inflation, which tends to send bond prices down and bond rates up, is another concern. 
 In a securities filing released on Friday, Freddie Mac suggested that it might have to pare or slow the growth of its mortgage portfolio to bolster its capital.
 Freddie and Fannie together own about $1.5 trillion in mortgage securities and home loans, and they guarantee an additional $3.7 trillion in securities held by other investors. The companies had a combined net worth of $55 billion as of March. Analysts and critics say the companies need significantly more capital to cushion the blow of growing losses on the more-risky mortgages made during the boom.
 Important players in the mortgage market for decades, the two companies have become even more vital in the last year as several large lenders have gone out of business and investors have lost confidence in mortgage securities that are not backed by the government, or by Fannie or Freddie. 
 This year, the regulator overseeing the companies gave them more leeway to use their capital and the companies responded by increasing their portfolios. Freddie's holdings grew 6.9 percent in the first five months of the year from the end of 2007; Fannie's portfolio increased 1.8 percent.
 But now it appears the companies, particularly Freddie Mac, might have to slow their purchases of mortgage securities. In its filing, Freddie Mac said it aims to increase its portfolio by a total of 10 percent in 2008. A spokeswoman for Fannie Mae declined to comment on its plans.
 ''That's one of the ways in which the agencies can increase capital, by slowing down their purchases,'' said Derrick Wulf, a bond portfolio manager at Dwight Asset Management. ''I don't think the market expects a dramatic slowdown in purchases but there clearly is uncertainty about that.''
 Mortgage rates have been driven up in part by a rise in the yield on Treasury notes and bonds. On Tuesday, bond prices, which move in the opposite direction of the yields, slumped after the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, Charles I. Plosser, said the central bank might need to raise interest rates to combat inflation ''sooner rather than later.'' 
 Some analysts say the rise in mortgage rates can be explained by technical factors in the bond market that are forcing mortgage companies and banks to sell securities to manage their portfolios. These analysts add that at current prices the mortgage securities guaranteed by Fannie and Freddie should be attractive to investors. Mortgage bonds backed by Fannie Mae, for instance, are trading at a 2.1 percentage point premium to the 10-year Treasury note, up from 1.8 points on July 14.
 ''I don't see how anyone could argue that the fundamentals of mortgages are not attractive,'' said Matthew J. Jozoff, an analyst at JPMorgan.
 In March, for instance, mortgage rates surged after some big investors were forced to sell billions in mortgage bonds. But rates fell back slowly in the spring after the selling pressure eased and other investors, including Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, made big purchases. 
 This time, the coming Congressional vote on the Treasury plan to support the companies could help allay investors' fears, said W. Scott Simon, a managing director at Pimco Advisors, the giant bond fund firm, which owns mortgage securities. ''It will go a long way toward reviving demand.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Mortgage Rates Rising: Rates on conforming 30-year mortgages are at a 12-month high. Rates for jumbo loans were last this high in December 2000. A conforming loan is $729,750 or less, depending on region, and can be sold to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. (Source: HSHAssociates.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); MORTGAGE RATES (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); BONDS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



566 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 522 words

 BODY:
RISING RATES Worried about the health of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, bond investors are driving up interest rates on their debt, and the cost is being passed on to consumers. 
 'REDEFINING BAD' The Wachovia Corporation posted an $8.9 billion second-quarter loss, slashed its dividend and announced that it would cut 6,350 jobs after losses tied to mortgages soared, but investors saw signs of hope in the red ink.[C1.]
 COSTLY PRICE TAG The Congressional Budget Office said the proposed rescue of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could cost an estimated $25 billion and be added to the national debt. [C1.]
 CRITICAL DECISION The Environmental Protection Agency is considering a cut in required levels of ethanol in gasoline, a decision that could alter the development of biofuels in the country. [C1.]
 NEW FOCUS Facing a contraction in its traditional landline phone service, AT&T is looking at ways to raise more revenue from its wireless customers. [C1.]
 RISING INFLATION Sharp rises in global food and oil prices are spilling over into wages in Asia, as workers are demanding higher pay to cover their rising living costs. [C1.]
 With fast-growing economies in Asia being threatened by high oil prices, India blames speculators for the run-up in commodities markets. [C4.]
 A preliminary study by a federal task force reported that it had found no evidence that speculators were systematically driving up the price of oil. [C4.]
 SLOW GROWTH Yahoo said that its revenue in the second quarter grew 6 percent from the same period a year earlier, while net income fell 19 percent. [C2.]
 AIRLINE LOSSES Citing high fuel costs, United Airlines, JetBlue Airways and US Airways reported losses in the second quarter compared with profits in the period a year ago. [C2.]
 PARTNERSHIP General Electric and an Abu Dhabi sovereign wealth fund agreed to invest $8 billion in a commercial finance fund in the Middle East. [C4.]
 VETO SIGNAL A letter from a Bush administration official suggested that the White House would try to block an effort to give the Food and Drug Administration regulatory authority over tobacco. [C4.]
 HEALTH CONCERNS Although Apple's chief executive, Steven P. Jobs, has told his associates that he feels fine, concerns about his health have hurt the company's stock lately. [C5.]
 STRONG PROFIT The chemical maker DuPont said that global agriculture sales offset a slump in the domestic housing market and helped fuel a rise in its second-quarter profit. [C6.]
 ENGINEERS REASSIGNED BP said it would withdraw its technical staff from a joint venture in Russia, a sign of deepening troubles with its Russian partners. [C7.]
 IN DEVELOPMENT Nissan's chief executive, Carlos Ghosn, outlined plans for a new electric car that the automaker wants to start selling by 2010. [C7.]
 THINKING GREEN A group of direct marketing companies and a few of their corporate clients are working together to make bulk mailings more environmentally friendly. Advertising. [C7.]
 MARKET WOES The sale of a Manhattan office building at a loss shows how commercial real estate values in New York have deteriorated in the last year. [C9.]

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: Wachovia price per share 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (79%); FOOD PRICES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BONDS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); GASOLINE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (76%); ENERGY MARKETS (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); VETO (75%); BIOFUELS (74%); BIOMASS (74%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (74%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (73%); INFLATION (73%); COST OF LIVING (72%); DIRECT MARKETING (72%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (72%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (69%); ALCOHOLS (69%); FUEL ADDITIVES (69%); ETHANOL (69%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (68%); AIRLINES (68%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (67%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); CHEMICALS (64%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); JOINT VENTURES (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); CHEMICALS MFG (60%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (60%); SALES & SELLING (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (94%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (81%); APPLE INC (63%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (53%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (81%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (63%); LCC (NYSE) (53%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%); 7201 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (81%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (81%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (63%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (63%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (63%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (63%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (50%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (58%); CARLOS GHOSN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (65%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



567 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING AMERICAS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: CANADA: RAILWAY POSTS DECLINE IN PROFIT

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The Canadian Pacific Railway said second-quarter profit fell 40 percent and cut its full-year profit forecast as fuel costs rose and a slumping economy reduced traffic. Net income fell to 154.9 million Canadian dollars ($154 million), from 256.7 million Canadian dollars, the company said. Sales rose less than 1 percent to 1.22 billion Canadian dollars. Canadian Pacific, based in Calgary, has been hurt by the economic slowdown in the United States, where it gets a fifth of its revenue. Automakers, builders and lumber companies are shipping less freight. The railroad also lost business because of flooding in the United States and an increase of 34 percent in its fuel costs. The quarter was ''volatile,'' the chief executive, Frederick J. Green, said in an interview. Mr. Green, above, said he did not expect a revival in the second half of the year, and the company forecast full-year earnings of 4 to 4.20 Canadian dollars a share, down from its earlier estimate of 4.40 to 4.60 Canadian dollars. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); COMPANY LOSSES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); SALES FIGURES (88%); INTERVIEWS (85%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (54%); AUTOMAKERS (54%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY LTD (84%)

TICKER: CP (TSX) (84%); CP (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (84%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBERTA, CANADA (91%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



568 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Colombia's Gains Are America's, Too

BYLINE: By ROBERT M. GATES and JUAN MANUEL SANTOS. 
Robert M. Gates is the United States secretary of defense and Juan Manuel Santos is Colombia's minister of defense.

 BODY:
THE dramatic rescue of 15 hostages this month by Colombia's special forces underscored how far Colombia has progressed -- with the strong support of the United States -- from a nation under siege by narcoterrorists and paramilitary vigilantes to one poised to become a linchpin of security and prosperity in South America.
 As we meet today in Washington to discuss the United States-Colombia security relationship, we want to take stock of what has been gained over the past decade and commit our two nations to continue this progress. 
 The remarkable transformation of the security situation in Colombia can be credited in large part to the improvement in the capacity of its military and police -- an improvement in which American security assistance has played a key role. The governments of both nations agree that this assistance should continue until the job is finished. Furthermore, we should also increase trade and investment by moving forward on the United States-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement that is now before Congress. Growing prosperity and better standards of living are indispensable to achieving lasting stability in both countries. 
 Over all, our two nations should take care not to squander the investment we have already made -- some $5 billion on the part of the United States plus significantly more in Colombian resources -- now that these efforts are showing such promising results.
 Consider that eight years ago, illegal armed groups involved in cocaine and heroin production controlled more than 70 percent of the Colombian countryside. Today the most dangerous and vicious of the groups -- the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC -- has seen a sharp drop in its strength and status. Once 18,000 strong, the group has lost half its forces along with whatever credibility and following it had elsewhere in Latin America. The other major militias, the National Liberation Army and the United Self-Defense Forces, no longer pose a serious threat.
 Since 2002, Colombia has doubled the size of its security forces. Last October, the two of us observed Colombian troops conducting drills at their training base in the western city of Tolemaida. These brave men and women have pushed terrorists and drug traffickers into the farthest reaches of Colombia's mountains and jungles. Mayors and police officers are now at their posts in every municipality. 
 Military pressure, combined with incentives for those who lay down their arms under Colombia's demobilization program, has encouraged thousands of narcoterrorists to turn themselves in and share information with the government. Children once forced to serve in armed groups can now take advantage of reintegration programs that offer hope for a decent future. Violence has declined significantly -- kidnapping, terrorist acts and attacks against trade unionists are down by approximately 80 percent. 
 While the cultivation and export of narcotics continues to be a problem, Colombia has eliminated two-thirds of its opium production and more than 500 traffickers have been extradited to the United States. In 2007, half a million acres of illicit coca crops were eradicated.
 Even so, there are challenges ahead. The Colombian government must strengthen its authority in areas previously controlled by terrorists. Remnants of these bandit armies could continue their murderous ways as smaller, independent groups. That is why it is so important that American security assistance not be reduced -- at least not until Colombia has control of its borders, and police departments, municipal governments and other government services are firmly established in all areas. 
 Other countries must also help. Over the years, FARC elements have operated illegally from across Colombia's borders, and we will need those neighbors' cooperation to eliminate the threat. And, as always, the United States and other nations must make a sustained effort to cut the demand for narcotics that finance these violent groups.
 Finally, to achieve lasting peace and stability, Colombia must have more foreign investment and free trade. Congress's approval of the trade promotion agreement would establish a commitment to open markets that would increase growth and investment. Moreover, it would allow American products to enter Colombia duty-free. 
 Colombia's hard-won freedom from violence can be sustained only through economic prosperity. Together, as partners, we must see Colombia's transformation to completion. In winning the war, we must also consolidate the peace. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); NARCOTERRORISM (89%); HOSTAGE TAKING (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (88%); NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); DISARMAMENT (77%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); HEROIN (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (69%); COCAINE (64%); MAYORS (64%); OPIUM (60%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



569 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: To Starbucks, It's One Closing, But to Newark, It's a Trauma

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
The green aprons, the blond wood, the safari-themed coffee art and the chalkboards. From Chula Vista, Calif., to Bangor, Me., all Starbucks are more or less the same. And that's how the company wants it.
 But every store, as it turns out, is not quite the same. When a Starbucks opened on Broad Street here almost eight years ago, it was not seen as a bland new spigot of a corporate coffeepot, but as a gathering place whose very existence would have seemed impossible a decade before, a symbol of a knocked-down city's attempts to get up.
 A few miles away, in New York City, new Starbucks branches were sometimes greeted with yawns, or even annoyance that the national chain was invading neighborhoods. In Newark, Sharpe James, then the mayor, showed up for the opening.
 So when Starbucks announced last week that the Broad Street branch would be among the 600 stores that the coffee company is closing around the country, the reaction here was especially emotional, a mixture of anger, disappointment and frustration. 
 ''They're not going to close the one on Wall Street!'' one man exclaimed.
 A flier was circulated: ''Save our Starbucks,'' it said, directing supporters to a comments section of the corporate Web site. A deputy to Newark's mayor, Cory A. Booker, called Starbucks and asked them to reconsider.
 The closings of hundreds of the coffee chain's branches have certainly caused consternation in other places. But the cafe in downtown Newark is in some ways unique, a high-profile sign to all the people who fear the city that life is normal -- if one accepts that part of ''normal'' is the ability to buy a slightly expensive cup of coffee and a scone in the morning.
 ''It's the only nice place on this street,'' said Jorge Espana, a 70-year old retiree who comes to Starbucks twice a week from the other side of town. He pointed down Broad Street, a busy shopping thoroughfare dominated by nail salons and fast-food restaurants. On Monday afternoon, the Starbucks was packed with customers. Mr. Espana sat near a window. 
 Starbucks ''is important for me,'' he said. ''It's important for a lot of people.''
 His fellow patrons reflected a slice of Newark, the locals and commuters who work in the city's slowly recovering downtown, where there are few places, apart from the Starbucks, to sit and have coffee.
 Starbucks lists two other branches in the city, apart from those at the airport, but they are unseen by most people here. One is on the campus of Rutgers University, and the other is tucked in a corner of the Gateway Center, a glass office complex near Pennsylvania Station.
 Neither of those cafes -- and indeed, hardly any other cafe or restaurant in Newark -- attracts the kind of crowd that gathers daily at the Broad Street Starbucks, where Pamela Simms, an educational consultant, takes afternoon coffee breaks. ''There's a certain demographic, a clientele that feels comfortable here,'' she said. 
 This is to say that the white-collar workers who come to Newark daily, many of whom hardly interact with the city at large, are willing to escape their worlds once or twice a day and walk Newark's streets to get to Starbucks. On Monday, they came from Prudential, the insurance giant across the street, or one of the smaller offices in the building upstairs.
 One regular, Nijim Muddaththir, runs a food cart a few blocks away. ''All the guys from the mosque come here,'' Mr. Muddaththir said. ''It's our meeting place.'' 
 Robert Brozon had just missed his friends, a regular gathering of social workers. 
 ''I was shocked that with the revitalization, with the face-lift here, they would remove the Starbucks,'' he said. ''I'm confused about what message they're trying to send.'' 
 Mr. Brozon was referring to the sense that the streets around the Starbucks seemed to be prospering. A beautification campaign has transformed Broad Street with new bus shelters and sidewalks. A luxury apartment building nearby is almost full, and construction will soon start on a new residential loft building a few blocks away. New restaurants and bars have opened, their owners hoping for business from the visitors to Newark's recently-opened arena, the Prudential Center.
 But at the same time, high-profile national retailers, including Old Navy and a FedEx/Kinko's, have quietly left the area. Mr. Booker and his aides, while expressing disappointment with the Starbucks decision, have tried to put the best face on it.
 Stefan Pryor, Mr. Booker's deputy mayor for economic development, said the building's owner, Cogswell Realty Group, was exploring the possibility that another coffee shop might move into the space. And he said ambitious development plans for other parts of downtown Newark, closer to the stadium of the local minor-league baseball team, the Newark Bears, might mean that Starbucks will open elsewhere in the city.
 That did not stop the Booker administration from trying to keep the Starbucks right where it was.
 Mr. Pryor said he learned of the decision to close the branch from the building owner and called Starbucks executives to make ''a business case'' that they should stay. That appeal, for now, seems to have gone nowhere. Mr. Pryor would say only that the conversations with the coffee company were continuing, and that he was hopeful that Starbucks might open up again, perhaps somewhere else in the city.
 A spokesman for Starbucks, Mike Lenda, sent an e-mail statement. ''We are humbled by the support we've received from communities around the U.S. -- including Newark -- regarding the closure of our stores,'' it said. ''We used several criteria to determine stores for closure, including identifying locations that were not profitable at a store level and not believed to provide acceptable returns in the foreseeable future.''
 Mr. Lenda's statement did not say when the branch would close. ''While certain locations are underperforming for various reasons, we believe that a number of opportunities for profitable domestic growth remain in many areas, including Newark,'' he wrote.
 Late Monday afternoon, the soundtrack on the Starbucks stereo system had taken a melancholy turn, playing songs by Emmylou Harris, Bob Dylan and Gram Parsons.
 Nakia Banister and James Johnson sat at a table, their afternoon trip a reaction to the news that the Starbucks would not be on Broad Street for long. The closing of the Starbucks was a loss, Ms. Banister said, but there were other things to think about.
 ''I think what's more important is what replaces it,'' she said. ''Will this sit vacant for a year?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: When Starbucks came to Broad Street in Newark, it was seen by many as a sign of a neighborhood's potential to grow again.
 The crowd at the Broad Street Starbucks is a rarity for Newark: a mix of commuters who work there and locals who live there.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE & TEA (90%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); MAYORS (88%); CLOSINGS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); FAST FOOD (72%); NAIL SALONS (69%)

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (93%)

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BANGOR, ME, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



570 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Phone Giants Fight to Keep Subscribers

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

 BODY:
With millions of people snapping up the iPhone, AT&T, the exclusive carrier for the popular phone, should be quite pleased with the stream of revenue it can expect from customers. 
 But AT&T, the biggest telecommunications company in the United States, has a problem: analysts say consumers are dropping traditional landlines faster than expected. The company, which still gets 32 percent of its revenue from its landline business, reports its second-quarter financial results Wednesday and is expected to talk about how its traditional phone service is contracting. 
 AT&T is not the only company facing a changing environment in the communications business. All of the major telecommunications companies -- AT&T, Verizon and Sprint Nextel -- are figuring out how to make more money from customers as they spend more time sending text messages or browsing the Web on their wireless phones, rather than talking. 
 At the same time, as the American cellphone market gets saturated -- nearly 85 percent of American consumers already own a mobile phone -- phone companies are finding that growth is slowing. With more options, mobile phone buyers are also becoming more selective about the calling plans and the type of phones they want, making the market even more competitive. 
 ''In short order, sentiment in the telecom sector has gone from bullish to guarded to ... well, slightly queasy,'' Craig Moffett, a research analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company who follows communications companies, wrote in a recent report.
 Wireless phones are, by far, more common than landlines. According to CTIA, the wireless industry's trade group based in Washington, there are 262 million wireless subscribers in the United States. In contrast, the Federal Communications Commission counts 163 million business and residential landlines as of June 2007, its latest report.
 Analysts say that AT&T will report a decline in the number of its traditional landline subscribers. A spokesman for AT&T said executives could not comment ahead of earnings. Currently the company has 60.4 million traditional landlines -- in contrast to 68.7 million subscribers in the second quarter of 2006 -- and 71.4 million wireless subscribers. 
 AT&T has been losing landline subscribers each quarter at an accelerated rate since 2006. It dropped 7.4 percent in 2007. Analysts think that the economic downturn could also have an impact on the landline business. They say consumers looking to cut expenses will drop their landline -- which can cost up to $60 a month -- before they drop their wireless phone plan. 
 ''I think AT&T is pedaling as fast as it can to transform themselves from a wire line to a wireless company,'' Mr. Moffett said. ''To a degree it is working.'' The question, though, he said, is ''is it fast enough?''
 Analysts also expect it will report slower growth in its wireless business as well. 
 Verizon, which reports its second-quarter results on Monday, also is seeing slower growth. On Tuesday, Verizon Wireless said it added 1.5 million subscribers in the second quarter of 2008, the same number it added in its first quarter. Both numbers are down, though, from the fourth quarter in 2007, which was two million new subscribers.
 Verizon Wireless, which is a partnership between Verizon and Vodafone, has 68.7 million subscribers.
 ''It's still very strong,'' said Roger Entner, a senior vice president for Nielsen IAG, a market research firm. But compared with earlier figures, he said, it ''is indicative of a slowdown.''
 Verizon, too, is not immune from customer losses in its landline business. According to the report by Mr. Moffett, Verizon is vulnerable in the East Coast where it has a high percentage of customers. 
 Despite the loss of customers, companies will still need to spend to upgrade their networks. (Verizon currently has 40.5 million traditional landlines.) A spokesman for Verizon said executives were not available to speak until its financial results were announced. 
 Mr. Entner said AT&T and Verizon would have to sell customers more services to make up for the decline in traditional landline revenue. It is why they, particularly Verizon, are aggressively competing with cable companies to sell Internet and television services, bundled with traditional and wireless phone service. 
 ''If you own a home business, they are going to want to sell you not only a line for your home, but one for your office too,'' Mr. Entner said. ''They are going to want to sell you more, more of everything.''
 Keeping customers, along with acquiring new ones, is of paramount importance. Sprint, the No. 3 wireless carrier in the United States, has sought to stem the tide of customer defections of its wireless service. In the first quarter of 2008, 1.1 million of Sprint Nextel's 53.9 million customers fled, and churn -- a measure of turnover and therefore how unhappy customers are -- was on the rise. It announces its financial results on Aug. 6.
 ''The big carriers have fed on Sprint Nextel,'' Mr. Entner said. ''But there comes a time when all the people who want to leave have already left.''
 A bright spot, at least in the case of AT&T, is the debut of the latest iPhone. With a subsidized price of $199, it is sure to attract new customers, said Walter Piecyk, an analyst with Pali Research. ''Economically, it turns out great for them,'' he said, because new customers are required to sign a two-year contract to get the subsidized price.
 Carriers are seeking to address declining revenue in the landline business several ways besides focusing on the wireless business and bundling calling plans with Internet and television service. It would not be inconceivable, said one telecommunications executive who declined to be named because he was not authorized to discuss his company's plans, that in the next 10 years, carriers could entice their least profitable landline customers to give up their old-fashioned phones for free or deeply discounted wireless service.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An AT&T store in Gainesville, Fla. AT&T is the exclusive provider of service for the Apple iPhone. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRANDON KRUSE/THE GAINESVILLE SUN) (pg.C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (93%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); TELEPHONE RATES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); TEXT MESSAGING (78%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (70%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (66%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); VZC (LSE) (90%); VZ (NYSE) (90%); S (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (66%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



571 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Direct Mail Tries to Go Green. No, Really.

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
MOST marketers readily concede it: getting rid of direct mail -- or junk mail, as environmentalists and most recipients call it -- would save a lot of trees. But they are not about to render bulk mailings obsolete.
 ''The return on investment is just too high,'' said Jeffrey Horton, marketing supervisor for Kawasaki Motors Corporation U.S.A. 
 So a group of direct-marketing companies, along with a handful of their corporate clients, are banding together to make an inherently unsustainable practice at least a little bit greener. 
 The group calls itself the Green Marketing Coalition, and it includes Microsoft, Washington Mutual and OptimaHealth. Not all the companies involved are big mailers, but they share the sentiment that there should be best-practices guidelines for the direct mail business, which has been vilified even before global warming became a hot topic. 
 ''This industry just didn't have any real green standards,'' said Spyro Kourtis, president of the Hacker Group, the Seattle direct-marketing company that headed the Green Marketing Coalition. ''So we figured we could set some that vendors and clients and others could all live with.''
 So far, the coalition's guidelines are long on earnestness and short on truly new ideas. They include using chlorine-free recycled paper, proofreading marketing materials using Adobe PDF files rather than hard copies, and taking advantages of tax benefits that come from certain green initiatives.
 The guidelines suggest adhering to higher waste disposal standards and choosing vendors that are committed to recycling. There is also support for ''list hygiene'' -- that is, cleaning out direct-mail lists to remove the names of dead people and others unlikely to respond. 
 ''Just by improving list hygiene and data management, companies can target better and drastically cut down on advertising waste,'' the coalition advises. 
 The United States Postal Service is on the case, too. It has taken out a trademark on the term ''environMAIList'' to refer to marketers that adopt greener mail practices and try to make direct marketing more eco-friendly.
 On its Web site -- right after it notes that every dollar spent on direct mail returns almost $12 in sales -- the Postal Service now lists green tips for marketers, like letting people easily opt out of mailings, using water-based inks and recycled materials, and encouraging customers to recycle the mailing after reading it. 
 In May, the Postal Service mailed -- on recycled paper, of course -- general tips on greening up direct mail to about 100,000 companies. Those who send back a card asking for more information will get an organic cotton T-shirt and a handbook giving more detail on how to adopt greener practices.
 The Postal Service has also been sending press kits to reporters to spur coverage of its green push. Part of the pitch says: ''Although direct-mail accounts for only 2.4 percent of landfill waste, many opportunities are available to lessen its environmental impact even more.''
 Both the post office and the Green Marketing Coalition have stopped short of setting concrete goals. The coalition's guidelines, listed at greenmarketingcoalition.com, do not specify any measurable milestones or target dates for action. 
 ''You don't want to scare companies away from joining because they fear some stringent regulation,'' said Daniel Lenhart, facilities supervisor for Kawasaki Motors, a founding member of the coalition. 
 The vagueness of the recommendations has not endeared the coalition to environmentalists, although many are more amused than outraged by the concept of direct mailers painting themselves green. 
 ''It's hard to argue against any well-intentioned effort to use more recycled paper, but the idea of greening junk mail is still a bit like putting lipstick on a pig,'' said Todd J. Paglia, executive director of ForestEthics, a nonprofit organization dedicated to protecting forests. 
 Michael J. Brune, executive director of the Rainforest Action Network, is similarly skeptical. He is impressed that the coalition cites the Forest Stewardship Council's standards for protecting forests, rather than the less stringent Sustainable Forestry Initiative that the logging industry has voluntarily adopted. ''At least they are talking about the gold standard,'' he said. 
 Still, Mr. Brune faults the group for what he called a lack of boldness. ''Their guidelines are just bland, noncontroversial assertions, without teeth or concrete timelines or any real specificity for progress,'' he said. ''So forgive us for not throwing a victory party just yet.'' 
 Direct marketers, however, say they see no need to apologize for their industry's environmental track record. Most direct mailers have learned to aim their material at people most likely to respond, they contend, and thus are sending out much less mail. And most are using at least a small percentage of recycled paper. 
 ''Our industry employs quite a few people, generates billions of dollars in revenues for the economy and a huge number of donations for nonprofits,'' said Richard E. Bushee III, president of MSP, a direct mailer. ''Yes, the guidelines are a bit loose, and yes, we need to put numbers to them soon. But at least we're showing the world that we're talking about this, that we think it's important.''
 Most of the founding members say that they joined the coalition expressly to exchange green ideas with marketers in industries other than their own.
 ''We already recycle, we encourage carpooling, we have all sorts of green practices,'' Mr. Lenhart of Kawasaki Motors said. ''We didn't join the coalition for a new set of rules, but because it gives us an opportunity to bounce ideas off like-minded people.''
 The coalition held its first formal meeting by conference call in the spring, and members said they did come away with new ideas. Mr. Bushee picked up a tip on more efficient lighting systems for his warehouses. Mr. Lenhart heard about a new kind of paper with higher recycled content. Tom Berquist, senior vice president of member strategies for the Boeing Employees Credit Union, learned how to view mailers electronically, which cuts down on paper and ink and reduces the need to drive to the printing plant. 
 ''We know that the guidelines need to evolve into specific recommendations and goals,'' Mr. Berquist said. ''And yes, we know that eventually, we have to get paper out of the equation altogether.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Postal Service scale encouraging direct-mail marketers to adopt environmentally friendly practices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (93%); DIRECT MARKETING (90%); GREEN MARKET (90%); POSTAL SERVICE (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (88%); BEST PRACTICES (76%); DYES & PIGMENTS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (73%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (72%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (70%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (69%); COTTON FABRICS (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (53%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: KAWASAKI MOTORS CORP (72%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (84%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (72%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (53%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



572 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: Profit at U.P.S. Meets Forecast

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
United Parcel Service reported profit in line with analysts' expectations on Tuesday, despite high fuel costs and a weak national economy.
 U.P.S., which like its main rival FedEx is considered a bellwether of American economic health, said it expected the second half of 2008 to generate ''modestly better results'' than the first half. 
 The company, based in Atlanta, reported quarterly net income of $873 million, or 85 cents a share, matching analysts' forecasts, according to Reuters Estimates. Its income was down from $1.1 billion, or $1.04, a year earlier.
 U.P.S. reported revenue of $13 billion, up 6.7 percent from $12.2 billion in the second quarter of 2007. Analysts had expected revenue of $12.8 billion. Revenue at U.P.S.'s domestic package service rose to $7.7 billion, from $7.6 billion. U.P.S. said there had been a ''more pronounced'' shift by customers to cheaper services from premium products.
 The company said revenue at its international segment rose to $2.95 billion, from $2.5 billion, but results were hurt by fuel costs and declining import volumes.
 U.P.S. said it expected earnings for 2008 in a range of $3.50 to $3.70 a share. Analysts have forecast $3.61 a share. U.P.S. said its outlook would translate to a second-half range of $1.78 to $1.98, compared with a first-half performance of $1.72.
 In a conference call, the company's chief executive, D. Scott Davis, said U.P.S. was ''making good progress'' toward concluding a 10-year agreement with DHL, the Deutsche Post express unit, to haul packages by air for DHL within the United States and among the United States, Canada and Mexico. 
 DHL and U.P.S. said in May they were working on a deal. At the time, U.P.S. said the deal could generate up to $1 billion in annual revenue.
 U.P.S. shares rose $2.65, or 4.5 percent, closing at $62.11, on Tuesday on the New York Stock Exchange. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY REVENUES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (59%); DEUTSCHE POST AG (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (59%); DPW (FRA) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (59%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (59%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (59%); NAICS491110 POSTAL SERVICE (53%); SIC4215 COURIER SERVICES EX. BY AIR (53%)

PERSON: D SCOTT DAVIS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



573 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 244 words

HEADLINE: Earnings at Caterpillar Climb 34%

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The construction and mining equipment company Caterpillar said on Tuesday that quarterly earnings rose 34 percent, widely beating expectations, as strong growth in emerging economies offset weakness in North America, Western Europe and Japan. 
 The company also raised its full-year outlook, despite its forecast of significantly higher material costs in the second half.
 Caterpillar, a component of the Dow Jones industrial average and a business bellwether, reported a second-quarter profit of $1.11 billion, or $1.74 a share, compared with $823 million, or $1.24 a share, a year earlier.
 Sales rose 20 percent, to $13.64 billion.
 Analysts, on average, had expected the company, based in Peoria, Ill., to earn $1.54 a share on sales of $11.87 billion, according to Reuters Estimates.
 In North America, Caterpillar said economic conditions in construction and quarrying continued to deteriorate during the quarter, offsetting some improvements in commodity sectors.
 But strength in Asia, where machinery sales surged 50 percent during the quarter, more than offset weakness there and in Western Europe.
 China continued to be a big area of strength, and Indonesia, which is benefiting from high coal prices and strong construction growth, also contributed to Caterpillar's gains.
 The company announced separately on Tuesday that it was raising prices 5 to 7 percent worldwide, effective January 2009. Caterpillar shares rose 2.4 percent, or $1.75, to $74.98.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COAL MARKETS (67%); COAL PRICES (66%); COAL INDUSTRY (51%)

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (92%)

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (92%); CATR (PAR) (92%); CAT (SWX) (92%); CAT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PEORIA, IL, USA (54%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (91%); JAPAN (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (88%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%); CHINA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



574 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: For Sale in . . . Prague

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA C. McGUIRE

 BODY:
WHAT
 A two-bedroom penthouse apartment with a study and a roof deck in a 1905 Art Nouveau apartment building.
 HOW MUCH
 39,900,000 Czech koruna ($ 2,750,000).
 SETTING
 Vinohrady, a neighborhood in Prague's city center, is about a 20-minute walk from the old town square. Its many new bars, boutiques and music places are popular with wealthy young people. The apartment is two blocks from Miru, the plaza and public transit hub, and only five blocks from Havliekovy Sady, the city center's largest park.
 INSIDE
 The main entrance leads to an open kitchen and lounge area on the second floor. Windows on the sloping ceiling allow for natural light and fresh air. Downstairs, a two-story foyer is flanked by his-and-hers suites, with walk-in closets and bathrooms. The wide doorways between the rooms are fitted with folding glass doors. One suite is decorated in pink and gold, with a stand-alone bathtub. A flat-screen television is suspended from the ceiling at the foot of the bed. The other suite, decorated in darker colors, has an adjoining study. 
 OUTSIDE
 Sliding doors in the kitchen open onto a terrace. A staircase from the lounge area on the second floor leads to a roof deck with a view of Prague Castle.
 WHERE AND HOW TO GET THERE
 45 minutes by car or an hour by public transportation from Prague's Ruzyne International Airport.
 WHO BUYS IN PRAGUE
 Prague attracts buyers from Britain, Germany, Russia and other Eastern European countries. Jaroslav Zizka, director of sales for the real estate firm Svoboda & Williams, said he used to see more American buyers in Prague, but the strained American economy and the relative strength of the Czech koruna has dramatically reduced the number of Americans investing in Czech property.
 MARKET OVERVIEW
 Major changes in the country's political system in recent years are still having a ripple effect on Prague's property market. The collapse of the Communist government in 1989, the division of Czechoslovakia into two countries -- the Czech Republic, of which Prague is the capital, and Slovakia -- in 1993, and the Czech Republic's entry into the European Union in 2004 have all impacted the residential property market. 
 Mr. Zizka said apartments in the old town cost between 130,000 and 300,000 koruna a square meter, or $836 to $1,923 a square foot. For apartments in the city center but outside the historic district, costs per square meter drop to between 80,000 to 150,000 koruna a square meter ($511 to $962 a square foot). And modest apartments at the edges of the city sell for as low as 40,000 to 60,000 koruna a square meter ($260 to $381 a square foot). Liam Bailey, head of residential research at Knight Frank, a real estate company, said that following the political changes, private-property rights have been expanded, and government housing subsidies have been reduced. In addition, there is greater access to mortgage financing. ''The mortgage market didn't mature until about five years ago,'' Mr. Bailey said. These factors have all contributed to steady growth in housing prices. According to Knight Frank's research, property prices in Prague rose 7.5 percent in the 12 months ending last month, but prices of high-end property rose 9 percent during the same period.
 Mr. Zizka said that the Prague property market boomed in the 1990s, but growth was mostly in homes priced for the middle class. Now, he said, the market for high-end properties in Prague is taking off. Mr. Bailey has seen an increase in demand for luxury homes across Eastern Europe. These countries, he said, are developing a luxury market that did not exist 20 years ago. 
 Mr. Bailey anticipates growth of 5 to 10 percent a year in the value of real estate in Prague for the next two years, based on studies by Knight Frank. He expects the high-end market to see higher rates of growth, ''due to restrictions in supply.'' 
 BUYING BASICS 
 A foreigner who wants to buy real estate in Prague must either start a company, become a legal resident of the Czech Republic or get a long-term visa, said Lukas Sima, head of the law department at Svoboda & Williams. Mr. Sima said the total cost to start a single-purpose company as a vehicle to buy property is about 45,000 koruna ($3,100). 
 It costs about 20,000 koruna ($1,375) for people from European Union countries to obtain a residency permit in the Czech Republic, said Mr. Sima. Americans can buy property if they get long-term visas, which costs about 30,000 koruna ($2,066). Foreigners from other countries may be able to gain resident status and if they can't, they can buy property through a company.
 Mr. Zizka said that most real estate firms in Prague handle all aspects of property sales, including legal work, transfer of documents, residency permits and mortgage financing. Their commission, usually 3 percent of the purchase price, is paid by the seller, who also pays the 3 percent real estate transfer tax.
 When buying a new-construction apartment -- which is uncommon in the city center -- buyers must pay a value-added tax on the purchase price. There are two rates, Mr. Zizka said. For an apartment of up to 120 square meters (1,300 square feet), the value-added tax is 9 percent. For a larger apartment, it is 19 percent. The value-added tax is usually included in the asking price, but Mr. Zizka has seen some agencies make the asking price look lower by omitting it.
 Mortgages are available to foreign buyers. Most lenders require a 20 percent down payment, said Lucie Bauerova, the expatriate-division manager based in the Czech Republic for Simply, an Irish mortgage brokerage. Typical mortgage origination fees are about 1 percent of the amount borrowed, Ms. Bauerova said.
 But Mr. Zizka warned that the bank's appraisal may be very different from the asking price for previously owned homes. He said that for older apartments, the appraisal can be as low as 50 percent of the market price. Although banks sometimes pay for the appraisal, Mr. Zizka said buyers may choose to hire their own appraiser for around 3,000 to 6,000 koruna ($207 to $414). Some banks will lend up to 100 percent of the appraised value, but that means buyers will need to come up with the difference between the appraised value and the agreed-upon price.
 USEFUL WEB SITES
 Prague Post (English language newspaper): www.praguepost.com
 Prague City Hall Web site: magistrat.praha-mesto.cz/default.aspx?l=2
 Prague Transport Company: www.dpp.cz/en
 English-language directory of businesses in Prague: www.expats.cz/directory
 LANGUAGES AND CURRENCY
 Czech koruna (1 CZK = $0.068)
 TAXES AND FEES
 Mr. Zizka said that property taxes are based on the average property value in the neighborhood. This apartment's taxes are 2,500 koruna ($172) a year. Monthly maintenance, which includes utilities, is 22,000 koruna a month ($1,513).CONTACT
 Jaroslav Zizka, Svoboda & Williams, 011-420-257-328-281, www.svoboda-williams.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); DRINKING PLACES (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); AIRPORTS (64%)

COMPANY: KNIGHT FRANK LLP (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (50%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (92%) CZECH REPUBLIC (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); SLOVAKIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); GERMANY (69%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



575 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Losses Mount, and Airlines Plan Steeper Spending Cuts

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
United Airlines and US Airways said on Tuesday that they would cut even more deeply into their flying during the fourth quarter, while JetBlue Airways said it would defer more aircraft deliveries, steps the carriers attributed to record prices for jet fuel.
 All three airlines reported losses in the second quarter compared with profits in the period a year ago. 
 They joined other big airlines, including American, Continental and Delta, in posting second-quarter losses in the last week. Northwest Airlines reports its results on Wednesday.
 Domestic airlines have been hit hard by record fuel prices, which are up 93.7 percent in North America compared with a year ago. The airlines have cut flights, grounded planes, raised prices and imposed fees for features that used to be free, like checking bags.
 United, the second-biggest domestic carrier, behind American, said Tuesday that it would cut its capacity by 11 percent in the fourth quarter, including a 16 percent cut in domestic flying, and a 7 percent reduction in international flights. 
 For the full year, United's capacity is expected to drop 7.5 to 8.5 percent compared with 2007.
 The chief operating officer, John P. Tague, said United had a ''developing overcapacity in the international marketplace.'' United, operated by the UAL Corporation, recently announced that it was grounding some big Boeing 747 jets and dropping several international routes.
 The decrease in overseas flights is a potentially troubling sign for the major airlines, which traditionally make more money on tickets for trips outside the United States. 
 But with the price of jet fuel nearly double what the airlines paid in 2007, ''the economics of many routes just don't make sense,'' Mr. Tague said during a conference call. 
 United cut 50 routes from its fall schedule in the last week, including several hundred weekly flights from Los Angeles International Airport, one of five hubs. Mr. Tague would not comment on speculation that United might eliminate more service at Los Angeles, effectively removing it from hub status.
 He hinted, however, that additional flights could be cut. ''We will continue to have a bias toward more actions,'' he said.
 The airline, based in Chicago, said it would also eliminate 7,000 jobs by the end of the year, as it reported a net loss of $2.73 billion, compared with a profit of $274 million in the second quarter a year ago. 
 In a positive step, the airline extended a contract to sell frequent-flier miles to its credit card provider, Chase, which in turn sharply reduced the amount that Chase could hold back from United transactions, to $25 million, from $385 million. 
 The larger amount, which represented about 25 percent of the airline's credit card transactions with Chase, dated from the years United spent under bankruptcy protection earlier this decade. 
 Shares of UAL, JetBlue and US Airways all jumped on Tuesday, as oil prices dropped. UAL closed at $8.41, up 68.5 percent, while JetBlue gained 15.7 percent, to $4.50. US Airways closed at $4.27, up 58.7 percent.
 JetBlue said it had reached an agreement with the Brazilian aircraft maker Embraer to defer deliveries of nine more EMB 190 regional jets, which were a crucial tool in JetBlue's rapid expansion in the last few years.
 In all, JetBlue has announced plans to push back deliveries of 10 Embraer planes and 21 Airbus jets this year. 
 The airline is pulling back sharply on its growth plans, the chief executive, David Barger, said in a conference call. In 2006, the airline expected to buy or lease 53 more planes than it now expects to add to its fleet.
 JetBlue announced on Tuesday that it would stop flying to Ontario, Calif., the first city it served on the West Coast when it began operations in 2000. The decision to cut Ontario flights is part of a broader one by the airline to reduce its transcontinental flights.
 Last year, transcontinental service accounted for 45 percent of JetBlue's available seat miles. This year, only 30 percent of its seat miles are between the coasts. Instead, the airline is concentrating more on north-south flights and stepping up service to the Caribbean.
 As with United, Mr. Barger said high fuel prices made some routes uneconomical. When JetBlue began service to Ontario, oil was $30 a barrel. ''There are many routes that make sense at $20, $30 or $60 a barrel, but not at $100 and plus,'' Mr. Barger said. 
 In a bright note for the airline, if not for passengers, Mr. Barger said JetBlue had doubled its revenue from fees collected from travelers, including charges for seats with more legroom and to check baggage. 
 Last year, JetBlue collected $4 a passenger in what the industry is calling ancillary revenue; this year, the airline took in $8 a traveler.
 US Airways, which lost $567 million in the third quarter, including noncash charges, also said it was cutting back again on its flights. It said it would reduce flights by 4 percent this year, up 1 percent from its previous announcement, and by 6 percent in 2009, up 2 percent.
 Most of US Airways' cuts are coming in the United States, where it does the majority of its flying. US Airways, which earned $283 million in the 2007 quarter, said it would cut international flights by 1 to 3 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Swissport worker preparing to fuel a US Airways jet. The airline reported a loss. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); JET FUEL (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (74%); CREDIT CARDS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); EXECUTIVES (52%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (96%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (94%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (90%); BOEING CO (58%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (96%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (94%); UAL (NYSE) (92%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (96%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (90%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



576 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'BOY A'; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Pay the Interest On His Debt to Society

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
The ingenuous 24-year-old man-child at the center of John Crowley's wrenching melodrama ''Boy A'' is a familiar movie type: a basically good person who made a tragic mistake years earlier and is handed a second chance. 
 Adapted from a novel by Jonathan Trigell, the movie is unambiguously enamored of Jack Burridge, ne Eric Wilson (Andrew Garfield), who is re-entering society under a new name after having served 14 years in a juvenile prison in Manchester, England. Given a job and a modest one-room apartment, Jack seems ready to make a go of it. The details of his heinous crime are leaked out gradually. 
 Flashbacks portray Eric as the only child of troubled parents: a mother dying an excruciating death from breast cancer in an upstairs bedroom and a gruff father who broods downstairs over a bottle of whiskey. Relentlessly bullied by his peers, Eric develops a friendship with Philip Craig (Taylor Doherty), a fellow outcast with a history of sexual abuse and a streak of sociopathic rage. 
 The movie's depiction of Eric, who at the time of his crime was identified as Boy A because he was under age, doesn't jibe with its portrait of the dewy, verbally stumbling man released from juvenile prison. Shy and handsome, prone to frightening nightmares, Jack is desperately eager to put the past behind him. His emotional lifeline is his stern, kindhearted caseworker, Terry (Peter Mullan), who has a son around Jack's age. The movie pointedly compares Terry's alienation from his biological son with his devotion to his surrogate one. 
 Under no circumstances, Terry emphasizes, is Jack to reveal his former identity or to discuss his imprisonment. The only information that his new employer at the delivery company that hires him has is that he served time and paid his debt to society. 
 In some ways ''Boy A'' is a throwback to the sooty kitchen-sink realism of early-'60s British films by Tony Richardson, Lindsay Anderson and John Schlesinger, which portrayed a depressed, alienated working class teetering between rage and hopelessness in a stagnant economy. 
 In ''Boy A,'' Manchester looks much the same now as it did in movies back then. The identical brick buildings and narrow streets through which Jack furtively scuttles evoke time-honored film images of Britain's northern industrial cities as forbidding, prisonlike environments. Although shot in color, ''Boy A'' leaves a black-and-white impression. 
 Mr. Garfield's performance makes Jack so endearing and vulnerable that as he takes his first wobbly steps, like a baby bird shoved from its nest, your instincts are protective. When he goes out drinking with his co-workers, and one casually slips a tab of Ecstasy into his beer, you worry that disaster is imminent. Later, when he comes to the rescue of Chris (Shaun Evans), his closest friend at work, in a drunken rooftop brawl, the movie portrays his violent intervention as brave and not as a scary reversion to previous behavior. 
 Most important is Jack's developing relationship with Michelle (Katie Lyons), the grounded, no-nonsense secretary at his job. Every step of that courtship, from gathering the courage to ask her out to their first kiss, is a major personal leap forward. But as Jack's heart opens, he longs to tell Michelle about his past and clear the slate. 
 One day when he and Chris are driving the company van, Jack spots a car that has spun off the road into the woods and saves the life of a young girl trapped in the vehicle. He becomes a local hero. But heroes -- even genuine ones -- are resented. So is the media attention that heroism brings. Society doesn't forget violent crimes, even those committed by children. As flashbacks reveal Jack's past, ''Boy A'' asks us to weigh issues about forgiveness, justice and human nature. 
 If the movie has already made up its mind that Jack is a good guy worthy of salvation, it implies that for the majority of people some crimes are unforgivable; once a monster, always a monster. The pill we are asked to swallow is a very bitter one. 
 BOY A
 Opens on Wednesday in Manhattan. 
 Directed by John Crowley; written by Mark O'Rowe, based on the novel by Jonathan Trigell; director of photography, Rob Hardy; edited by Lucia Zucchetti; music by Paddy Cunneen; production designer, Jon Henson; produced by Lynn Horsford, Nick Marston and Tally Garner; released by the Weinstein Company. At Film Forum, 209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes. This film is not rated. 
 WITH: Andrew Garfield (Jack Burridge), Peter Mullan (Terry), Katie Lyons (Michelle), Shaun Evans (Chris) and Taylor Doherty (Philip Craig). 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 30, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A film review last Wednesday about ''Boy A'' misstated the manner in which the character Jack takes the drug Ecstasy while out drinking with co-workers. One of them gives him a pill and he swallows it without knowing what it is; a co-worker does not slip it into his beer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew Garfield as a nice young man with a nasty past in ''Boy A,'' directed by John Crowley. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WEINSTEIN COMPANY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (78%); CITY LIFE (69%); BULLYING (67%); BREAST CANCER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (72%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (57%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (57%) ENGLAND (77%); UNITED KINGDOM (57%); UNITED STATES (57%)

TITLE: Boy A (Movie)>; Boy A (Movie)>

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



577 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Feeling Powerless, India Blames Oil Speculation

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: NEW DELHI 

 BODY:
While the United States Congress considers what, if anything, should be done to damp oil trading markets, where prices remain high by historical standards, nations outside the United States are watching closely and hoping for big changes. 
 ''Speculators have played a greater role in the market than either buyers or sellers,'' India's finance minister, Palaniappan Chidambaram, said in an interview, weighing in on a hotly debated theory about the price of oil. 
 Citing testimony given in Congressional hearings, Mr. Chidambaram said the inflow of $250 billion to commodities indexes indicates that speculators have had a big role in the run-up in prices. 
 Democrats and Republicans in Congress have introduced separate bills to curb what they contend is excessive speculation. These proposals are vehemently opposed by traders, banks and investors who speculate in oil. 
 ''Why are these markets not regulated?'' said Mr. Chidambaram, who has an M.B.A. from Harvard and has spent most of his political career in economics and finance. 
 Mr. Chidambaram has become a vocal champion of some of the Asian nations whose fast-growing economies are threatened by high oil prices -- countries that rely on oil imports but have little leverage over prices. 
 While rising oil and gas prices are pinching consumers' wallets and corporate profits in the United States and Europe, the consequences have been more drastic in many developing countries. Protests and riots are rife, newly blossoming businesses like airlines are being crushed and severe inflation looms. 
 ''Four or five years of economic growth are being wiped out in one year,'' Mr. Chidambaram said. 
 Economists say politicians here are powerless. ''There is a general resignation in Asia that little can be done in the short term to influence the global price of crude oil,'' said Matt Robinson, an economist with Moody's based in Sydney, Australia. 
 Opposition party leaders in India's increasingly fractured political landscape have called for the ouster of Mr. Chidambaram because of higher fuel prices. ''I wish I had a magic wand to bring down oil prices, and I don't,'' he said. 
 Mr. Chidambaram is one of the few politicians from oil-buying countries to propose concrete changes in the way the world's crude markets work. 
 His suggestion is to create a ''buyers' group'' that would represent nations that rely on petroleum imports, much like the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries represents producers. This group could sit across the table from OPEC and set an acceptable price band that would take into account future production and demand estimates, he said. 
 ''I'm not suggesting a cartel,'' Mr. Chidambaram said. ''I'm only suggesting that all buyers get together and exchange views, like producers do.'' 
 He presented this idea at an energy meeting in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, in June, and he acknowledged that the other attendees gave it a cold response but attributed that in part to the lack of buying nations at the meeting. Any oil trading, in the spot or futures markets, would also have to stay within a price band, he suggested. 
 Such arrangements are not unprecedented in the commodity markets. OPEC set up an informal price band after the price collapse of 1998, with a target price of $22 to $28 a barrel. 
 While it was active, if the average price of oil strayed above $28 a barrel, OPEC members would pump more oil so prices would fall a little, and if the average price fell below $22 a barrel, production would be cut so that prices would rise. But this mechanism was eventually abandoned as demand for oil from emerging markets grew faster than OPEC's ability to increase its supplies.
 The effect of speculation on the price of oil, as well as its benefits and negatives, has been debated in the United States and beyond this year. 
 While critics like Mr. Chidambaram blame speculators for high oil prices, some economists blame rising demand from developing nations, created by breakneck economic expansion and rising personal incomes. 
 President Bush criticized again last week the subsidies in many Asian countries that keep gasoline prices lower for their consumers, including China and India. Mr. Bush said such subsidies, which China and India have reduced somewhat, kept demand elevated. Despite subsidies, consumers in India still pay more for a gallon of gasoline than consumers in America. 
 On the other hand, investors in oil futures add liquidity to the system and smooth out price shocks. But their critics say the additional cash they bring to commodity markets artificially inflates prices to the point that they are detached from fundamentals like supply and demand. 
 India has already acted to tame other commodity prices. The country banned futures trading in several essential food commodities, including lentils, soy oil and rubber. 
 Prices in some of these commodities, like lentils, have declined, while prices in others, like rubber, have risen. So far, India's experience ''does not point to any conclusions,'' Mr. Chidambaram said, though ''public sentiment seems to support banning futures trading'' altogether. 
 Mr. Chidambaram is not the only non-American politician questioning speculators' role as Congress examines the issue. The Australian prime minister, Kevin Rudd, said last month that his government would do what it could to ''act consistently on the question of the impact of speculation on global oil markets and any artificial manipulation of the oil price.'' 
 A spokesman for the Australian government said Mr. Rudd was not suggesting anything beyond acting through existing international organizations. (He has, figuratively, suggested applying a blowtorch to OPEC to lower oil prices.) 
 Nations in South and East Asia, including India, may have the most to lose if oil prices resume their steep rise, or stay at current highs. In a report called ''Inflation Typhoon,'' HSBC's economists in Asia warned this month that increases in fuel prices could cripple the region. 
 In part because of rising energy costs, inflation in the Philippines will hit double digits in the coming months, Pakistan's economy looks ''precariously out of balance,'' Malaysian petroleum prices are up 41 percent and Indonesian prices are up 30 percent, the report said. 
 In India, inflation was above 11.9 percent in July, higher than it has been in more than a decade, and HSBC predicts economic growth will slow to 7.6 percent this year, from 9 percent last year. 
 The report warned, ''If commodity price inflation remains high, the inflation and growth impacts next year will be more severe.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Palaniappan Chidambaram, a champion for poorer nations relying on oil, visited the stock exchange in Mumbai in March. (PHOTOGRAPH BY INDRANIL MUKHERJEE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY MARKETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (87%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); CARTELS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); RIOTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (77%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (53%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



578 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Economy Helps Make Chinese the Leaders in Optimism, 24-Nation Survey Finds

BYLINE: By BRIAN KNOWLTON; David Barboza contributed reporting from Beijing.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Buoyed by years of extraordinary growth and the promise of the Olympic Games, the Chinese people hold strikingly positive views of their national economy and the direction their country is heading, ranking first in both measures among 24 countries recently surveyed, the Pew Research Center said Tuesday. 
 China ''is clearly a nation that sees itself as ascendant, and that leads to tremendous satisfaction with the way things are going nationwide, even though the people are still struggling on an individual level,'' said Andrew Kohut, president of the Pew Research Center. 
 Eighty-six percent of Chinese people surveyed said they were content with the country's direction, up from 48 percent in 2002. The next highest country, Australia, was 25 percentage points lower, at 61 percent. And 82 percent of Chinese were satisfied with their national economy, up from 52 percent.
 By comparison, only 23 percent of people surveyed from the United States said they were satisfied with their country's direction and only 20 percent said the American economy was good.
 Russians were the third most-satisfied people with their country's direction, at 54 percent, despite Western concerns about authoritarian trends in the country. 
 Except for Spain, which placed fourth at 50 percent, the people of major European countries were far from content. Only about 3 in 10 British, French and Germans expressed satisfaction with the direction of their nations.
 The survey, part of the Pew Global Attitudes Project, did find rising concern in China about the costs of rapid growth. The biggest concern Chinese respondents expressed was rising prices. Corruption and environmental degradation also worried most Chinese people.
 The Chinese respondents -- surveyed after the onset of civil unrest over Tibet but before the May 12 earthquake in southwestern China -- were somewhat less satisfied with their own lives than with national conditions. Most Chinese ''feel a genuine sense of great pride in what has been achieved,'' said Melissa Murphy, a China specialist at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.
 The roaring Chinese economy sent food prices up by 22 percent in April, compared with a year before, and 96 percent of the Chinese surveyed cited rising prices as their leading concern. Among their other concerns: the gap between rich and poor (89 percent), corrupt officials (78 percent), air pollution (74 percent), unemployment (68 percent) and water pollution (66 percent).
 Sixty-five percent of the Chinese said the government was doing a good job on the issues most important to them, though support was somewhat less in the western and central provinces, which have not enjoyed the rapid growth of eastern regions.
 Amid heightened scrutiny over flawed or contaminated Chinese exports, the survey provided a reminder that the country's largely state-controlled news media still keep a lid on news of negative developments. 
 Only 1 percent of Chinese respondents said they had heard a lot about problems with Chinese-made products. 
 Thirty-four percent of those surveyed, up from 25 percent in 2006, said people in China were paying too much attention to the Games. That feeling was even stronger in Beijing, expressed by nearly half of the city's residents.
 But optimism that the Games would improve China's image was strong, apparently little affected by the pro-Tibet and anti-China protests around the globe surrounding the torch relay. 
 Ms. Murphy, noting that 96 percent of respondents said they believed China's hosting of the Games would prove successful, said, ''It might have some officials in Beijing worried about the consequences if the Games are not.''
 As a sense of self-confidence grows in China, some appear to see the English-speaking world as of relatively declining importance. While 77 percent agreed that ''children need to learn English to succeed in the world today,'' this was down from 92 percent in 2002.
 The poll was based on 3,212 face-to-face interviews conducted in 16 dialects from March 28 to April 19 across China, though disproportionately in urban areas. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus two percentage points. Sample sizes and error margins in the other countries varied.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (87%); PRICE INCREASES (86%); TRENDS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); OLYMPICS (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (69%); FOOD PRICES (64%); WATER POLLUTION (64%); CORRUPTION (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); AIR POLLUTION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); TIBET (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



579 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: UnitedHealth Beats Wall St. Expectations

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The UnitedHealth Group beat Wall Street expectations on Tuesday, and its shares rose despite a sharp drop in second-quarter profit. 
 Shares of the health insurer and managed-care provider, based in Minneapolis, rose $2.38, or 10 percent, to $26.21, and shares of other publicly traded health insurers like Aetna and WellPoint also jumped several percentage points.
 ''The worst case didn't happen to managed care, and that was enough for people to jump back in,'' said an analyst, Les Funtleyder, of Miller Tabak & Company. ''The assumption is the worst is over.''
 UnitedHealth's net income fell to $337 million, or 27 cents a share, from $1.23 billion, or 89 cents a share, a year ago. Hefty lawsuit settlements and thinner margins in its health care services business contributed to the profit drop.
 Tough economic conditions, including competition as fewer employers offer insurance, were among factors cited by company officials in a conference call with analysts.
 In the company's UnitedHealthcare segment, second-quarter membership decreased less than 1 percent, partly because of a drop of 95,000 people in risk-based programs where the company provides the insurance.
 Earnings from operations in UnitedHealth's main business line, health care services, fell to $1.14 billion, from $1.75 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); HEALTH CARE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); LITIGATION (53%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%)

COMPANY: UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (91%); WELLPOINT INC (58%)

TICKER: UNH (NYSE) (91%); WLP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



580 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Higher Fares, Worse Service, No Help

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the state agency that runs the subways and buses, is in such financial trouble that even if it managed to get hundreds of millions of dollars in additional government aid it would still need more cash to stay in business. 
 That is why officials insist they have no choice but to impose another fare increase -- the second in two years. We fear they may be right. But New York City's riders should demand better service for the higher fares. 
 The M.T.A. budget shortfall has ballooned from $200 million to $900 million in recent months, mainly because of the rising cost of fuel, falling tax revenues and debt servicing. The authority expects to raise some $200 million by raising fares. It has asked the state and city to contribute another $300 million to help narrow the gap. 
 Unfortunately, the authority is getting little sympathy or help. The mayor's office has said there is no money for the M.T.A., and it told the authority to tighten its belt. Gov. David Paterson bemoaned the burden on riders and urged his authority to ''take another look at their books.'' Rechecking the math won't change much.
 New York City's riders already pay a larger share of their mass-transit budget than riders in other cities. Albany has shortchanged the system for years, leaving the M.T.A. far too dependent on tax revenues that have fallen sharply as the economy has worsened. 
 Legislators, particularly those in Albany, bear an even greater responsibility to help after they rejected a congestion-pricing plan that would have brought the M.T.A. $500 million in additional funds annually. They spurned it anyway, leaving the M.T.A. to rattle a cup and riders to reach ever deeper into their pockets. 
 Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who championed congestion pricing, needs to move on and help transit in other ways. A sound businessman like the mayor knows that this city needs effective transit to do business, draw tourists and keep residents. Mass transit also reduces car traffic and tailpipe emissions. 
 Because bad news never seems to come in ones, a report this week by New York City Transit shows the quality of subway service declining, with more overcrowding and growing delays. New York City's subway riders deserve better service, and they deserve more help from both their city and their state. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); MAYORS (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); EMISSIONS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (57%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



581 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: A Drop in Oil Gives Market a Late Lift

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
A modest rally on Wall Street accelerated in late trading on Tuesday, as another steep drop in oil prices sent the Dow Jones industrial average surging 135 points to its highest close in a month.
Shares of banks extended last week's gains as investors bet -- yet again -- that the worst of the credit crisis may be over.
Oil closed down $3.79, at $127.25 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange after weather reports showed that a tropical storm heading to the coast of South Texas would probably miss the region's refineries and supply hubs. The price was the lowest for light crude in six weeks. 
Oil has lost nearly $11 in the last week alone, and is off about $20 from its record high, set this month.
The decline helped investors shrug off dour earnings reports from the technology and financial sectors, despite ominous forecasts from some of the nation's biggest corporate names.
The day began with a painful report from Wachovia, the banking giant, which took an $8.9 billion loss last quarter and said it would cut its dividend and some jobs. The Dow dropped more than 70 points after the opening bell.
But instead of selling Wachovia stock, investors bought in. Shares of the company ended the day up 27.4 percent at $16.79 a share, its highest close since June 26.
There was a sense, analysts said, that the worst may be over for Wall Street firms. The optimism was enough to buoy the entire financial sector and add to the three days of gains last week. Two of the industry's most beaten-down stocks, Freddie Mac and Lehman Brothers, gained more than 10 percent. Shares of Citigroup added 6 percent; Goldman Sachs was up 3 percent.
The broader market advanced 1.4 percent, as measured by the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which closed at 1,277. The Dow finished at 11,602.50, up 1.2 percent, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 1.1 percent.
Stocks rose significantly in the final minutes of trading, with the Dow picking up 77 points in the last half-hour alone.
American Express, the credit card giant that released disappointing earnings on Monday, was not among the winners. The company lowered its earnings forecast, citing increased defaults among card holders, and its shares ended down 7.1 percent.
The technology-heavy Nasdaq index was in negative territory for much of the day after Apple, which reported strong earnings on Monday, said it expected sales to slow in the summer. Some analysts questioned the resilience of the company's computer and iPod sales, and Apple shares fell 2.6 percent.
Policy makers offered mixed signals about the economy's prospects in separate speeches on Tuesday morning. The Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., said that he expected the economy to recover despite a few more ''bumps in the road,'' and urged Congress to approve a proposed rescue plan for the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The Congressional Budget Office said Tuesday that the plan could cost taxpayers $25 billion.
Meanwhile, Charles I. Plosser, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, said he thought interest rate increases should come ''sooner rather than later.'' Mr. Plosser has consistently voted against lowering rates this year and has warned repeatedly about the threat of inflation.
The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 15/32, to 98 6/32. Its yield, which moves opposite the price, rose to 4.10 percent, from 4.04 percent.
Following are the results of Tuesday's Treasury auction of four-week bills and 20-year inflation-protected securities:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 THE FAVORITES (Source: Charles Schwab) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); DIVIDENDS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); CREDIT CARDS (76%); WEATHER (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (62%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (66%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (66%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (66%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (66%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2010



582 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section WT; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Paulson Urges Americans to Be Patient on Economy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., said on Tuesday that Americans need to remain patient as the economy works through its problems, and he warned of ''continued stresses'' in the months ahead before a full recovery can be made.
 ''Our markets won't make progress in a straight line, and we should expect additional bumps in the road,'' Mr. Paulson said in remarks at the New York Public Library in Midtown Manhattan. ''We have been experiencing more bumps recently, and until the housing market stabilizes further we should expect some continued stresses in our financial markets.'' 
 Although Mr. Paulson acknowledged the need for broad reforms of the nation's existing regulatory structure, he sought to assure Americans that he expects the nation to ''work through this period,'' and ''emerge stronger and better poised for robust growth.''
 ''The American people have every reason to remain confident that the U.S. banking system is sound,'' he said. 
 Mr. Paulson spoke just a week after the government announced a plan to help prop up Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the giant mortgage buyers that were recently at the center of widespread market anxiety. The episode, Mr. Paulson said, made it ''all the more apparent'' that systemic reforms are necessary. 
 ''Now, more than ever, we need Fannie and Freddie out there, financing mortgages,'' he said. ''Their continued activity is central to the speed with which we emerge from this housing correction and remove the underlying uncertainty in our financial markets and financial institutions.''
 Mr. Paulson said there were currently no plans for the companies to tap any federal money, even though the administration's proposal calls for extending billions of dollars in credit if necessary. Asked about the effect of the plan on taxpayers, he said the credit lines offered a ''flexibility'' that ''minimizes the likelihood they will be used.''
 In his remarks, Mr. Paulson repeated his calls for greater transparency and effective regulation of the financial industry, saying such changes would ''add to market stability and mitigate the likelihood that a failing institution can spur a systemic event.''
 ''We need to get to the point where large, complex financial institutions are not perceived to be too big or too interconnected to fail,'' he said. He also singled out certain sophisticated markets -- including over-the-counter credit derivatives -- as particularly in need of greater oversight. 
 Mr. Paulson pointed to the recent failure of IndyMac Bancorp as an example of the government's ability through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to protect depositors when a large bank collapses. ''No one has or will lose a penny of insured deposits,'' he said. ''The F.D.I.C. took over the bank on a Friday, worked effectively over the weekend, and on Monday morning the bank reopened for business as usual.''
 In a question-and-answer session after his speech, Mr. Paulson tried to end the appearance on a more positive note. ''As I look around the world, I don't see other industrial nations, developed industrial nations that have better long-term prospects than we do,'' he said.
 Limited Role Seen for Fed
 KING OF PRUSSIA, Pa. (Reuters) -- The Federal Reserve has a limited role in a government plan to provide financial support for the ailing mortgage finance companies, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the president of the Philadelphia Federal Reserve, Charles I. Plosser, said Tuesday.
 ''We were not the lead instigators'' in the plan, Mr. Plosser said after a speech to local business leaders. ''The Fed is not intentionally seeking to expand its powers.''
 Mr. Plosser is a voting member this year on the Fed's interest rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee and is known to be one of the Fed's more hawkish members.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); BANK FAILURES (72%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (60%); ONEWEST BANK FSB (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (60%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (60%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



583 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: The Challenges of the Mideast, a High Priority for Both Campaigns

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: JERUSALEM 

 BODY:
As Senator Barack Obama arrived here early Wednesday, with his high-profile tours of Afghanistan and Iraq behind him, the perilous challenge facing any White House came into sharp view: navigating the Middle East peace process.
 A attack using a construction vehicle on Tuesday here outside the King David Hotel, where Mr. Obama is staying, was a fresh reminder of a task almost sure to be awaiting the next administration. Mr. Obama, who is set to meet with leaders in Israel and on the West Bank, hopes to avoid missteps that could complicate his relationship with Jewish voters at home or efforts to portray himself as neutral to Palestinian officials.
 ''It's unrealistic to expect that a U.S. president alone can suddenly snap his fingers and bring about peace in this region,'' Mr. Obama said on Tuesday. 
 He added, ''An ultimate resolution is going to involve two states standing side by side in peace and security and that the Israelis and the Palestinians are going to both have to make compromises in order to arrive at that two-state solution.''
 Mr. Obama, the presumed Democratic presidential nominee, has struggled to reassure Jewish voters and in doing so has angered some in the Arab world with his pro-Israel statements. Now, his meetings with Israeli and Palestinian leaders could well present the most politically trying day of his weeklong overseas trip.
 He is scheduled to meet individually on Wednesday with three Israeli officials: Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, Defense Minister Ehud Barak and President Shimon Peres. He is also scheduled to sit down with the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, and prime minister, Salam Fayyad, in Ramallah.
 The trip so far has been dominated by Mr. Obama's visit to Iraq, the focus of his news conference Tuesday in Amman, Jordan. He noted that the American troop escalation had bolstered Iraqi security but declared that he would not hesitate to overrule American commanders and redirect troops in Afghanistan.
 Mr. Obama traveled on to Israel with a contingent of foreign policy experts. His statements will be carefully examined, with both sides searching for any hints of favoritism and critics looking for gaffes. Even a slight misstatement at the news conference drew attention. ''Let me be absolutely clear,'' he said. ''Israel is a strong friend of Israel's.'' (Aides said he had intended to say that the United States was a strong friend of Israel.)
 Mr. Obama is also scheduled to tour the southern Israeli town of Sderot, near Gaza, which has been hit by more than 2,000 rockets in the past four years. It is a symbolic destination for visiting politicians, including Senator John McCain, who toured it in March.
 As he concluded the first part of his foreign trip, as part of a Congressional delegation visiting the two American war zones, Mr. Obama said ''security has improved in Iraq.'' Yet he declined to characterize the troop buildup in Iraq as a success.
 ''I think that the definition of success depends on how you look at it,'' Mr. Obama told reporters in Jordan. ''Originally, the administration suggested that the key measure was whether it gave breathing room for political reconciliation. So far, I think we have not seen the kind of political reconciliation that's going to bring about long-term stability in Iraq.''
 Mr. McCain and his campaign aides were sharply critical of Mr. Obama for the comments, saying that his failure to acknowledge the success of the surge was evidence of the failure of his foreign policy judgment.
 Mr. Obama appeared with the other members of the Congressional delegation at the Citadel in Amman. It was the first time on the trip Mr. Obama took extensive questions about what he had learned after meeting with commanders and troops in a three-day tour of Iraq and Afghanistan.
 Senators Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, and Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, joined Mr. Obama in expressing their support for putting a stronger military focus on Afghanistan. Mr. Obama lauded the efforts the American military had undertaken to reduce violence in Iraq. He conceded that the top American commander in Iraq, Gen. David H. Petraeus, and other American military officials had conveyed to him a resistance to setting a timetable for withdrawing troops.
 ''But keep in mind, for example, one of General Petraeus's responsibilities is not to think about how could we be using some of that $10 billion a month to shore up a U.S. economy that is really hurting right now,'' Mr. Obama said. ''If I'm president of the United States, that is part of my responsibility.''
 Tucker Bounds, a spokesman for Mr. McCain, criticized Mr. Obama, saying he had failed to listen to the guidance of American military commanders in Iraq. 
 ''By admitting that his plan for withdrawal places him at odds with Gen. David Petraeus, Barack Obama has made clear that his goal remains unconditional withdrawal rather than securing the victory our troops have earned,'' Mr. Bounds said. 
 Mr. Obama is making his first foreign trip as the presumptive Democratic nominee, and aides are focused on opportunities to show him in settings intended to make him look presidential.
 Not only is he meeting with presidents and prime ministers, he is also preparing to deliver an address on Thursday in Berlin about trans-Atlantic relations and the United States' place in the world. 
 Mr. Obama has even introduced a newly retrofitted airplane for his trip, which he intends to use for the remainder of the general election campaign. The white 757 has the campaign's horizonlike seal on its tail, with ''Change you can believe in'' emblazoned on the side.
 On Tuesday evening, Mr. Obama had a chance to show the plane to King Abdullah of Jordan, who drove him to the airport in a dark-gray Mercedes 600 Series, after dinner at his palace.
 When the Mercedes-filled motorcade arrived on the tarmac, cameras flashed as the king opened his door first, followed by Mr. Obama. The two stood at the steps to the plane, talking for several moments before saying their farewells.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); POLITICS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (64%); ARMED FORCES (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); EHUD OLMERT (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (57%); EHUD BARAK (55%); SHIMON PERES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (98%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); JORDAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



584 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Remarks to Employees by United's Chief

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of a message from Glenn F. Tilton, the chief executive of the UAL Corporation, the parent of United Airlines, to company employees.
 Good morning, it's Glenn. It's the 22nd of July, and I'm calling today from Chicago.
 This week, we will take an important step in our partnership with Continental when we and other immunized Star Alliance partners apply for approval to have Continental join our antitrust-immunized group of nine carriers in Star. This Department of Transportation application lays the foundation to a partnership that clearly has all the right elements for success: a shared commitment and understanding of the opportunities we can create together; and teams with the capabilities, attitude and relationships to make those opportunities a reality. This is the first of what we expect will be more joint ventures with Continental, work that takes on even greater importance in the current economic environment. 
 Later this morning I'll be joined by Jake Brace [the chief financial officer], John Tague [chief operating officer], Graham Atkinson [the customer officer] and Pete McDonald [chief administrative officer] to talk about our 2008 second-quarter results on a conference call with our investors and the analyst community, together with journalists who follow our industry.
 Our industry continues to be challenged by unprecedented fuel prices, most recently hitting an all-time high of $147 a barrel. In the second quarter alone our fuel expenses increased $773 million -- or more than 55 percent -- compared to the same time period last year. Excluding our previously announced $2.6 billion largely non-cash accounting charges, today we reported a $151 million net loss that was driven by these record-breaking fuel prices.
 Other airlines that have reported their quarterly results are facing the same challenges, and most have reported second quarter losses as well. Now, more so than ever before, it is important that we think differently, as we are with our Continental partnership, and take aggressive actions to offset these unprecedented fuel prices and strengthen our competitiveness.
 While our revenue results for the quarter were in line with our peers, we need to improve our performance to keep United in the leadership position we've had for the past 12 months. It is critical that we pursue new revenue streams like our new baggage, merchandising, ancillary fee and other opportunities that are worth in excess of $1 billion per year over the next few years.
 As many carriers -- led by United -- have shifted capacity to the international market, this has created new pressure on revenue. As such, to enable better revenue management, we are reducing our fourth-quarter international flying by 7 percent. We are eliminating routes that are not competitive in this fuel environment, such as Denver-London, Los Angeles-Frankfurt and San Francisco-Nagoya, closing our Nagoya station.
 We committed to reducing our fourth-quarter mainline domestic capacity by 16 percent year-over-year. As recently as last Thursday we removed some 50 routes from our domestic schedule, and will continue this process as we eliminate 100 airplanes from the fleet. By making these necessary flight reductions, we can optimize our revenue potential and improve our profitability.
 Our cost performance in the second quarter was encouraging, as we performed better than Wall Street's expectations, and maintained our cost guidance even as we reduced capacity.
 That said, as we fly fewer airplanes, we can reduce the costs that are necessary to run the airline. Today we announced that we're increasing our 2008 non-fuel cost reduction program by some $100 million to $500 million. All told, we will take the difficult but necessary step of reducing our work force by 7,000 -- including some 1,500 salaried and management staff by year end, and 5,500 front-line employees by the end of next year.
 It is important to know that we will continue to invest in safety and make strategic investments in high impact areas that improve our customers' travel experience.
 A critical issue across the industry is liquidity, and we are positioned well relative to our peers. We recently closed a number of transactions that add approximately $550 million in additional cash to our balance sheet, and we have several other actions under way, which we expect to announce over the next few months.
 As the entire industry faces these challenges, an unprecedented number of airlines, labor groups and industries like agriculture and trucking have come together with the Air Transport Association to call on Congress to stop oil speculation, which drives up both the volatility and the price of fuel. If you have not done so already, visit stopoilspeculationnow.com to learn more about the industry's effort and take action. We're hopeful that Congress will quickly enact legislation to improve the oversight and transparency of trading in these markets, as well as some governors on trading for pure speculation.
 While fuel continues to challenge our industry, it is critical that we get the basics right. We must focus on the fundamental work to strengthen the performance of our company and deliver the results that our customers, shareholders and employees expect.
 Today our industry is challenged as never before, and I very much appreciate the work that you are doing for our customers during the very busy summer travel season.
 That's all for now. I'll be talking to you again soon. Until then, stay focused on our customers, and of course on one another ... and stay united.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (86%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%)

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (96%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (96%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (96%)

PERSON: GLENN TILTON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



585 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: Health Plan From Obama Spurs Debate

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
It is one of the most audacious promises in a campaign that has been thick with them.
 In speech after speech, Senator Barack Obama has vowed that he will lower the country's health care costs enough to ''bring down premiums by $2,500 for the typical family.'' Moreover, Mr. Obama, the presumptive Democratic nominee, has promised that his health plan will be in place ''by the end of my first term as president of the United States.'' 
 Whether Mr. Obama can deliver is a matter of considerable dispute among health analysts and economists. While there is consensus that the American health care system is bloated with waste, eliminating enough to save $2,500 per family would require simultaneous and synergistic solutions to a host of problems that have proved intractable for decades.
 Even if the next president and Congress can muster the political will, analysts question whether significant savings would materialize in as little as four years, or even in 10. But as Mr. Obama confronts an electorate that is deeply unsettled by escalating health costs, he is offering a precise ''chicken in every pot'' guarantee based on numbers that are largely unknowable. Furthermore, it is not completely clear what he is promising. 
 His words about lowering ''premiums'' by $2,500 for the average family of four have been fairly consistent. But the health policy advisers who formulated the figure say it actually represents the average family's share of savings not only in premiums paid by individuals, but also in premiums paid by employers and in tax-supported health programs like Medicare and Medicaid. 
 ''What we're trying to do,'' said one of the advisers, David M. Cutler, in explaining the gap between Mr. Obama's words and his intent, ''is find a way to talk to people in a way they understand.''
 The original arithmetic was somewhat basic. In May 2007, three Harvard professors who are unpaid advisers to the Obama campaign -- Mr. Cutler, David Blumenthal and Jeffrey Liebman -- produced a memorandum offering their ''best guess'' that a menu of changes would produce savings of at least $200 billion a year (it has since been revised to $214 billion). That would amount to about 8 percent of the $2.5 trillion in health care spending projected for 2009, when the next president takes office. 
 The memorandum attributed specific savings to several broad initiatives, with the numbers plucked from recent studies. Investments in computerized medical records would save $77 billion a year, the advisers wrote. Reducing administrative costs in the insurance industry would yield up to $46 billion. Improving prevention programs and chronic disease management would be worth $81 billion.
 The total savings were then divided by the country's population, multiplied for a family of four, and rounded down slightly to a number that was easy to grasp: $2,500. The average cost of family coverage bought through an employer was $12,106 in 2007, with workers paying $3,281 of that amount, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation, a health research group. 
 Mr. Obama aspires to cover the country's 47 million uninsured by requiring insurers to accept all comers, regardless of their health status, and by providing generous tax credits to low-income workers. The tax credits could be used to buy into a new federal health plan or private plans marketed through a government exchange. 
 The subsidies are expensive, estimated at well over $100 billion. Other components of the Obama plan also bear up-front costs, like a pledge to spend $50 billion over five years to speed the computerization of health records, $6 billion a year on tax credits to small businesses that provide coverage to workers, and an unspecified amount to buffer businesses from high-cost insurance claims.
 The source Mr. Obama has identified to pay for them -- the repeal of President Bush's tax cuts for those making more than $250,000 -- would cover only about half. That means additional health care savings would be needed, not only to keep premiums under control but also to help pay for the subsidies. 
 A consensus has emerged among health economists that at least a third of the country's spending on health care is unnecessary. Both Mr. Obama, of Illinois, and his Republican rival, Senator John McCain of Arizona, agree that significant sums could be saved through reductions in unneeded procedures and improvements in electronic record-keeping, prevention and chronic disease management.
 But the dollar values Mr. Obama has attached to individual components of his plan are beginning to attract scrutiny. In particular, the Congressional Budget Office issued a report in May questioning the amount to be saved from the computerization of health systems.
 Mr. Obama took his estimate of $77 billion a year from a 2005 study by the RAND Corporation (which cautioned that reductions of that magnitude would not emerge for 15 years). The Congressional analysts found, however, that for various methodological reasons the RAND study was ''not an appropriate guide'' to potential savings.
 This month, Mr. Obama's health advisers tried to recast the debate so that the questioning of any one number would not undermine the plan's broader credibility. They enlisted eight health policy experts to sign a letter that, without endorsing the math behind any single initiative, proclaimed it was ''not only possible, but likely'' that Mr. Obama could save $200 billion annually. They did not say by when.
 Mr. Cutler, who helped collect the signatures, said he and his colleagues had decided ''that our attempt to lay out one plausible scenario for the savings had created more problems than it had solved.'' He added: ''Putting the debate where this message puts it -- do you believe we can save 8 percent of health spending through a major series of public and private reforms -- asks the question in a way that is much more productive than the issue of 'Do you believe a single estimate among many, many studies?' ''
 Mr. Obama's economic policy director, Jason Furman, said the campaign's estimates were conservative and asserted that much of the savings would come quickly. ''We think we could get to $2,500 in savings by the end of the first term, or be very close to it,'' Mr. Furman said.
 The campaign won additional backing this week from Kenneth E. Thorpe of Emory University, an authority on health care costs who helped formulate Bill Clinton's failed plan in 1993. In an assessment that he initiated in coordination with the campaign, Mr. Thorpe wrote that if all of Mr. Obama's proposals were enacted they would reduce health spending by between $203 billion and $273 billion by 2012. He calculated that half of the savings would accrue to the federal government.
 The Obama advisers said that while not all of the savings would translate into lower premiums, consumers would gain in other ways. The savings to employers would be passed along as higher wages, they predicted, and the savings to government would eventually mean either lower taxes or added benefits.
 But whether employers and governments respond that way cannot be guaranteed, particularly in a difficult economy. And a number of health policy experts have questioned whether the $2,500 projection is either fiscally or politically realistic. Reducing health care costs, they emphasized, means taking money from someone's pocket and rationing care that Americans have come to expect, a recipe for stiff resistance.
 ''There is no easy money because, as the saying goes, one person's fraud and abuse is another person's income,'' said Joseph R. Antos of the American Enterprise Institute. ''I wouldn't thinkthat four years or eight years or probably 10 years will be enough to see numbers of that sort.''
 The Commonwealth Fund, a health research group in New York, published a study in December projecting that a robust overhaul consisting of 15 broad initiatives would generate savings of only 6 percent after 10 years. ''Doing it by the end of a first term is ambitious and would require tough policies,'' said Karen Davis, the group's president.
 Jonathan B. Oberlander, who teaches health policy at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, called it wishful thinking. ''Do they have the potential to generate significant savings in the long run?'' Dr. Oberlander asked. ''Yes. Do I believe they will produce substantial savings in the short run that can be used to finance Obama's plan? No.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Barack Obama, who visited Amman, Jordan, on Tuesday, has made an ambitious proposal on health care. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 David M. Cutler, an adviser to the Obama campaign. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK FRIEDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); FAMILY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MEDICAL RECORDS (77%); CHRONIC DISEASES (72%); MEDICARE (72%); INSURANCE (72%); MEDICAID (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMMAN, JORDAN (59%) UNITED STATES (93%); JORDAN (59%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



586 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: A Private, Blunter Bush Declares, 'Wall Street Got Drunk'

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
When he talks about why the economy is ailing, President Bush often turns to euphemism, citing ''challenges in the housing and financial markets.'' But Mr. Bush offered a far blunter assessment last week at a closed Republican fund-raiser in Houston: ''Wall Street got drunk.'' 
 Despite the president's request that those present turn their cameras off, his comments were captured on videotape that made its way into the hands of Miya Shay, a reporter at the Houston television affiliate of ABC.
 The video, which also included the newsy tidbit that Laura Bush had begun shopping for houses in Dallas, was broadcast by the station, and by Tuesday it was appearing as well on the Web site of The Houston Chronicle.
 ''Wall Street got drunk -- that's one reason I asked you to turn off your TV cameras,'' the president said at the fund-raiser, held at a private home on Friday to benefit Pete Olson, the Republican who is challenging Representative Nick Lampson. ''It got drunk, and now it's got a hangover. The question is, How long will it sober up and not try to do all these fancy financial instruments?''
 The sentiments were no different from those Mr. Bush has voiced in public, said Tony Fratto, the deputy White House press secretary. 
 ''The president has made this point before,'' Mr. Fratto said, adding, ''What the president is referring to is the fact that the markets were using very complex financial instruments that had grown up over the years, and when confronted with the shock of this housing downturn, they did not fully understand what the consequences were going to be.''
 Mr. Bush, for one, might be expected to benefit from the buyers' market, though he seemed to lament a belief that he would not. ''And then we got a housing issue,'' he said, ''not in Houston -- evidently not in Dallas, because Laura's over there trying to buy a house today.''
 The crowd laughed, and Mr. Bush went on to explain that Mrs. Bush had drawn the line against living at the couple's Crawford ranch. ''I like Crawford,'' he said. ''Unfortunately, after eight years of asking her to sacrifice, I am no longer the decision maker. She'll be deciding.'' 
 There was no word from the White House on Tuesday about what kind of home the Bushes had their eyes on. But in Houston, Mr. Bush said he had offered his wife some guidance: ''I did tell her, I said: 'Honey, we've been on government pay now for 14 years. Go slow.' ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); NICK LAMPSON (58%); PETE OLSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



587 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Offers a Subsidy Concession at Trade Talks

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
GENEVA (AP) -- The United States took the first bold step in a week of crucial trade talks Tuesday, slicing $1.4 billion from a previous offer to limit contentious, trade-distorting subsidies to American farmers.
 The United States Trade Representative, Susan C. Schwab, told a news conference that Washington was prepared to rewrite elements of its recently passed farm bill to ensure that American subsidies deemed to unfairly enhance the competitiveness of American farmers were limited to $15 billion annually. 
 While Congress may view the move skeptically, the Bush administration's top negotiator shifted pressure on Brazil, India and other emerging economies to open up their markets for industrial goods -- a crucial demand of rich countries in the World Trade Organization's seven-year-old trade round.
 Emerging countries have demanded a cap closer to $12 billion for the United States, noting that actual American subsidies have fallen to around $9 billion a year amid higher prices for basic commodities.
 The poorer countries say the payments are providing farmers in developed economies an unfair advantage that hinders Third World development. But the Bush administration and Congress have sought flexibility in case crop prices fall and American farmers need greater support.
 Washington is currently allowed to distribute more than $48 billion in subsidies linked to price, production and other trade-distorting criteria. It agreed last year to come to at least below $16.4 billion in a move that generated criticism for American farm groups. The European Union and Japan are also offering steep cuts in subsidy limits.
 ''Anyone who understands farm programs will understand how significant the reduction is implied by this number,'' Ms. Schwab said, noting that United States subsidies have exceeded her proposed limit in 7 of the last 10 years.
 Without a global trade deal, they may exceed $15 billion again as part of the United States' new five-year farm bill worth nearly $300 billion that Congress passed over President Bush's veto.
 Ms. Schwab described the concession as a ''major move, taken in good faith, with the expectation that others will reciprocate and step forward with improved market access'' for farm and industrial exports.
 Rich and poor countries have clashed repeatedly in the W.T.O. talks started in Qatar's capital in 2001, and now known as the Doha round. Developing nations want to reduce agricultural tariffs and subsidies in rich countries so they can sell more of their produce, while the United States, European Union and others seek better conditions in emerging economies for their manufacturers, banks, insurers and telecommunications companies.
 Negotiators are hoping for agreement this week on a deal that would liberalize world agriculture and manufacturing, setting the stage for an overall trade accord by the end of the year. But there is widespread skepticism.
 Ms. Schwab said her move showed leadership.
 ''Here's the catch: We are making this offer without actually knowing what others will do,'' she said in Geneva. ''For this round to succeed as a developing round, all of the main developed and emerging market players will be faced with hard decisions.''
 Brazil and India, as co-leaders of a broad coalition of developing countries, have resisted cuts in manufacturing tariffs that would create new opportunities for automakers, machinery and electronics from the United States, Europe and Japan.
 Brazil's foreign minister declined to say how it would respond, and instead criticized the United States offer as not going far enough. ''I hope this is not the last offer,'' the minister, Celso Amorim, said. ''It's a very low level of ambition.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURE (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); VETO (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); INSURANCE (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); INDIA (79%); QATAR (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



588 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Uprising Against the Ethanol Mandate

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
The ethanol industry, until recently a golden child that got favorable treatment from Washington, is facing a critical decision on its future.
 Gov. Rick Perry of Texas is asking the Environmental Protection Agency to temporarily waive regulations requiring the oil industry to blend ever-increasing amounts of ethanol into gasoline. A decision is expected in the next few weeks.
 Mr. Perry says the billions of bushels of corn being used to produce all that mandated ethanol would be better suited as livestock feed than as fuel. 
 Feed prices have soared in the last two years as fuel has begun competing with food for cropland.
 ''When you find yourself in a hole, you have to quit digging,'' Mr. Perry said in an interview. ''And we are in a hole.''
 His request for an emergency waiver cutting the ethanol mandate to 4.5 billion gallons, from the 9 billion gallons required this year and the 10.5 billion required in 2009, is backed by a coalition of food, livestock and environmental groups. 
 Farmers and ethanol and other biofuel producers are lobbying to keep the existing mandates.
 ''This is a critically important decision that will determine the future of biofuels in this country,'' said Brent Erickson, a lobbyist at the Biotechnology Industry Organization, which supports the ethanol mandates. ''There will be a dramatic reaction from whoever loses.''
 The E.P.A. received 15,000 public comments on the Texas proposal, roughly split between those in favor and those against. 
 LHT Inc., an infrastructure company, said it never would have spent tens of millions of dollars developing delivery pipes for ethanol without the mandated increases. ''How do we get our money back?'' an executive asked. 
 O.K. Industries, a poultry company in Arkansas upset about rising feed costs, said this was the first year since the company was founded during the Great Depression that it could not afford to give its employees a wage increase.
 An agency spokesman said the E.P.A. can approve the request, deny it or take a middle path. The deadline is Thursday, but the agency says it needs more time to review public comments and formulate a decision. 
 The agency's authority derives from a 2005 energy law that sets some of the most important ethanol quotas. The law says states can petition the agency for a reduction in the ethanol mandates on the grounds of severe harm to the economy or environment. Decisions must be made after consultation with the secretaries of energy and agriculture.
 Ethanol is under siege from other quarters. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas, has introduced legislation calling for a freeze of the mandate at the current level, saying it ''is clearly causing unintended consequences on food prices.'' The measure is co-sponsored by 11 other Republican senators, including John McCain, the presumptive presidential nominee.
 The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, testified last week that ''it would be helpful'' to remove a 51-cent-a-gallon tariff on imported Brazilian ethanol. If Brazilian ethanol enters the United States market, domestic producers argue, the industry will suffer. 
 In a new report, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development is critical of biofuels, saying further development will raise food prices while doing little for energy security. 
 But the attempts to undercut ethanol are proving divisive. Mr. Perry said he hoped the other 49 governors would join him, but was able to cite only one that had: Gov. M. Jodi Rell of Connecticut. (A spokesman for Mrs. Rell declined to offer a full-fledged endorsement of Mr. Perry's initiative, saying she supported a modification of the mandate but had not made any specific proposals.) 
 In ethanol's home ground of the Midwest, where much of the corn is grown and the additive is made, Mr. Perry's petition was opposed by 12 governors. Senator Charles Grassley, Republican of Iowa, accused the Grocery Manufacturers Association, the group leading the public relations fight against ethanol, of ''treasonous'' acts. 
 Mr. Perry is also being accused of bad motives. The Houston Chronicle reported that his interest in a rollback developed after Lonnie Pilgrim, senior chairman of the East Texas chicken company Pilgrim's Pride, donated $100,000 to the Republican Governors Association, of which Mr. Perry is the chairman.
 The governor brushed aside such concerns. ''I have always been of the position that when your opposition has to point to a political contribution rather than trying to make their debate on the issues, they might be losing,'' he said.
 Corn growers and ethanol producers believe they are being made scapegoats for failed economic and energy policies. Corn futures have already dropped sharply from the record highs set a month ago. Midwest weather has been favorable in recent weeks, raising expectations for the size and quality of the crop. 
 Mark Williams, who grows corn on 2,500 acres in the Texas panhandle, dreads a further price drop. ''Our costs have increased so much, we need a pretty good price to make a little living,'' he said. Furthermore, he added that it would be unfair to change the rules at this point. ''We bought fertilizer and corn seed, decided our crop mix on the basis of ethanol being where it was. To change that mandate in the middle of our growing season, that's really not right.''
 A cut in the mandate might be the beginning of a slippery slope that could mark the end for ethanol, said Lee Reeve, one of the pioneers of the industry. His Garden City, Kan., plant has been in operation since 1982. ''If this goes through, I guarantee you that by next Thursday there would be arguments about how we should get rid of the mandate entirely,'' he said. ''And where are you going to find the oil to replace eight or nine billion gallons of ethanol?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A shipment of milo, a sorghum grain, being unloaded at the Reeve Agri-Energy ethanol plant near Garden City, Kan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MALONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C1)
At the Reeve plant near Garden City, Kan., grain is made into ethanol, and the byproducts are fed to cattle in the adjacent feedlot.
 A mixture of yeast, enzymes and urea is poured into a batch of milo grain for fermenting into ethanol at the Reeve plant. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (93%); ETHANOL (93%); ALCOHOLS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (90%); BIOMASS (90%); LOBBYING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LIVESTOCK FEED (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (76%); FOOD PRICES (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); POULTRY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LEGISLATION (69%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (50%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



589 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: A Time for Urgency

 BODY:
In the nearly two weeks since he announced a plan to rescue Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac from insolvency, if need be, Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson has insisted that it is vital for Congress to approve the proposal quickly, preferably, this week. To help ensure quick approval, it has been attached to a larger foreclosure prevention bill that Congress is finalizing. 
 Unfortunately, support for swift passage is mixed from one important quarter: Mr. Paulson's boss, President Bush. 
 On Monday, the White House renewed its threat to veto the foreclosure prevention bill if it contains a $4 billion block grant program for states to buy up foreclosed properties. The veto threat is misguided, first, on policy grounds. Mr. Bush wrongly portrays the grant as a handout to speculators when its main thrust actually is to protect communities from a destabilizing buildup of abandoned, unsold homes. 
 The veto threat also is a bad idea politically. Mr. Bush has not objected when the big firms and rich executives of Wall Street have been on the receiving end of federal assistance, but now he is threatening to block a measure to aid hard-hit neighborhoods filled with ordinary Americans. Worst of all, at this juncture in the year-old financial crisis, when perceived weakness of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac threaten global financial upheaval, Mr. Bush's veto threat undermines the urgency that his treasury secretary is rightly seeking to convey. That complicates passage of the rescue plan and presents a picture of policy disarray to the rest of the world. 
 The purpose of the rescue proposal -- which would allow the Treasury Department to use taxpayer dollars to buy obligations and securities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, if needed, to keep the companies afloat -- is to restore confidence in the United States' ability and commitment to contain the financial crisis. If Mr. Bush himself is a roadblock -- and lawmakers, following his cue, find their own reasons to delay and finagle -- confidence will be damaged, not bolstered. 
 Mr. Paulson must also acknowledge, more clearly than he has so far, that he is asking Congress to approve a plan that puts taxpayers at great risk. He has been playing down that risk to date, feeding public insecurity rather than reducing it.
 In an interview on Tuesday with reporters and editors at The Times, Mr. Paulson said the risk of taxpayer loss was lessened because Fannie and Freddie had ''good'' collateral for any loans they may receive. But the audit of the two companies by federal regulators is not yet complete, and, in fact, questions remain about the quality of the assets the companies hold and guarantee. 
 On Tuesday, the Congressional Budget Office reported that 15 percent of their portfolios --$780 billion -- is composed of assets that are subprime or Alt-A, the level just above subprime. The budget agency believes that there's a better than 50 percent chance that the government would never have to step in to bailout the companies. But if it had to, the sums could be huge. 
 Mr. Paulson should be upfront with Americans about the risk and explain that the best way to deal with it is to develop a comprehensive response. He should also be frank about the far worse risks of delay and inaction. Foreign purchases of Fannie and Freddie obligations comprise a big chunk of the billions of dollars that the United States needs every day just to balance its books. Confidence in the companies is inseparable from confidence in the dollar itself. 
 The president must lead and Congress must act, and in a timely way. The nation's leaders bear enormous responsibility for their inaction as the financial crisis developed. They should not compound that sin by failing to take the necessary, if politically unpopular, steps to clean up the mess they helped to create. And they must take those steps soon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETO (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



590 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: CNN Trains Its Lens On Race

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
The notion that there is something called ''black America'' is a subject of debate. But in a year that marks both the 40th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Senator Barack Obama's rise to become the presumptive Democratic nominee for president, CNN set out to explore how black people are feeling, thinking and doing. 
 That 18-month effort, which involved extensive research and a comprehensive national poll, has been spun into two two-hour documentaries, to be broadcast this week. ''Black in America: The Black Woman and Family'' will be shown Wednesday night; ''Black in America: The Black Man'' will be broadcast Thursday. 
 While viewers will catch sight of a few celebrities -- Spike Lee, Whoopi Goldberg, Russell Simmons -- most of the reports use ordinary people to flesh out topics like the education gap, the state of the black middle class, the AIDS epidemic, single parenthood and black men behind bars. 
 ''I was sent out to do stories that are underreported,'' Soledad O'Brien, the reporter for the programs, said in an interview. ''It fit with personal interest.'' Like Mr. Obama, Ms. O'Brien, a 42-year-old CNN anchor and special correspondent, is biracial. She has a black mother from Cuba and a white father from Australia. 
 ''I think people are very interested in a conversation about race; part of it is Barack Obama, part of it is Katrina,'' Ms. O'Brien said. ''Especially among young blacks we interviewed who considered themselves leaders, they said it's time to take the reins and figure out where we go from here.''
 The series began in April with Ms. O'Brien's two-hour investigation into conspiracy theories about King's assassination. Mark Nelson, vice president and senior executive producer for CNN Productions, said the project was born of the channel's diversity initiative.
 ''We question ourselves; we look at the stories we are doing,'' Mr. Nelson said. The channel's executives concluded that too many reports in the news media about black lives were told in mostly negative snippets and deserved a bigger platform. ''What's a more complex story in America than race?'' Mr. Nelson asked. 
 The project has a Web component, CNN.com/blackinamerica, which features excerpts from the series and interviews with some of the experts and subjects. The programs will also be available on iTunes. 
 In Wednesday's program, Bishop T. D. Jakes, the pastor of the Potter's House, a 30,000-member church in Dallas, talks about single-parent homes. The number of black children born to unwed mothers has almost tripled since the mid-1960s to almost 70 percent of births, Ms. O'Brien says.
 ''It's detrimental to boys because a father kind of gives you some sort of preview of where you're going,'' Bishop Jakes says, adding, ''but for girls it is dangerous, because they are enamored with male attention to the degree that they'll do anything to get the love of a man that they should have gotten at home.''
 Ira Johnson, a single mother of five teenage children (one adopted), talks about having had four children by the same man by the time she was 29. Why not get married, Ms. O'Brien asks, as Ms. Johnson recounts her hardships.
 ''I was young,'' Ms. Johnson says. ''But I was also depressed, and I didn't know I was depressed because I didn't know about depression. But I knew something was wrong with me, and I just didn't tell anybody.'' 
 Some of the problems seem tied together, says Julianne Malveaux, the president of Bennett College for Women in Greensboro, N.C., talking about the statistic that 45 percent of black women are unmarried, twice the number for white women. She looks at the mismatch between what some women require in mates and what exists. 
 ''There are a couple of things we should look at,'' she says. ''There are a million more black women working today than African-American men. If employment is a requirement, there's already a gap. And so we know that exists. If education is a requirement, that's a gap.'' Ms. Malveaux was referring to the statistic, cited by Ms. O'Brien, that there are nearly twice as many black women in college as black men. 
 Ms. O'Brien also drops in on a group of fourth graders at Public School 399 in Brooklyn who are participating in a controversial experiment, devised by Roland G. Fryer Jr., a Harvard University economist. The students earn money for high test scores. It is part of an effort to boost the test scores of black students, only half of whom graduate from high school in four years compared with 70 percent of whites nationally, Ms. O'Brien says. 
 She visits the home of one student, Eric Kennedy Jr., who uses a trash can to substitute for a basketball hoop. He is going into fifth grade. The family has moved so many times that he has already attended five schools. Young Eric says he will give some of his money to his father, the single head of the family. 
 ''It's just encouraging us to do more work,'' the youngster says of the test experiment. 
 Mr. Fryer says: ''I'm not trying to focus on incentives without thinking about teacher quality and other things. But, as one step in that direction, let's see how much of the test-score gap we can get back if kids are fundamentally motivated.'' 
 In ''The Black Man,'' Mr. Fryer tells his own story of growing up poor in Daytona Beach, Fla., knowing that his aunt, uncle and cousins ran one of the biggest crack rings in the state. 
 Those kinds of tales of success springing from deprivation come at a time of a growing class divide among blacks, Ms. O'Brien says. The divide is explored Thursday night in a look at the lives of the men of the 1968 class of Central High School in Little Rock, Ark., which was desegregated in 1957 under armed guard. Viewers meet James Warren, who became an assistant superintendent of schools, as well as his classmate Kenneth Roy Allen (now called the Rev. Akono Ekundayo), who became a thief and a crack addict before turning his life around.
 Ms. O' Brien notes that the number of black-owned businesses has increased 45 percent in the last decade. But, she says, there are more black men behind bars now than at any time in history.
 ''Black Americans think there is a black America,'' Ms. O'Brien said in the interview. ''It's a metaphor for a chunk of experiences. Every black person will tell you that white people need to understand black people: they don't know our players, but we have to know their players.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Soledad O'Brien (pg.E1)
 Eric Kennedy Sr. is the single father of Manyarah and Eric Jr. in Brooklyn. Eric Jr. is in a program to boost school performance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LAROSE/CNN) (pg.E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ASSASSINATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (87%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); PARENTING (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PARENTS (76%); MEN (74%); CHILDREN (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (57%); AIDS & HIV (54%); EPIDEMICS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



591 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: Vodafone Cuts Revenue Forecast

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
New evidence that the European economic slowdown was hitting consumers emerged Tuesday as the Vodafone Group, the British cellphone operator, warned that its results would suffer.
 ''There's a big macroenomic picture that's playing through, and frankly, as a company, we're not immune to it,'' the chief executive, Arun Sarin, said in a conference call. 
 He said Vodafone, the world's largest cellphone operator, was cutting its revenue forecast for the year to around $79.6 billion, the lower end of its previous estimate. 
 Mr. Sarin said business was weaker in Britain and throughout Europe, but that the picture was particularly bleak in Spain, which like Britain, Ireland and the United States, was undergoing a painful adjustment as a property bubble deflated. 
 The decline in the Spanish housing industry has led many of its customers among the migrant work force there to go home. As a result, revenue growth in the Spanish market has stalled after years of 10 percent or more annual increases. 
 ''The business isn't falling apart,'' he said, ''but within this business that's a segment that's having a hard time.'' 
 He noted that the company had not changed its forecast for full-year profit of $:11 billion to $:11.5 billion or $21.9 billion to $22.9 billion. Shares of Vodafone fell nearly 15 percent in London afternoon trading, giving them a loss of nearly 21 percent in the last 12 months. Telefonica, Vodafone's main rival in Spain, fell 7.4 percent in Madrid. 
 Mark James, an analyst at Collins Stewart, said telecommunications companies had displayed remarkable resistance to the economic slowdown, but that Vodafone had shown that they could not hold out indefinitely. 
 ''The Spanish and U.K. telecoms markets, resilient to the economic slowdown to date, finally look to have cracked,'' he told Reuters. 
 Results from Ericsson, the Swedish maker of wireless networking gear, also hurt technology stocks. Ericsson's shares fell 9.3 percent in Stockholm after it said second-quarter net profit fell 70 percent, to about $320 million from a year earlier. Revenue rose 2 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); EXECUTIVES (57%); CONFERENCE CALLS (56%); MIGRANT WORKERS (53%)

COMPANY: VODAFONE GROUP PLC (91%); TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (82%); COLLINS STEWART HAWKPOINT PLC (53%)

TICKER: VOD (NASDAQ) (91%); VOD (LSE) (91%); ERIC.B (STO) (82%); ERIC.A (STO) (82%); ERIC (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: ARUN SARIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (79%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (75%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) SPAIN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (92%); SWEDEN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



592 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Leadership In India Survives Major Vote

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: NEW DELHI 

 BODY:
The Indian government survived a confidence vote in Parliament on Tuesday evening, paving the way for India to seal a landmark nuclear agreement with the United States. But the entire parliamentary process was tainted by allegations of bribery made on the floor of the house. 
 Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who initiated the confidence motion, won 275 votes, while his opponents secured 256 votes, and 11 members abstained. It was a wider margin of victory than politics watchers had predicted, and it came on the heels of two days of acrimonious debate and constant heckling, some of it directed at Mr. Singh, who was unable to finish his closing speech to the legislature. 
 The significance of the vote goes well beyond the survival of Mr. Singh's administration, or even the fate of the one policy issue on which he has staked his legacy: an agreement initiated by the Bush administration more than two years ago to allow India access to nuclear fuel and technology on the world market. 
 After the confidence vote, which Mr. Singh called ''a convincing victory,'' he told reporters that he hoped it would signal to the world that ''India is prepared to take its rightful place in the comity of nations.'' 
 Mr. Singh pushed the deal as vital to India's acceptance as a nuclear power and essential for the country to meet the energy needs of a growing economy, which has been hampered by dire power shortages.
 Not least, the nuclear deal was hailed by his government and the Bush administration as a centerpiece of an effort to deepen a partnership; Mr. Singh's former supporters in the Communist parties deeply opposed the accord for precisely that reason. 
 The accord now depends on the approval of the International Atomic Energy Agency and the Nuclear Suppliers Group, and would then go before the United States Congress for a final vote. It has been divisive in Congress as well as an exception to American policies against the spread of nuclear materials. 
 ''We think that we can move forward with this,'' Dana M. Perino, the White House press secretary, said, but ''there aren't that many days left where Congress is going to be in session.''
 Even after the tortuous road to the nuclear agreement, India's strategic relationship with the United States remains troubled by several major disagreements, including Indian policy on Iran and Myanmar.
 ''India may be 'emerging,' but it will be a very high-maintenance friend when it comes to any strategic partnership,'' Stephen P. Cohen, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, said by e-mail. 
 In this country, the real impact of Tuesday's vote will be felt in the coming months, as major and minor parties in India's deeply fractured political system prepare for the next national elections, which must be held by May. The confidence vote has significantly rearranged old political alliances, sharpened the divide between political adversaries and threatened to intensify public cynicism toward elected leaders. 
 ''The polite veils that are thrown over the workings of democracy have been lifted,'' said the political analyst and president of the nonpartisan Center for Policy Research, Pratap Bhanu Mehta. ''Politics is going to get really, really ugly.''
 The two-day debate in Parliament was at its most rambunctious late Tuesday afternoon. Three lawmakers with the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party, or B.J.P., accused Mr. Singh's new allies, with a North Indian regional party called Samajwadi, of offering them roughly $750,000 each in exchange for abstaining from the confidence vote. 
 The allegation was made barely two hours before the scheduled vote. B.J.P. lawmakers stormed the well of Parliament, waving wads of cash and forcing Parliament to adjourn. B.J.P. leaders soon appeared before television cameras to detail the bribery allegations, and Samajwadi leaders went on air to deny the accusations and accuse senior B.J.P. leaders of bribery attempts. 
 A private television news station, CNN-IBN, said it had acquired what it called a ''cash for vote'' tape in the course of an investigation into bribery allegations. The station did not broadcast the tape, but said it had handed it over to the speaker of Parliament, Somnath Chatterjee. 
 Whether any money changed hands, how, and between whom, is not likely to be resolved soon. 
 Tuesday's victory in Parliament could allow Mr. Singh's government to remain in power until next May, when its five-year term expires, but not without serious challenges to its credibility and its political future. 
 After losing the support of the Communists, the government secured the backing of the Samajwadi Party, an archrival that until recently had been among the loudest anti-American voices in Parliament. It also won support from several smaller parties. 
 The Communists linked arms with a party they had frequently criticized, led by the most prominent politician from the so-called low-caste Dalits, Kumari Mayawati. Together with the B.J.P., they sought to bring down Mr. Singh's government. 
 Mohammed Salim of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) accused the government on Monday of betraying its allies at home for the sake of a partnership with the United States. 
 The finance minister, Palaniappan Chidambaram, jabbed at the Communists on Tuesday without naming them, suggesting that ''some people'' supported China's advance while holding India back. ''I want India to become an economic power,'' he told Parliament, ''an economic superpower.'' His comments were met with angry gibes and arm-waving from the Communists.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Members of the governing Congress Party celebrated Tuesday in New Delhi in front of a poster of Sonia Gandhi, the party chief. Their bloc won a confidence vote.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GURINDER OSAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POWER FAILURES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); BRIBERY (72%); APPROVALS (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (69%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (79%); SONIA GANDHI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



593 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2231 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times: July 23, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL 
 KURDS BOYCOTT ELECTION LEGISLATION, 
 Probably Delaying Vote by Months
 The Iraqi Parliament approved legislation to govern provincial elections, but Kurdish lawmakers boycotted the session, vowing to force the measure to be rewritten, which would probably delay provincial elections for months. ''This vote has ruined the atmosphere of harmony which dominated Iraq in the recent period,'' said Khalid al-Attiya, the deputy speaker of Parliament and an independent Shiite. ''It paralyzed the elections. The chance of having an election during this year has been lost.'' PAGE A6 
 PALESTINIAN PLOWS INTO ISRAEL TRAFFIC
 For the second time in a month, a Palestinian plowed a large construction vehicle into traffic on a busy Jerusalem street before being shot dead. The attack, which left 16 people injured, took place in an upscale hotel district where Senator Barack Obama, the presumptive Democratic nominee for American president, was to stay. PAGE A6 
 CHaVEZ IN RUSSIA TO DISCUSS TIES
 President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela and President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia declared that their countries would more closely coordinate their actions on global oil and gas markets and that they would work together on foreign policy, a sphere in which both countries have sought to counter American influence. Mr. Chavez is expected to sign contracts to buy more than $1 billion worth of Russian arms. PAGE A11 
 CAMBODIA ASKS U.N. FOR HELP
 Calling a border confrontation with Thailand ''an imminent state of war,'' Cambodia asked the United Nations and its Southeast Asian neighbors to intervene as hundreds of soldiers faced off for the eighth day on the grounds of a disputed Hindu temple. Troops from both sides remained camped there. PAGE A8 
 CHINESE SAID TO LEAD IN OPTIMISM
 The Chinese people hold strikingly positive views of their national economy and the direction their country is heading, ranking first in both measures among 24 countries recently surveyed, the Pew Research Center said. Eighty-six percent of Chinese people surveyed said they were content with the country's direction, while only 23 percent of people surveyed from the United States said the same. PAGE A8 
 THE LAND OF 350 MILLION SMOKERS
 China's decade of halfhearted public campaigns against tobacco may finally be gaining traction. The municipal government banned cigarettes in schools, railway stations and office buildings, for instance, and Chinese athletes are no longer permitted to accept tobacco company sponsorships. But the impact might elude visitors next month. ''If I point to the no-smoking sign, the passenger will just laugh and keep smoking,'' says one cabdriver. PAGE A8 
 National
 MCCAIN BLASTS OBAMA 
 On Foreign Policy
 At a raucous town hall meeting in New Hampshire, Senator John McCain said Senator Barack Obama ''would rather lose a war in order to win a political campaign.'' And while Mr. McCain's advisers said he would be talking about jobs and other bread-and-butter issues of concern to voters while Mr. Obama met with heads of state overseas, his campaign has in fact been in constant reaction mode to Mr. Obama's lavishly covered foreign trip. PAGE A16
 DETAINEE'S TRIAL BEGINS
 In his opening statement at the war crimes trial of Salim Hamdan at Guantanamo Bay, a military prosecutor said Mr. Hamdan's job as driver and bodyguard in Afghanistan was a vital role in Osama bin Laden's jihad. The defense painted a different picture, saying Mr. Hamdan was little more than a wage worker on Mr. bin Laden's personal payroll. PAGE A17
 A Band Camp With Cachet
 Marching bands occupy a vaunted position at the nation's historically black colleges, often outshining the football teams at whose games they perform. But none, arguably, can claim a higher profile than Florida A&M's, known as the Marching 100. It also attracts plenty of acolytes, and as enrollment at its grueling summer band camp has soared, the geographical and racial range of the attendees has expanded, as well. PAGE A13
 ARTWORK IN NEED OF SANDING
 Ray Murphy claims he invented the increasingly popular genre of chain-saw art as an 11-year-old in a Wyoming logging family, when he started carving animals from logs. He has developed enough of a following to have nightly shows in which he attacks pieces of wood with one of three chain saws in the town of Hancock, Me. Tickets are $10 each. ''It's so unique that people don't quite get it,'' Mr. Murphy said. PAGE A14
 FACING THE MIDEAST QUANDARY
 Senator Barack Obama arrived in Jerusalem facing a challenge that has dogged many a White House hopeful: navigating the Middle East peace process. While there, Mr. Obama is set to meet with leaders in Israel and on the West Bank and hopes to avoid any missteps that could complicate his relationship with Jewish voters at home or efforts to be seen as neutral by Palestinian officials. PAGE A16
 Trees Vs. Solar Panels A13
 Metro
 MAYOR ORDERS CITY AGENCIES
 To Provide Language Aid
 An estimated 170 languages are spoken in New York City, which makes it hard both for immigrants trying to navigate the city's bureaucracy and for the city trying to help them. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg ordered the city's more than 100 agencies to provide language assistance in six foreign languages, requiring the agencies to follow the same standards when providing translation and interpretation to non-English-speaking New Yorkers. PAGE B2 
 OFFICIALS CRITICIZE FARE INCREASE
 The Metropolitan Transportation Authority's proposal to raise transit fares next year in order to make up a projected budget shortfall of nearly $900 million didn't go over so well with some top officials: the mayor, City Council speaker and Assembly speaker pledged to oppose it, and the governor told the agency to ''explore other options.'' PAGE B1 
 Business
 AS CUSTOMERS JETTISON LANDLINES,
 AT&T Wonders What's Next
 The good news for AT&T is that consumers are snapping up the latest model of the iPhone, for which it remains the exclusive carrier. The bad news is that people are dropping their landline service, from which it still gets 32 percent of its revenue. And like other telephone companies, AT&T is seeing its growth slow: there are few people left to whom the company can market a cellphone. PAGE C1
 RUMORS WEIGH DOWN APPLE SHARES
 Is Steve Jobs ill? Though the Apple chief denies it to those close to him, concerns about whether his cancer had returned -- fueled by his gaunt appearance as he stood onstage to unveil the iPhone 3G last month -- have weighed on the company's stock price. Mr. Jobs has told several associates, as well as some members of Apple's board of directors, that he is dealing with nutritional problems in the wake of his cancer surgery. PAGE C5
 GRAPPLING WITH INFLATION IN ASIA
 Countries in Asia are wrestling with inflation as food and gas prices continue to climb, and in India and Vietnam the rate has already reached double digits. Workers are demanding higher wages to cover their rising living costs, and companies are imposing higher prices for a wide range of goods to cover accelerating production costs. For their part, Asia's central bankers, who are preparing for their annual gathering in Shanghai, have been unable to develop a united response to deal with it. PAGE C1
 Arts
 GAMING'S NEW GOLDEN AGE,
 Without Joysticks or Quarters
 Seth Schiesel writes that while there were no big announcements at the E3, the annual game industry convention in Los Angeles, the sheer depth of quality in video game design suggests that only now are video games moving into their true golden age. (Apologies, Donkey Kong fans.) Some unheralded games, like Dead Space, wowed attendees. And there was plentyof marketing muscle: Rock Band, the rival to Guitar Hero, underwrote a blistering private performance by a little band called the Who. PAGE E3
 STILL PAYING OFF HIS DEBT
 After serving a 14-year sentence in a Manchester, England, prison for an undisclosed heinous crime, an unsure young man named Jack Burridge re-enters the world with plans of redemption. It doesn't quite go as planned in ''Boy A,'' a British film directed by John Crowley, which wonders if criminals ever finish paying their debts to society. A review by Stephen Holden. PAGE E1
 SADNESS BOOKENDED BY GRINS
 Karen O of the Yeah Yeah Yeahs took to the Union Pool on Monday night with her cumbersomely named side act Native Korean Rock & the Fishnets, sporting a wide smile that belied the sad lyrics she sung. ''Her smile was one that comes with leaving a burden behind,'' writes Jon Caramanica, ''relief at shaking off yesterday, hopeful about tomorrow.'' PAGE E1
 CNN TURNS LENS ON BLACK LIFE
 CNN plans to broadcast ''Black in America,'' a two-part documentary series on African-American life, beginning Thursday. While some celebrities will show up in the interviews, most of the reports use ordinary people to flesh out topics like the education gap, the state of the black middle class, the AIDS epidemic, single parenthood and black men behind bars. PAGE E1
 Demystifying Jean-Luc Godard E7
 OBITUARIES
 Estelle Getty, 84
 She was best known as the acid-tongued octogenarian Sophia Petrillo on the television sitcom ''The Golden Girls,'' but had long played mothers on the stage. ''I've played mothers to heroes and mothers to zeroes,'' she said in her autobiography. ''I've played Irish mothers, Jewish mothers, Italian mothers, Southern mothers, mothers in plays by Neil Simon and Arthur Miller and Tennessee Williams. I've played mother to everyone but Attila the Hun.'' PAGE A19
 Dining
 SLOW FOOD MOVEMENT POISED
 To Savor Its Big Moment
 The Slow Food Organization wants you to know it's not an exclusive wine tasting party with really hard-to-find cheese. At the end of the summer, it will host a 50,000-strong gathering in San Francisco. The movement, which began in 1986 in Italy, wants to prove that sustainable, tasty food can be a mechanism for social, economic and political change. Page F1 
 AT DINNER, A NEIGHBORHOOD GROWS
 While there might be a tendency to stay within a comfort zone, that zone does not always mean a specific destination. It might be the eight restaurants in your apartment's vicinity or it might mean a train ride from the Upper West Side to Wall Street, for that pizza place you love. A place that opened with the idea of feeding its artsy neighbors fulfills its goal, but with neighbors from a different part of New York entirely, Alex Witchel writes. Page F1 
 CHEFS' STANDBY IS REGULATED
 Even if ''sous vide'' sounds more to you like the latest foreign film at the local cinema than an aspect of cooking, chances are you've partaken. The technique, which means ''under vacuum,'' was developed in the 1960s as a method of ensuring uniformity of flavor and texture, and involves storing food in vacuum-sealed portions. But recent health concerns have led the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene to institute stringent new regulations for its use and close restaurants that do not conform. Page F3 
 Cheesecake for the Summer F3 
 Sports
 USA TRACK AND FIELD URGES
 President Not to Pardon Jones
 In an open letter, Douglas G. Logan, the newly appointed chief executive of USA Track and Field, asked President Bush not to pardon the sprinter Marion Jones or commute a jail sentence given her for lying to investigators about her use of performance-enhancing drugs and her role in a check-fraud case. ''To reduce Ms. Jones's sentence or pardon her would send a horrible message to young people who idolized her,'' he wrote. PAGE D1 
 SLIPPING THROUGH THEIR HANDS
 Despite Edgar Castillo's talents on the soccer field, the United States Soccer Federation lost its chance at him, not wooing him until he'd already become a star in Mexico. Castillo, who has dual citizenship in the United States and Mexico, now plays for the national squad, and American officials are looking at ways to identify and hold on to talented Hispanic players. PAGE D3 
 Editorial
 A TIME FOR URGENCY
 Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson insists that Congress quickly approve a plan to rescue Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Unfortunately, support for swift passage is missing from one important quarter: Mr. Paulson's boss, President Bush. Page A20
 FINALLY, NOWHERE TO HIDE
 Serbian secret police have arrested Radovan Karadzic, the Bosnian Serb leader who orchestrated the worst horrors of the Bosnian war. His capture should serve as a warning to others who incite genocide and believe that they can rely on their neighbors' complicity to escape justice. Page A20
 DEBATING FROM THE DOMESTIC FRONT
 Why is Senator Barack Obama still hedging on Google's invitation to a debate in New Orleans fed by text-message questioners and YouTube aficionados? It seems as if the locale and the forum should be irresistible to him. Page A20
 Op-Ed
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 John McCain was right about the surge. But Iraq has always been a story full of surprises. And one of the most important political surprises is how quickly the surge has made Iraq safe for Barack Obama's foreign policy. Page A21
 HARVEST THE SUN -- FROM SPACE
 In an Op-Ed article, O. Glenn Smith, a former NASA engineer, suggests an alternative to fossil fuels and inefficient renewable resources: collecting solar power through satellites and beaming the energy back to Earth. Page A21

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTION LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); BOYCOTTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); SMOKING (89%); APPROVALS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); PARALYSIS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); FUEL MARKETS (66%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (66%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (65%); CITIES (60%); CITY GOVERNMENT (60%); TOBACCO MFG (60%); SPONSORSHIP (50%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (50%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); HUGO CHAVEZ (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); CHINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CAMBODIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); THAILAND (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008



594 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Drop in Oil Prices Helps to Ease Anxiety

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks advanced for the second consecutive session Wednesday as another decline in oil prices and several upbeat profit reports eased Wall Street's concerns about the economy.
 The government reported Wednesday that domestic inventories increased last week as consumers curbed their energy use. A barrel of light crude oil fell $3.98, to settle at $124.44. Oil is down more than $20 a barrel since hitting a record above $147 a few weeks ago. 
 AT&T, McDonald's and Pfizer, all among the 30 stocks that make up the Dow Jones industrial average, weighed in with generally positive reports.
 ''Oil is a positive but I think bigger than that is the earnings news is not as catastrophic as people were thinking,'' said Noman Ali, portfolio manager of United States equities for MFC Global Investment Management in Toronto.
 The Dow rose 29.88 points, or 0.26 percent, to 11,632.38 after rising nearly 100 points early in the session. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed up 5.19 points, or 0.41 percent, to 1,282.19 and the Nasdaq composite index gained 21.92 points, or 0.95 percent, to 2,325.88.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 2.37 points, or 0.33 percent, to 719.19.
 The dollar was mostly higher against other major currencies, which also helped push oil lower. The drop in oil helped sectors like airlines. Delta Air Lines and Continental Airlines both rose 12 percent, Delta closing at $8.60 and Continental at $14.80.
 But energy companies lost ground. Exxon Mobil fell $1.87, to $80.99, and Chevron slid $2.98, to $82.65.
 Investors appeared unfazed by the Federal Reserve's beige book, which provides readings on the economy by region and indicated that business conditions had slowed in recent months.
 AT&T rose 3.9 percent, to $33.06, after the company said gains in wireless subscribers offset landline losses. 
 Pfizer's second-quarter earnings more than doubled as the weak dollar helped lift overseas revenue. The stock rose 3.9 percent, to $19.07.
 McDonald's credited strong overseas sales for a higher second-quarter profit, but its stock fell 46 cents, to $59.66, after it warned of price increases.
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac advanced ahead of a House vote to approve legislation that would give the Treasury Department authority to extend the companies a temporary lifeline. Fannie Mae rose $1.59, or 12 percent, to $15. Freddie Mac rose $1.10, or 11 percent, to $10.80.
 The action reassured investors, but Mr. Ali, the portfolio manager for MFC, said he remained cautious.
 ''Some of the biggest rallies happen in bear markets. The outlook for the market is still pretty negative,'' he said, pointing to a general decline in earnings, a slowdown in international growth, and a weak dollar.
 Bond prices slipped as some investors moved from the safety of government debt to stocks. The price of the 10-year Treasury note fell 4/32, to 98 2/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, rose to 4.12 percent, from 4.10 percent.
 Following are the results of Wednesday's Treasury auction of two-year notes: 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.
The Favorites: Stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); LEGISLATION (63%); APPROVALS (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (67%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (67%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (63%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); PFIZER INC (57%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (67%); DAL (NYSE) (67%); XOM (NYSE) (58%); PFZ (LSE) (57%); PFEB (BRU) (57%); PFE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (67%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (67%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (67%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (63%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008



595 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Glaxo, Pfizer and Wyeth Exceed Wall Street's Expectations

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Three drug makers, Pfizer, GlaxoSmithKline and Wyeth, all beat expectations for quarterly earnings on Wednesday.
 Although all three companies face major threats from generic competition, the latest results show that demand for medicines is holding up relatively well at a time of economic downturn. 
 Pfizer's quarterly earnings more than doubled on higher sales of its prescription medicines and lower costs. The company earned $2.78 billion, or 41 cents a share, in the second quarter, compared with 18 cents a year earlier.
 Excluding special items, Pfizer earned 55 cents a share. Analysts on average expected 54 cents a share, according to Reuters Estimates.
 Glaxo, based in Britain, posted a pretax profit of $:2.02 billion ($4.04 billion), or 27.2 pence a share, a 13 percent increase. The average per share forecast was 25 pence.
 Wyeth's second-quarter profit fell 7 percent, to $1.12 billion, or 83 cents a share, from 87 cents a year earlier, because of generic competition faced by its Protonix ulcer drug. 
 That was still better than investors had expected, and Wyeth shares rose nearly 2 percent, to $45.55. 
 Pfizer stock rose nearly 4 percent to close at $19.07, though some of the shine was taken off by news that the company's Chantix quit-smoking drug had lost more than a third of its sales in the United States because of safety concerns.
 Glaxo's American depositary receipts gained 11 cents to close at $48.66 after the company said it would delay the completion of a share buyback program.
 Pharmaceutical stocks have had a rough ride in recent years, reflecting growing anxiety about multiple patent expirations on blockbuster drugs over the next five years, at a time when few new drugs are emerging from company laboratories.
 Shares of Pfizer, which faces loss of exclusivity on its top-selling drug, Lipitor, for high cholesterol, have lost more than a quarter of their value in the last year. 
 Against that backdrop, leading drug makers are rethinking their strategy. 
 Some are trying to bolster their pipelines by striking ever bigger deals with biotechnology companies. Roche Holding, for example, offered this week to buy out the remainder of Genentech for $43.7 billion.
 Others are aiming to improve their operations in other ways.
 Glaxo's chief executive, Andrew Witty, who took over in May, used Wednesday's results presentation to outline a new strategy. 
 Mr. Witty said the company would become much more diversified with lower costs and a more pragmatic approach to research and investment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); GASTROINTESTINAL AGENTS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (71%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (65%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (65%); SMOKING CESSATION (65%); PATENTS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%); CHOLESTEROL (50%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (98%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (92%); ROCHE HOLDING AG (58%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (98%); PFEB (BRU) (98%); PFE (NYSE) (98%); GSK (NYSE) (92%); GSK (LSE) (92%); BIOC (EGX) (92%); ROG (SWX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (98%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (98%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (98%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008



596 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE ENERGY CHALLENGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: Gassing Up With Garbage

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
After years of false starts, a new industry selling motor fuel made from waste is getting a big push in the United States, with the first commercial sales possible within months.
Many companies have announced plans to build plants that would take in material like wood chips, garbage or crop waste and turn out motor fuels. About 28 small plants are in advanced planning, under construction or, in a handful of cases, already up and running in test mode.
For decades scientists have known it was possible to convert waste to fuel, but in an era of cheap oil, it made little sense. With oil now trading around $125 a barrel and gasoline above $4 a gallon, the potential economics of a waste-to-fuel industry have shifted radically, setting off a frenzy to be first to market.
''I think American innovation is going to come up with the solution,'' said Prabhakar Nair, research chief for UOP, a company working on the problem. 
Success is far from assured, however. Some of the latest announcements come from small companies whose dreams may be bigger than their bank accounts. They are counting on billions in taxpayer subsidies. Big technological hurdles remain, and even if they can be solved, no one is sure what unintended consequences will emerge or what it will really cost to produce this type of fuel.
''We desperately need it, and I personally think it's not there yet,'' said Steven Chu, director of the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and a Nobel Prize-winning physicist. ''You have to look at starts with a grain of salt, especially starts where they say, 'It's around the corner, and by the way, can you pay half the bill?' ''
Still, the incentive to make fuel from something, anything, besides oil and food is greater than ever. Moreover, the federal government is offering grants to help plants get off the ground and subsidies for one type of fuel of $1.01 a gallon, twice the subsidy it historically offered to ethanol made from corn.
Potential controls on global warming gases would heighten the appeal of these fuels, since many of them would add little new carbon dioxide to the atmosphere.
Tellingly, the type of companies placing bets on the field has started to expand. The earliest were small start-ups founded by people with more technological vision than business experience. Now some of the giants of global business, including Honeywell, Dupont, General Motors, Shell and BP, are taking stakes in the nascent industry.
The dream of making fuel from plants is almost as old as the internal combustion engine. Henry Ford himself was fascinated by the idea, and it re-emerges in periods of fuel scarcity and high prices. These days, advancing technology has made the notion more plausible.
Virtually any material containing hydrogen, carbon and oxygen could potentially be turned into motor fuel. That includes plastics, construction debris, forest and lawn trimmings, wood chips, wheat straw and many other types of agricultural waste.
The potential fuels include ethanol, which can be blended with gasoline, or other liquids that could displace gasoline or diesel entirely. Government studies suggest the country could potentially replace half its gasoline supply in this way -- even more if cars became more efficient.
The government is pushing to get the industry off the ground. Legislation passed last year mandates the use of 36 billion gallons of biofuels a year by 2022, less than half of it from corn ethanol. Almost all the rest is supposed to come from nonfood sources, though the requirement could be waived if the industry faltered.
''One has to say upfront that what Congress has done is remarkable in its bravery,'' said David Morris, vice president of the Institute for Local Self Reliance, a group in Minneapolis that advocates biofuels.
Much of the new money flowing into the field is coming from Silicon Valley, where the venture capitalists who gave the world the Internet revolution see an opportunity to do something similar with the fuel supply.
At Solazyme, a start-up in South San Francisco that hopes to commercialize a process for making fuel from algae, President Harrison F. Dillon said, ''When we founded the company in 2003, we couldn't find a venture capital firm that had heard of the concept of a biofuel.'' Now he is backed by two such firms.
Venture capital investment in the first half of this year hit $612 million, up from $375 million in all of 2007, according to a survey by Thomson Reuters. Every few days brings another announcement. PFC Energy, a Washington consulting firm, counts projects worth perhaps $1.5 billion that will total more than 300 million gallons of capacity by 2011, if they all get built.
That is small in the scheme of American fuel demand, but it would presumably set the stage for substantial growth if those first projects prove that the economics can work.
One of the first companies to bring a plant online is KL Process Design Group, in Wyoming. With experience making corn ethanol plants, it has built a small plant meant to use pine wastes from a nearby national forest. The company is still testing its production line but hopes to begin commercial sales of ethanol late this year.
''We're still learning and tweaking, and hoping for a little bit of capital infusion,'' said Tom Slunecka, a vice president of the company.
Range Fuels, of Denver, is building a commercial-scale plant in Soperton, Ga., with help from the Energy Department. That plant will take pine chips and turn them into ethanol, with commercial sales expected by late 2009 or 2010.
Some companies want to use garbage. On Friday, a company called Fulcrum BioEnergy said it would start construction later this year on a $120 million plant at the Tahoe-Reno Industrial Center, in Storey County, Nev., to make 10.5 million gallons of ethanol a year from 90,000 tons of garbage. Operation would begin in early 2010.
In Montreal, another firm, Enerkem, plans to use arsenic-contaminated utility poles from the provincial electric company. On Wednesday, the Los Angeles County Regional Planning Commission approved a plan by BlueFire Ethanol to build a $30 million garbage-to-ethanol plant on 10 acres next to a landfill in Lancaster, Calif.; construction will start soon, the company said.
A handful of small companies has long made a diesel replacement from waste oil, or sold kits to individuals to do the same. One company in Carthage, Mo., even turns turkey guts into fuel. The goal of the emerging waste-to-fuel industry is more elaborate, however: to take bulky, solid feedstocks and transform them into high-grade motor fuel.
History provides plenty of warning that it will not be easy. A company called Verenium in Lafayette, La., has cut ribbons three times in one locale since 1998 on plants that would supposedly make fuel from sugar cane waste, and has yet to sell a drop because of problems converting laboratory success into smooth, commercial-scale operation.
A bigger operation, Iogen, has been running a demonstration plant in Ottawa since 2004 that can turn wheat straw into ethanol. It was expected to build a plant in Idaho but has suspended work to focus attention on a plant in Saskatchewan. ''It would be our view that there are substantial challenges in scaling up a big new biochemical process,'' said Brian Foody, the president.
The Energy Department early last year picked six projects as most likely to succeed, and offered each of them tens of millions of dollars. Iogen's Idaho project was among them; so was a plant in Kansas proposed by a Florida company, Alico, that has also been abandoned. Still, increasing interest from big companies -- ones with a track record of solving technical problems -- suggests that a waste-to-fuel industry may not remain out of reach forever.
General Motors has invested an undisclosed sum in two companies, Coskata, of Warrenville, Ill., and Mascoma, of Lebanon, N.H., that aim to turn crop wastes into ethanol.
DuPont, one of the world's largest chemical companies, has joined forces with a company called Genencor, announcing plans to commercialize a process for making ethanol from the nonedible parts of corn and sugar cane. They plan to invest $140 million over three years.
In making their announcement, the companies estimated the worldwide market for fuels made by methods like theirs would eventually reach $75 billion, dwarfing the scale of today's biofuels produced from food crops like corn and sugar cane.
Correction: July 29, 2008, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about the budding industry to turn waste products into motor fuels misspelled the name of a New Hampshire company that aims to turn crop waste into ethanol. It is Mascoma, not Macoma.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pine waste, above right, from a national forest near KL Process Design Group in Wyoming is used to make ethanol, a substitute for gasoline. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DICK KETTLEWELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C1)
 KL Process Design is using pine waste to make ethanol. The lab manager, Audra Locke, right, with a sample. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DICK KETTLEWELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); BIOFUELS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); CHEMICALS (77%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (77%); CLIMATOLOGY (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); NOBEL PRIZES (74%); ALCOHOLS (73%); ETHANOL (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (64%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%); HAZARDOUS WASTE FUELS (58%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: STEVEN CHU (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2010



597 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: Whirlpool's Profit Falls, but Beats Expectations

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. 

 BODY:
The Whirlpool Corporation, the household appliance maker, said Wednesday that its second-quarter profit fell 27 percent because of higher costs related to materials and oil, and lower demand in the United States. 
 ''This is a very serious, severe economic environment,'' the chairman and chief executive, Jeff M. Fettig, said. ''We're aggressively trying to manage every part of our business.''
 The company expects industrywide demand to be down 6 percent to 7 percent for the year in the United States and 2 percent to 3 percent in Europe.
 Whirlpool said profit in the quarter was $117 million, or $1.53 a share, compared with $161 million, or $2 a share, in the period a year ago. Revenue in the quarter was up 5 percent to $5.1 billion, from $4.9 billion.
 Whirlpool's performance beat Wall Street's expectations, with Thomson Financial saying that analysts it surveyed expected earnings of $1.37 a share on sales of $5.03 billion.
 Shares rose $8.54, to $76.69.
 Whirlpool North America had second-quarter sales of $2.9 billion, down 4 percent from last year. United States industry unit shipments of major appliances fell about 8 percent.
 The division includes the United States, Canada, Mexico, Central America, the Caribbean and countries in northern South America, excluding Brazil.
 Higher costs were partly offset by productivity initiatives and improved results in Whirlpool Latin America, made up of the company's operations in Brazil and the southern part of South America. Sales during the quarter increased 22 percent to $1 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SHIPMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%)

COMPANY: WHIRLPOOL CORP (98%); WHIRLPOOL OF INDIA LTD (92%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%)

TICKER: WHR (NYSE) (98%); WHIRLPOOL (NSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (98%)

PERSON: JEFF M FETTIG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (59%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (77%); LATIN AMERICA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008



598 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: It's Botox for You, Dear Bridesmaids

BYLINE: By ABBY ELLIN

 BODY:
AFTER the band was chosen and the napkins color-coordinated to match her shoes, Kacey Knauer, a bride-to-be, had another critical matter to address: her skin, and the skin of the nine women in her bridal party. 
 So Ms. Knauer, the 35-year-old owner of TempTrends, a staffing agency in Manhattan, invited her nearest and dearest -- including her mother and future mother-in-law -- for a night out at the TriBeCa MedSpa, replete with mimosas and cupcakes. An aesthetician assessed each woman's face and devised a treatment plan -- a quick chemical peel, say, or an injection of a wrinkle-filler. Or maybe, for a bridesmaid with age spots, a series of Fraxel laser treatments over months, allowing for recovery time.
 For Ms. Knauer, who will be married in December, cosmetic interventions for herself and her entourage are as vital as the centerpieces or food. ''If I were 25 or 26 and getting married, a bracelet, necklace or matching earrings would be fine,'' she said. 
 But at 35? ''Giving them a bracelet isn't as special as spending an evening together. Plus, as you get older, everyone is more conscientious about their skin and appearance,'' she said. ''Giving them something for themselves -- as opposed to something that they'll never wear again -- is more meaningful.'' 
 And let's not forget the pictures of college roommates-turned-bridesmaids quickly posted to Facebook. It is no longer sufficient to hire a hairstylist and makeup artist to be on hand the day of. Instead, bridal parties are indulging in dermal fillers and tooth-whitening months before the Big Day. 
 Some brides pick up the tab for their attendants, replacing the pillbox inscribed with the wedding date with a well-earned squirt between the eyes. In other cases, bridesmaids -- who may quietly seethe about unflattering dresses -- are surprisingly willing to pay for cosmetic enhancements. ''Most women, when they come in here, they want it,'' said Camille Meyer, the owner of TriBeCa MedSpa. ''They know they're aging.''
 For Karen Hohenstein, who held her party at the Tiffani Kim Institute Medical Wellness Spa in Chicago, convincing her friends was as smooth as a Botoxed forehead. ''It wasn't me saying, 'Hey, we all could use a little something,' '' she said. ''It was, 'I want to do this,' and a couple of people said, 'I do, too.' ''
 But for every accommodating pal, there's another who feels going under the knife is beyond the duty of bridesmaid. Becky Lee, 39, a Manhattan photographer, declined when a friend asked her -- and five other attendants -- to have their breasts enhanced. ''We're all Asian and didn't have a whole lot of cleavage, and she found a doctor in L.A. who was willing to do four for the price of two,'' said Ms. Lee, who wore a push-up bra instead.
 Not for nothing are some maids known as slaves of honor, but this kind of cajoling is a recent development on the wedding front.
 Marie Scalogna-Watkinson, the founder of Spa Chicks on-the-Go, a mobile spa, said she receives five to seven calls a month from brides seeking Botox or Restylane for their bridesmaids. Five years ago, collective makeovers were unheard of, she said. 
 Dr. Fardad Forouzanpour, a cosmetic surgeon in Beverly Hills, Calif., said his business has increased more than 40 percent since he began offering what he calls Bridal Beauty Buffets in 2006. 
 In the last two years, bridal party tuneups have increased roughly 25 percent, estimated Susie Ellis, the president of SpaFinder.com, a site that lists 4,500 spas worldwide.
 Just as timing matters when it comes to securing a hall, it's best that brides-to-be don't delay scheduling appointments, aestheticians and doctors say. ''You wouldn't get a cut and color the week before,'' said Dr. Jessica Wu, a dermatologist in Beverly Hills who advises coming in three to six months before the big day. ''We do a trial run of Botox about four months ahead of time. Then, two weeks before the wedding, we do that last treatment.'' 
 Ms. Meyer of TriBeCa MedSpa suggests that a bride contact her the minute the question is popped. ''Brides really appreciate the fact that we put everything in a regimented schedule for them,'' she said. Since February 2007, she has staged more than 30 bridesmaid parties and has 18 planned so far this year. ''If you have to do eight treatments, six weeks apart, that could take up to a year,'' she said. 
 Fraxel laser could also set you back $1,200 a session, which even without the economic downturn, amounts to quite a bit. These days, Robyn Bomar, an event planner in Destin, Fla., overhears brides doing cost-benefit analyses. ''They will never choose Botox over a great dress, but they will say 'Maybe I'll have a buffet over a sit-down at the rehearsal dinner,' '' she said. Or: ''I'll spend the money on Botox rather than lunch.' ''
 In June, Jennifer Peterson, 31, a production director in Los Angeles, and eight friends indulged in Botox, Restylane, massages, facials and microdermabrasion at Infinity MedSpa in Valencia, Calif. Her friends chipped in for her treatments, but she is considering giving them each a $100 certificate to the spa -- a gift she is sure they will appreciate. ''Everybody does Botox out here,'' she said. 
 The beauty procedure thank-you gift is becoming more common, said Ms. Bomar, who coordinates about three parties a month. Time was when the bride arranged for everyone to get manicures at the same time, followed by lunch. But today? ''It's much more likely that she is footing the bill for eyelash extensions, airbrush tanning and a bevy of other cosmetic procedures,'' she said.
 Five years ago, plastic surgeons, dermatologists and tooth-whitening centers ''were virtually absent'' from bridal expos, said William F. Heaton III, the president of the Great Bridal Expo Group, which produces events in 40 cities nationwide. ''Now we're getting a half dozen phone calls a week.'' 
 This year alone, American Laser Centers, a chain, has participated in 830 bridal shows, said Amanda McInnes, a marketing director. 
 Two weeks ago, Health Travel Guides, a medical tourism company, exhibited at the Dallas Bridal Show for the first time. ''We received 30 requests for quotes among the bridal show attendees -- mostly for plastic surgery such as liposuction and breast augmentation,'' said Sandra Miller, the company's chief marketing officer. ''But also many for cosmetic dentistry and inquiries for providing quotes for bachelorette getaways that will feature beauty treatments.''
 A bride's request that you whiten your grayish teeth can strain a relationship. Samantha Goldberg, a wedding planner in Chester, N.J., recalled a bride who asked her attendants to get professionally spray-tanned for a Hawaiian-theme reception. 
 Alas, two women were claustrophobic and couldn't bear standing in a tanning capsule. ''They asked the bride if they could use regular tanning cream from a salon,'' Ms. Goldberg said. The bride refused; she wanted everyone to be the same shade. The women ultimately declined to be bridesmaids. ''Friendships of 20-plus years gone over a spray tan?'' Ms. Goldberg said. ''Sad!'' 
 And how does a bride break it to a mother-in-law that she'd love her crow's feet to be frozen into submission? Very delicately.
 ''My mother is in her 60s. She's been talking about it for so long, so I said 'Let's do it,' '' said Stacey Berlin, 29, a marketing consultant, who is having a party at Aquamedica Day Spa in Long Branch, N.J.
 It was trickier with her future mother-in-law. ''To her,'' Ms. Berlin said, ''I said it as a joke: 'You should do Botox for the wedding!' She giggled, and then I said, 'I'm serious. It's exactly what you need to freshen up.' At first she kind of laughed it off, but the more we talked about it and I told her my mom was going to do it, she said 'O.K.' '' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SOMETHING NEW: Karen Hohenstein, standing above and at left, jokes with her attendants-to-be at a Botox party at the Tiffani Kim Institute Medical Wellness Spa in Chicago. Below: Camellia Zheng, right, performed skin evaluations for Kacey Knauer, center, and her bridesmaids at TriBeCa MedSpa in New York.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ABOVE AND BELOW LEFT, NATHAN MILLIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BELOW, DONNA ALBERICO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. G3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); NONSURGICAL COSMETIC PROCEDURES (90%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (89%); MARRIAGE (78%); MEDICAL LASERS (70%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (69%); PHOTOGRAPHY (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%); VISUAL ARTISTS (63%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (56%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008



599 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 245 words

HEADLINE: Costco Lowers Outlook, Citing Energy Costs

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: ISSAQUAH, Wash. 

 BODY:
The Costco Wholesale Corporation, the warehouse club, said Wednesday that its fourth-quarter and full-year profit would miss Wall Street expectations, citing higher energy costs. 
 The company also said it would expand its stock repurchase plan by $1 billion.
 For the fourth quarter, analysts polled by Thomson Financial expect $1 a share in profit, and Costco said it expected earnings ''well below'' this estimate. Analysts expect full-year earnings of $2.99 a share, according to Thomson.
 ''Factors negatively affecting our fourth quarter earnings outlook arise largely from inflation, particularly as to energy costs,'' the chief financial officer, Richard Galanti, said in a statement.
 The outlook reflects weakness in the company's gasoline operations and slightly lower-than-planned merchandise profits as the company holds back on price increases to drive sales.
 Mr. Galanti also said a greater-than-anticipated LIFO charge, which refers to the last-in-first-out method that assumes the most recent inventory purchases or goods manufactured are sold first. During times of rising prices, that results in a charge that eliminates inflationary profits from net income.
 The company also said its board expanded its buyback plan by up to $1 billion, which is in addition to the $5.8 billion already authorized, and it declared a quarterly cash dividend of 16 cents, payable on Aug. 22 to shareholders of record on Aug. 8.
 The company will report results on Oct. 8.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); SALES & SELLING (68%); EXECUTIVES (55%)

COMPANY: COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (95%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (84%)

TICKER: COST (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008



600 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; GOING DOWN THE ROAD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: A State That Never Was Keeps Its Place in the Maverick Heart

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: SHERIDAN, Wyo. 

 BODY:
In early 1939, as talk of war in Europe clouded the horizon and hard economic times gripped the nation, a group of business and political leaders in this northern Wyoming city hatched an audacious, if not quite ridiculous, plan to break off huge chunks of Wyoming, South Dakota and Montana and form a new state. 
 Editors at the Depression-era Federal Writers' Project, which happened at the time to be combing the country for local color (and for writers as well, for a series of travel guides about the United States that are now coming online and enjoying a public revival of sorts), included the story in the Wyoming guide, published in 1941, as an example of ten-gallon cowboy eccentricity. 
 The tale of the would-be rebels, who called their new state Absaroka (pronounced ab-SOR-ka), from the Crow word meaning ''children of the large-beaked bird,'' then faded into the mist. Details were forgotten -- how a baseball-player-turned-street-commissioner in Sheridan named A. R. Swickard appointed himself governor and began hearing writs of grievance, and how license plates were distributed along with pictures of Miss Absaroka 1939, the first and apparently last of her breed. There was even an Absarokan state visit, when the king of Norway made a swing through Montana. 
 But here is the great open secret of this part of the West: the frontier spirit of the state that never was lives on.
 Hold up the map today that ''Governor'' Swickard and his compatriots sketched out (partly at the Sheridan Rotary Club, a hotbed for rebel recruitment) and the distinctions that made this part of the country feel worthy of statehood in the 1930s -- different in its geography, history, economic base and political outlook -- are mostly still there. 
 The undulating landscape of tall grasses that shaped the horsemen and women of the Sioux, Cheyenne and Crow, and the ranchers who came later, is still there, in all its lush exuberance. Economic life shifted gears -- coal-bed methane and hobby ranching encroached, sugar beets and flour-milling fell away -- but the high grass persists, and that defines the land and the culture -- then and now. 
 ''The grass culture -- people who make a living from growing grass, or from the animals that eat the grass -- that was Absaroka,'' said Ken Kerns, a 76-year-old rancher who has lived most of his life on the Double Rafter Ranch, which his family staked out in the 1880s about 45 minutes from Sheridan, Absaroka's fleeting capital.
 Ranch families like the Kernses -- conservative, self-sufficient and wanting mostly to be left alone -- were demographic anchors of the Absarokan movement. And the never-ending battle to sustain ranching as a way of life in turn created the character of Swickard-like curve-ball creativity, Mr. Kerns said -- that if one thing does not work, you try another. 
 At the Double Rafter, keeping the ranch alive meant adapting to the reality that cattle alone no longer paid the bills. So about 15 years ago, the Kernses began bringing in paying guests to help with their six-to-seven-day cattle drives -- taking 600 head or so up into the Big Horn Mountains in July and bringing them down in September. It is an unbroken rhythm for six generations now augmented by drover wannabes paying upward of $2,000 to spend eight hours a day in the saddle, sleep on the ground and get roused for biscuits and gravy at 4 a.m.
 Agriculture and its discontents set off the first sparks in the Absaroka movement, starting in South Dakota around 1935 where farmers and ranchers chafed that the New Deal of President Franklin D. Roosevelt was leaving them out.
 ''They're weren't fooling around; a lot of people thought it was silliness, but to them, it wasn't,'' said former Senator Alan K. Simpson, 77, a Republican who represented Wyoming from 1979 to 1997, and whose uncle James C. Reynolds, a hardware store owner in Sheridan, was involved in the movement.
 Mr. Simpson said Absarokians mostly wanted self-determination. Democrats controlled Wyoming then and were concentrated in the state's southern half, where the Union Pacific Railroad, and the railroad unions, held the reins of state government.
 Those political fault lines are still there today, even if the proposed new state boundaries are not.
 Would-have-been Absarokians in South Dakota west of the Missouri River still vote more solidly Republican than South Dakotans east of the river, where the populist-farmer imprint of the upper Midwest holds sway. Many voters in eastern Montana and northern Wyoming defend the same conservative line in their states. 
 Absaroka was also settled by whites later than other parts of the West because of the Northern Plains Indian wars, which raged through the 1870s. That made history feel dishpan-deep in the 1930s, the frontier spirit of experimentation still fresh. And the idea of Absaroka was just fun, old-timers say, in a deeply gloomy time.
 ''It was 90 miles of dirt road to the county seat,'' said Helen Graham, who was a teenager in 1930s South Dakota, a daughter of struggling homesteaders.
 ''There was just nothing there,'' said Ms. Graham, 89, a retired librarian in Sheridan. ''What Swickard did was exciting.''
 Freewheeling improvisation was a theme at the Writers' Project, too. 
 With few professional authors in 1930s, leaders of the Wyoming project looked for people who could make up for a lack of experience with moxie -- or desperation.
 One homesteader named Nelly Vandeveer interviewed pioneers and delivered her manuscripts for the guide on horseback, according to a history written in the 1970s by Jerre Mangione, a former project executive.
 Another contributor, ''who was inclined to drink heavily and raise hell,'' as Mr. Mangione put it, wrote dispatches from jail. 
 The idea that the government would pay writers at all was not exactly popular in parts of Wyoming -- Absaroka, perhaps especially -- which pushed the state's project director into her own act of absurdist audacity, passing herself off as a reporter for a publication called The Wyoming Stockman Farmer. ''Once she hit on the ruse,'' Mr. Mangione wrote, ''she had no further difficulty.'' 
 At the Double Rafter, the Absarokan spirit of can-do and get-through was on display in the camp kitchen at 3:30 a.m. on a recent cattle-driving day. 
 Jill Havert stirred 40 eggs for the guests and crew in a cast-iron pot as the gas burners hissed under the canvas and the creek rippled outside. Ms. Havert, a 21-year-old nursing student at the University of Wyoming in Laramie, is being ''initiated,'' as she put it, into the Kerns family. Her boyfriend, Tyler Kerns, 20, is one of Ken Kerns's grandchildren and a junior in architectural engineering at the university. He has been making cattle drives since childhood; she was on her first, and dark-before-dawn breakfast duty was part of the drill.
 ''This is a sink-or-swim family,'' Ms. Havert said. ''But I'm holding my own.''
 The lingering debate about Absaroka among historians -- whether it was a Western tall tale or genuine secessionist effort -- carries on in its own way at the Double Rafter, where the Kerns family emphasizes that its cattle drives are real, with no staged events or actors. ''City Slickers,'' it is not, said Dana Kerns, Ken Kerns's oldest son, referring to the 1991 Billy Crystal movie. 
 ''We'd be doing the drive anyway; this just allows us to keep the ranch,'' said Mr. Kerns, 52. ''It's not fake.''
 Still, Mr. Kerns allowed as how some guest cowboys just sidle along with the cows after awhile, gazing out at the landscape that is largely unchanged, though the tale of Absaroka has blown away like dust in the high plains wind. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The high-plains spirit of the 1930s thrives today in the northern Wyoming town of Sheridan. In the Mint Bar, revelers celebrated after the town's annual rodeo and parade.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
A STATE OF MIND, IF NOT A STATE: Top, photo of Wyoming women holding license plates designed for Absaroka. Tyler Hicks, a New York Times photographer, traveled with the reporter Kirk Johnson to northern Wyoming and southern Montana searching for remnants of Absaroka culture, the fantasy of rebels looking to secede from Wyoming in the 1930's. They found a high-plains spirit that has persisted through the years. Right, revelry in Sheridan, Wyo., after the annual rodeo and parade. An interactive feature with photographs, maps and audio at nytimes.com/national(PHOTOGRAPH BY SHERIDAN LIBRARY)
ON THE RANGE: At the Double Rafter Ranch in Wyoming, paying guests join workers for cattle drives.
 THE PARADE PASSES: BY Residents of Sheridan, Wyo., gather for a parade that celebrates the annual rodeo.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A22) MAP: The boundaries of the proposed state of Absaroka, circa 1939. Map details the area of the Midwestern United States which would have been the state of Absaroka. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (86%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); FAMILY (78%); WRITERS (76%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (76%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); BASEBALL (67%); METHANE (50%); FLOUR MILLING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHERIDAN, WY, USA (97%); CHEYENNE, WY, USA (79%) WYOMING, USA (99%); MONTANA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); NORWAY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008

 
