

1 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 28; Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: October 1, 2000

 BODY:

	 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 	 	 1	3	SAVING FAITH, by David Baldacci. (Warner Vision, $7.99.) A man and a woman are caught in machinations of the F.B.I. involving corrupt forces in Washington.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	2	MONSTER, by Jonathan Kellerman. (Ballantine, $7.99.) Alex Delaware undertakes to discover how an inmate of a mental hospital can correctly predict brutal murders on the streets of Los Angeles.		 	 	 	 	 	 3	3	A WALK TO REMEMBER, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $6.99.) In 1958, a high school senior in North Carolina finds love with the daughter of a Baptist minister.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	28	THE POISONWOOD BIBLE, by Barbara Kingsolver. (Perennial/HarperCollins, $14.) Five female characters narrate a novel set in the Belgian Congo during that country's fight for independence.		 	 	 	 	 	 5	3	 *NIGHT TALES, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $14.95.) Four novels of romantic suspense that revolve around police officers and a prosecutor.		 	 	 	 	 	 6	3	HIGH TIDE, by Jude Deveraux. (Pocket Books, $7.99.) A New York businesswoman, on a trip to the Everglades, becomes a suspect in a murder case.		 	 	 	 	 	 7	7	BLACK NOTICE, by Patricia Cornwell. (Berkley, $7.99.) Dr. Kay Scarpetta's investigation of a ship's cargo leads her into an international conspiracy.		 	 	 	 	 	 8	3	NIGHT SHIELD, by Nora Roberts. (Intimate Moments/Silhouette, $4.50.) A cop tries to stop herself from falling for a good-looking shady character.		 	 	 	 	 	 9	1	JUDGMENT IN DEATH, by J. D. Robb. (Berkley, $7.50.) Lt. Eve Dallas's investigation of the bludgeoning death of a cop in a strip joint uncovers a private club called Purgatory.		 	 	 	 	 	 10	7	THE ALIBI, by Sandra Brown. (Warner, $7.99.) Jealousy, intrigue and corruption beset a Charleston lawyer during his pursuit of public office.		 	 	 	 	 	 11	5	LEFT BEHIND, by Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. Jenkins. (Tyndale, $13.99 and $7.99.) Life as lived by those who survive a global cataclysm. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 12	7	HEARTS IN ATLANTIS, by Stephen King. (Pocket Books, $7.99.) Five long, interconnected stories about an America haunted by the Vietnam War.		 	 	 	 	 	 13	3	PLAINSONG, by Kent Haruf. (Vintage Contemporaries, $13.) A half-dozen members of a high-plains Colorado community learn to contend with the variety of problems that face them.		 	 	 	 	 	 14	2	AFTER DARK, by Jayne Ann Krentz writing as Jayne Castle. (Jove, $6.99.) A woman discovers a dead body in a low-rent museum of ancient horrors.		 	 	 	 	 	 15	3	 *STEALING SHADOWS, by Kay Hooper. (Bantam, $6.50.) A psychic convinces herself -- but no one else -- that a murderer is stalking a North Carolina town.		 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 	 	 1	3	'TIS, by Frank McCourt. (Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $14.) An Irish immigrant gets used to life in America: the second volume of a memoir.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	3	. . . AND NEVER LET HER GO, by Ann Rule. (Pocket Star, $7.99.) The murder of a secretary to the governor of Delaware by an esteemed attorney.		 	 	 	 	 	 3	98	THE SEAT OF THE SOUL, by Gary Zukav. (Fireside/Simon & Schuster, $12.) How daily activities can be enhanced by feelings of meaning and purpose. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 4	1	SURVIVOR, by Mark Burnett with Martin Dugard. (TV Books, $17.95.) The companion volume to the television show.		 	 	 	 	 	 5	124	A CHILD CALLED "IT," by Dave Pelzer. (Health Communications, $9.95.) The autobiography of a man who survived abuse at the hands of an unstable, alcoholic mother. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 6	2	A MAN NAMED DAVE, by Dave Pelzer. (Plume, $11.) The concluding volume of a memoir that began with "A Child Called 'It' "and "The Lost Boy." (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 7	120	THE PERFECT STORM, by Sebastian Junger. (Perennial/HarperCollins, $14; HarperPaperbacks, $6.99.) The story of the northeaster of 1991, focusing on a crew of fishermen from Gloucester, Mass.		 	 	 	 	 	 8	6	THE TERRIBLE HOURS, by Peter Maas. (HarperTorch, $6.99.) The role a United States Navy officer played in rescuing the crew of a submarine in 1939.		 	 	 	 	 	 9	75	THE LOST BOY, by Dave Pelzer. (Health Communications, $10.95.) The author of "A Child Called 'It' "recalls his life at a series of foster homes. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 10	2	ONE LAST TIME, by John Edward. (Berkley, $12.95.) A self-described psychic medium discusses his life and work.		 	 	 	 	 	 11	17	THE LEXUS AND THE OLIVE TREE, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Anchor, $15.) A journalist explains the instant electronic global economy. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 12	74	 *GUNS, GERMS, AND STEEL, by Jared Diamond. (Norton, $14.95.) A physiologist attributes Western dominance to geographical advantages. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 13	63	A WALK IN THE WOODS, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $13.) A journalist finds beauty and humor while hiking the Appalachian Trail.		 	 	 	 	 	 14	9	ISAAC'S STORM, by Erik Larson. (Vintage, $13.) An account of America's deadliest hurricane, in Galveston, Tex., in 1900, and the Weather Bureau scientist who failed to forecast it.		 	 	 	 	 	 15	15	 *THE HUNGRY OCEAN, by Linda Greenlaw. (Hyperion, $14.) A sea captain's account of her 30-day swordfishing voyage off the Northeast coast.		 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Hardcover		 	 	 	 	 	 1	45	WHO MOVED MY CHEESE? by Spencer Johnson. (Putnam, $19.95.) How to deal with changes at work and in life in general. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 2	54	BODY FOR LIFE, by Bill Phillips with Michael D'Orso. (HarperCollins, $26.) Ways to improve one's body and one's life. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 3	4	GUINNESS world RECORDS 2001. (Guinness, $26.95.) A profusely illustrated collection of records about subjects as various as sports and technology.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	11	EATING WELL FOR OPTIMUM HEALTH, by Andrew Weil. (Knopf, $25.) A physician's guide to food, diet and nutrition. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 5	1	THE LIFE YOU IMAGINE, by Derek Jeter with Jack Curry. (Crown, $21.95.) The Yankee shortstop offers his game plan for success.		 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Paperback		 	 	 	 	 	 1	21	RICH DAD, POOR DAD, by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter. (Warner, $15.95.) Teaching one's children how to get rich and stay rich.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	2	TALKING DIRTY WITH THE QUEEN OF CLEAN, by Linda Cobb. (Pocket Books, $8.99.) A housekeeping guide.		 	 	 	 	 	 3	207	DR. ATKINS' NEW DIET REVOLUTION, by Robert C. Atkins. (Avon, $14 and $6.99.) Ways to lose weight and achieve a healthy body. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 4J11	THE FOUR AGREEMENTS, by Don Miguel Ruiz. (Amber-Allen, $12.95.) A code of conduct based on personal freedom. (+)	 		 	 	 	 	 	 5	7	THE OTHER SIDE AND BACK, by Sylvia Browne with Lindsay Harrison. (Signet, $7.50.) A psychic's guide to coping with the world and the future. (+)	
 
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending Sept. 16, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+)indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/books. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); BELGIUM (56%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (58%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (58%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); BELGIUM (56%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); MURDER (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); BESTSELLERS (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); CONSPIRACY (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (72%); RELIGION (72%); ALIBI (70%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (55%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (52%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



2 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 32; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 7560 words

HEADLINE: One Bad Cop

BYLINE: By Lou Cannon; Lou Cannon is the author of "President Reagan: The Role of a Lifetime" and "Official Negligence," an account of the Rodney King trial and the 1992 riots.

 BODY:
The case that would eventually spark the most damaging scandal in the history of the Los Angeles Police Department began early on the afternoon of Nov. 26, 1996, when Javier Francisco Ovando was wheeled on a gurney into a downtown courtroom of the Los Angeles County Hall of Justice for a pretrial hearing. "He was emaciated, frail, such a little man," recalled Tamar Toister, the public defender who was assigned his case, one of seven she would have that day. Ovando was charged with assaulting Rafael Perez and Nino Durden, two Los Angeles police officers, with a semiautomatic weapon. Since the Honduran-born Ovando then spoke no English and the Israeli-born Toister didn't speak Spanish, they conversed through an interpreter. But Ovando could barely talk in any language. A month and a half earlier, on Oct. 12, Perez and Durden, the two officers he was accused of assaulting, had shot him in the neck and chest. Through the interpreter, Ovando softly asserted his innocence and said he did not remember much of what happened except that "bad cops" had tried to kill him.
No one believed Ovando, who had the number 18 tattooed on the back of his neck, signifying membership in the 18th Street Gang, known in Los Angeles for its narcotics dealings and brutal killings. Nor did anyone in the courtroom except Ovando believe that Perez was a bad cop. To those gathered at the hearing, Perez seemed composed and credible as he told how Ovando, brandishing a Tec-22 semiautomatic pistol, had burst into a darkened fourth-floor room of an abandoned apartment building that he and Durden were using as an observation post to monitor gang activity in the street below. 
 According to Perez's account at the hearing, he and Durden had fired first, dropping Ovando with four shots. When backup officers and an ambulance arrived, Ovando was lying in a pool of blood, the weapon beside him. One of the backups later recalled that Perez, who had fired three times, was surprised that the man he had hit was still alive. But this did not trouble the officer at the time. It didn't trouble Perez either. He and his partner were warriors in Rampart, Los Angeles's toughest neighborhood. To officers of the Rampart division of Community Resources Against Street Hoodlums, called by its acronym, Crash, gang members deserved whatever fate awaited them, whether it was death in the crowded communities they had made so dangerous or prison sentences that would keep them behind bars until they were old.
At the end of the 25-minute hearing, Ovando, then 19, was ordered to stand trial on seven felony charges. Based solely on what Perez had told them, prosecutors claimed that Ovando was a gang assassin out to kill police officers. Toister, the public defender, did not question the theory. She did, however, question the deal being offered by a deputy of Gil Garcetti, the district attorney, who was waging a publicized war on gangs: 13 years in prison. In Toister's view, that was way too severe. Ovando had no criminal record. He had also been shot four times and was now paralyzed from the waist down. Believing that Ovando had been punished for whatever he did, Toister decided to try the case before a jury.
At the time, neither Toister nor anyone else had any inkling that what took place between the two officers and Javier Ovando would grow into the Rampart scandal. It was hard to imagine that an apparently cut-and-dried gang case would lead to the investigation of 70 police officers -- 4 of whom are to go on trial in the next few days -- and the release of 100 prisoners framed by the police. It was even harder to envision that it would result in an astonishing consent decree that for the first time in history will put the fiercely independent L.A.P.D. under the supervision of the federal government. Most inconceivable of all, perhaps, was the fact that the widest, most damaging crisis in the department's history would be brought about by the actions of one crooked police officer: Rafael Perez.
Rampart, west of downtown, is a compact warren of dense, dangerous neighborhoods that leads Los Angeles in homicides, narcotics sales and violent crimes. Out-of-town visitors to other poor sections of the city, even South Central, are often surprised to find homes surrounded by tidy lawns and neighborhoods sprinkled with parks and greenery. Such amenities are rare in Rampart, where open space is scarce, crowded high-rises abound and trees do not grow easily.
Bounded on the north by Sunset Boulevard, on the west by Normandie Avenue, and on the east and south by freeways, Rampart encompasses only 7.9 square miles but has the highest population density of any urban area west of the Mississippi, officially 36,000 people per square mile. Not included in this count are thousands of illegal immigrants. According to an L.A.P.D. report, "many of these people speak only Spanish and are not well versed in the customs and laws of the United States. Some have a history of distrust for law enforcement stemming from their perceptions of law enforcement within their home countries. These factors have proven to be a challenge for every new commanding officer assigned to the Rampart area."
Beginning in the late 1970's, life on the streets in the Rampart area was controlled by more than 60 gangs, often organized along ethnic lines. Amid the gangs from El Salvador, Nicaragua and Guatemala, Javier Ovando's gang, the 18th Street Gang, was notable for its brutality and its multiethnic and sometimes interracial membership. The gang terrorized neighborhoods, sold narcotics and rented space to drug dealers. But it also functioned as a haven for jobless Latinos who lived on the streets during the severe recession of the early 90's. This is what brought Ovando into the fold. Ovando said he joined the gang because he was on his own at 16 and without a roof over his head. The gang, he said, became "mia familia." His family.
The family Ovando found was at war with crash and the L.A.P.D. Gangs had been a focus of the Los Angeles police since the late 1970's, when violence, sparked by immigration and a bad economy, jumped alarmingly. The department, which traditionally relied on technology and aggressive tactics to compensate for the relatively small numbers available to police a vast area, responded in a multitude of ways. One of its first initiatives was Crash, the elite antigang force. Another was Operation Hammer, the brainchild of Chief Daryl Gates, which rounded up suspected gang members en masse.
The L.A.P.D.'s war on gangs soon led to a series of well-publicized controversies. Operation Hammer, already under fire from civil libertarians, was thoroughly discredited in 1988 when its officers destroyed four apartment buildings they mistakenly thought were crack houses. Then, in 1991, came the videotaped beating of Rodney King and the creation of a commission, led by Warren Christopher, that proposed various reforms in the L.A.P.D. In 1992, the officers accused of assaulting King were acquitted by a suburban jury, setting off fearsome riots in which 54 people were killed. The police department was suddenly on the defensive. Chief Gates retired. His successor, Willie Williams, was not reappointed after his first five-year term. Bernard Parks, the third chief in a decade, has been under fire practically since his appointment in 1997.
Though sometimes criticized for excesses, Crash survived. Crash officers worked in tough places and were expected to confront violence with violence. Rampart Crash, which varied in size from a dozen officers in winter to as many as 20 in summer, when gang activity peaked, was an especially tight-knit group. Officers gave plaques to comrades who shot gang members. Rampart members wore logos and patches, the most notorious of which was a skull with a cowboy hat and a poker hand of a pair of aces and a pair of eights, the dead-man's hand that the frontier outlaw Wild Bill Hickock was holding when he was shot to death. "Rampart was home to a bunch of cowboy cops," said David Smith, an L.A.P.D. captain who had several encounters with the unit.
Rampart Crash became even more independent in 1995 when, because of overcrowding in the main Rampart station house, the unit moved to a substation nearly two miles away. There, the cowboy cops were almost entirely on their own, and they weren't shy about expressing their separateness. While most of the city's Crash officers were required to work in uniform, Rampart Crash members made a point of showing up in street clothes. Captain Smith recounted that when he responded to a call from a Rampart resident who had been roughed up by police officers, he was told to mind his own business. "There were all sorts of warning signals coming out of Rampart," he said.
Notable among these was the "999 key." Along with a gun and a badge, every Los Angeles police officer is issued what is known as a 999 key, which allows him access to all the police stations in the city. When Rampart Crash officers moved to their substation, though, they rekeyed the entrance to 888. Rampart Crash was its own police department with its own rules. And two of its star members were Rafael Perez and Nino Durden.
On Feb. 13, 1997, People V. Ovando went to trial. in the days following the pretrial hearing the previous November, Toister became suspicious about police conduct in the case. Had Ovando been set up? she wondered. Why would the gang member, bent on assassination, burst from a lighted hallway into a darkened room where the officers would have had a much better view of him, silhouetted against the light, than he would have had of them?
Speaking to Ovando and his girlfriend, Monique Valenzuela, Toister pieced together a story that contradicted the L.A.P.D. account. Though his memory was shaky, Ovando told the public defender that before he was shot the officers handcuffed him and a friend known as Nene and questioned them about a Pomona burglary that had supposedly yielded the gang an arms cache. After interrogating them in the trash-strewn room, Perez and Durden let Nene go. On the way out, Nene encountered Valenzuela, who asked about Ovando. Nene told her that he was being questioned and would be released soon. Then they heard shots from inside the building. Nene ran away.
Despite Toister's suspicions, she knew she had a weak case. With Nene's disappearance, the public defender had only the inadmissible hearsay of the girlfriend's statement and Ovando's shaky memory. Moreover, Stephen Czuleger, the Superior Court judge who would try the case, told Toister that if Ovando testified, he would allow the prosecution to cross-examine him about graffiti in the building where Ovando was shot. One piece read "L.A.P.D. 187" -- a reference to the California penal-code number for murder -- and it meant, in gang lingo, "Kill cops." It didn't help that Ovando's 18th Street nickname was Sniper. Toister never called him to testify.
When the trial started, Toister tried to find out from Perez how Ovando had known that the two officers were in the darkened upstairs apartment. Perez, altering an earlier version of his story, explained that he had not seen gang activity in the normally busy street below. The reason, he suspected, was that a gang member had spotted his car, an unmarked blue Taurus. Perez testified that he and Durden left the observation post, scaled a 10-foot-high fence around the building, moved the car, then scaled the fence again and returned to the apartment. According to Perez, Ovando supposedly followed the officers into the building after seeing them climb the fence. What fence? Toister wanted to know. It was not mentioned in the original police report.
Toister asked the judge for a continuance to inspect the building and see the fence. The judge refused. When Toister tried to cross-examine the officers about discrepancies between their first report and their revised account, the prosecutor objected and the judge sustained his objections. Throughout the trial, Toister couldn't seem to catch a break. "What happened was dirty," she told me later. "I did all I could but I wasn't allowed to put on a defense."
Ovando, stoic in his courtroom demeanor, was becoming increasingly desperate. To complicate things, Valenzuela had told him she was pregnant. "I became very sad," he said quietly. "I cried. I admit I cried. What could I do?" The trial lasted a week and ended on Feb. 20, with the jury finding Javier Ovando guilty of all charges. Judge Czuleger sentenced him to 23 years in prison, declining a request for leniency because, he said, Ovando had shown no remorse for his crimes.
Rafael Perez, who was to become a golden boy of the rampart Crash unit, was born in Puerto Rico in 1967 and came to the United States when he was a small child. After several moves he landed in Philadelphia, where he was reared by his mother. His lawyer, Winston Kevin McKesson, said that Perez remembers standing on a street corner as a boy, watching drug dealers and imagining that he would one day be the cop who arrested them -- just like the L.A.P.D. officers on "Adam-12." Perez graduated from high school in 1985 and joined the Marines. In 1989, he was hired by the L.A.P.D.
After starting out on routine patrol duties, Perez was sent to a narcotics unit and, in 1995, was transferred to Rampart Crash. There, he quickly established himself as a rough-and-tumble officer, valued for his fluency in Spanish and his knowledge of gang ways. Ethan Cohan, who worked with Perez in Crash, told me that officers from the unit sometimes bet on which team would find a gun on a gang member that night. "Perez always won," said Cohan. "I just thought, This guy is really good."
Perez might still be in Crash -- and Javier Ovando almost certainly would still be in jail -- if it was not for three events, all of which conspired to put Perez and Rampart on the radar screen of the L.A.P.D. high command.
The first of these occurred on Nov. 6, 1997, nine months after Ovando had been sent to prison. That morning, two armed men entered a Bank of America branch in South Central and demanded money from Errolyn Romero, the customer-service manager. She gave them $722,000 that had been delivered earlier that day by armored car. The detectives who investigated the robbery soon learned that Romero had ordered delivery of the money. After questioning, she broke down and confessed that the robbery had been planned and carried out by her boyfriend, David Mack, a flamboyant and streetwise L.A.P.D. officer who had served in Rampart and was a close friend of Rafael Perez.
Investigators soon learned that Mack and Perez had gone to Las Vegas to celebrate together two days after the robbery. They were old friends from pre-Rampart days, when they worked narcotics detail. Perez told investigators that, while he knew nothing about the robbery, he looked up to Mack. The older officer, he claimed, had once saved his life by shooting a drug dealer who had pulled a gun on Perez. Police investigators weren't sure if the story was true; two eyewitnesses claimed that Mack shot the drug dealer without provocation, but an L.A.P.D. inquiry found the shooting justifiable.
On March 17, 1999, the 39-year-old Mack was convicted on federal charges of bank robbery and sentenced to 14 years in prison. Because of her cooperation, Romero received a sentence of only two and a half years. But the stolen money has never been recovered and neither the other robber nor the driver of the getaway van have been identified. Investigators thought that Perez might have been the driver, but they had no evidence to prove it.
The second event occurred the night of Feb. 26, 1998, when two Rampart Crash officers detained a young gang suspect. As another L.A.P.D. disciplinary board reconstructed events, Officer Brian Hewitt entered an interview room in the Rampart substation and choked and beat the suspect until he vomited blood. When the gang member was released, he checked into a hospital and reported the incident. Chief Parks ordered that administrative charges be brought against Hewitt and two other officers accused of not reporting the incident. Hewitt and one of the officers were fired.
A month later, officers in the L.A.P.D.'s property division, which is responsible for storing evidence and impounded goods, discovered that six pounds of cocaine had been checked out for a court appearance and never returned. The officer who had signed for the cocaine was Rafael Perez. When officers from internal affairs discovered that the case Perez had obtained the cocaine for had already been adjudicated, a full-scale, secret investigation was launched. It revealed that Perez had checked out cocaine in other cases, including some in which he had not even been involved.
For weeks, internal affairs shadowed Perez, tracking his movements and gathering evidence. Then, in the early-morning hours of Aug. 25, 1998, police officers descended on his house with sirens blaring and led him away in handcuffs as startled neighbors, who had been led to believe that Perez was a wealthy contractor, watched in disbelief. He was arrested and tried in December 1998 for possession of cocaine for sale, grand theft and forgery. The jury deadlocked, though the vote was 8-4 for conviction.
While Perez was awaiting retrial, investigators examining his financial records found unexplained deposits. They also learned that he had remodeled his home extensively -- all on a police officer's $58,000 base salary. Playing hardball, prosecutors threatened to file charges against Perez's wife, a civilian employee of the L.A.P.D. whom they claimed knew of his illegal activities. With a young daughter at home, Perez didn't want to run the risk that his wife might end up in jail. He decided to cut a deal.
On Sept. 8, 1999, Perez's lawyer, Winston Kevin McKesson, a protege of Johnnie Cochran Jr., negotiated an agreement in which his client promised to expose misconduct within Rampart Crash in exchange for a five-year prison sentence, immunity from further prosecution and total immunity for his wife. With time off for good behavior, Perez faces only 16 months behind bars, most of it in a secure Los Angeles jail rather than the harsher confines of a state prison. District Attorney Garcetti realized that this was a sweet deal for Perez, but he had been told by the officer's lawyer that an innocent man was serving 23 years in prison for a crime he hadn't committed. So Garcetti agreed to the deal, and Perez began talking. What he had to say in more than 50 hours of interrogation shocked even the hardened L.A.P.D. detectives who interviewed him.
When the investigators asked Perez about the cocaine thefts that had ultimately led them to him, the Crash officer told them that he had started dealing drugs in 1997. That year, he and Durden had arrested a suspect and found a bag containing a pound of powder cocaine. They kept the drugs -- along with the suspect's pager. When the pager went off, Perez pretended to be a dealer and took an order for a quarter-pound of cocaine. According to Perez, the officers went out to make the arrest, but Durden said: " 'Screw it. Let's just sell to him.' And I completely agreed."
The two men kept the pager and made two more deals, netting $10,000. Perez then turned his attention to the police evidence lockers, which promised a much richer drug harvest. While Perez pleaded guilty to stealing the eight pounds of cocaine, police investigators say it is very likely that he took more, for some of the drugs he checked out and then returned had been destroyed by the time of the plea agreement.
On the topic of the framings, Perez told investigators that in Rampart Crash it was commonplace to set up gang members on weapons and drug charges. He added that such tactics had the approval of his commanding officer, Sgt. Edward Ortiz, who is due to stand trial. "Ortiz was the heart, and we were the arteries," Perez said. "Ortiz had the final say-so on everything."
In his interviews with police investigators, Perez made clear that he saw nothing wrong with setting up gang members. "These guys don't play by the rules; we don't have to play by the rules," Perez said. "They're out there committing murders and then they intimidate the witnesses, so the witnesses don't show up in court. So they're getting away with murder every day."
As Perez saw it, he was evening the score. "When I planted a case on someone, did I feel bad?" he asked. "Not once. I felt good. I felt, you know, I'm taking this guy off the streets."
One of the suspects Perez helped frame was Rafael Zambrano. In Perez's account, a group of Crash officers invaded a gang party and ordered everyone in attendance to their knees. Brian Hewitt, the officer who would later be fired for beating a gang member in the substation, marched back and forth, arbitrarily singling out gang members and telling other officers the false charges on which to book them. Zambrano was charged with possession of a gun; he pleaded guilty to avoid a longer sentence and served 16 months in prison.
Perez and his accomplices did not stop at false imprisonment. They also shot unarmed people, then made up stories to justify the shootings. Running after a group of gang members in 1996, Crash officers opened fire, hitting Juan Saldana, 21, in the chest and back. Instead of calling an ambulance, the officers planted a gun alongside Saldana and calmly concocted a story to tell their superiors. By the time an ambulance arrived, it was too late for Saldana, who died soon after being taken to a hospital. Afterward, the officers celebrated at the Short Stop, a sports bar near Dodger Stadium. Such celebrations became frequent in Rampart Crash, where officer-involved shootings leaped from three in 1995 to a dozen in 1996.
Of all Perez's confessions, however, the Ovando shooting was the most disturbing to investigators. The truth of the Ovando case emerged bit by bit in the questioning of Perez by police investigators and Deputy District Attorney Richard Rosenthal. At first, Perez said Ovando had entered the observation room and was shot by Durden. Perez hadn't seen a gun on Ovando, but his view had been blocked by Durden; he said he moved to one side and fired immediately, hitting Ovando.
This story didn't ring true to the investigators, who questioned Ovando and then tracked down his friend Nene, whose real name is Alex Macias. Though the two men had not seen each other since the day Ovando was shot, they told identical stories about events prior to the shooting.
Ovando, Macias and Valenzuela had been camping out in the vacant building where the shooting took place. On Oct. 11, the day before the incident, they were rousted by Perez and Durden and ordered to leave. They waited in a nearby building until Perez and Durden had left and then returned to spend the night. The next day, while Valenzuela was away, Ovando and Macias were rousted again, handcuffed and led once more into the dark room the officers were using as an observation post. Perez told Macias to go and said that Ovando would soon follow. Macias did not think Ovando was in danger. As Macias and Valenzuela were talking outside the building, they heard shots, just as she had told Toister.
When detectives presented Perez with this account, his memory improved. His new version was that he had heard voices outside the observation room and turned in time to see Durden shoot Ovando. Perez then fired three times. Durden, now awaiting trial, has yet to tell his story, but defense lawyers for other indicted Crash officers question Perez's claim that he shot reflexively. A more malign explanation, as yet untested in court, is that Perez tried to finish off Ovando so that there would be no witness to the crime. The motive for the shooting remains a mystery. Ovando told me that he thinks that he was handcuffed when he was shot and that he still has no idea why the officers shot him. He agrees with Perez on the crucial point that Durden fired first.
Perez was most explicit in describing how Ovando had been framed. A few days earlier, Perez said that Durden had taken the Tec-22 semiautomatic from a gang member. Durden had filed off the serial number so it could be used as a "throwaway" gun in emergencies. This was one of them. After the Ovando shooting, Perez said, Durden took the gun from his backpack, wiped it clean of fingerprints with a rag and placed it next to Ovando. Perez said he remembered the backpack because he had kidded Durden when it became tangled in the fence the two officers scaled to enter the building.
Oddly, the fence that had aroused Toister's suspicions was one of the few matters on which Perez had been accurate. The rest of his testimony was a series of lies, and the theory that Ovando was a gang assassin a total invention. When Toister learned of the frame-up, she said that she also felt like a victim. Judge Czuleger, who had prevented her cross-examination of Perez and Durden, apologized to the public defender. In an interview, Czuleger told me that he was shocked by the injustice that had occurred in his court. "It was," he said, "the worst day of my judicial career." But it was worse for Ovando, who spent three years in prison and remains paralyzed.
For Bernard Parks, the 56-year-old Chief Of Police, Sept. 15, 1999, started well. That morning, he had presided at a ceremony honoring 18 officers who were being awarded the department's coveted medal of valor. A few hours later, Parks received a phone call that banished his good mood. It was from the district attorney's office, and it was about Rafael Perez. At a hastily called news conference that afternoon, Parks announced the first confessions of this rogue cop.
Rampart was another challenge in what, for Parks, had already been a bumpy ride as chief. A hardened 35-year L.A.P.D. veteran, Parks joined the force in 1965 and worked his way up through the ranks at a time when it was difficult for an African-American to rise above sergeant. In 1997, with the support of reformers who wanted to restrain L.A.P.D. excesses and officers who wanted the department to be run by one of its own, Parks was named police chief by Mayor Richard Riordan.
His honeymoon was short. Early on, he alienated rank-and-file officers with an order requiring investigation of every citizen complaint against a police officer. Complaints soared, and the Police Protective League, the police union, said officers were getting bogged down in paperwork. Too bad, said Parks, who had a reputation as a strict disciplinarian. The complaint system, he observed, was intended to serve the public, not the L.A.P.D.
Parks responded to the Rampart scandal with similar vigor. The day after the news conference, he had Javier Ovando flown from a prison in Salinas, Calif., to Los Angeles, where he was able to meet his 2 1/2-year-old daughter, Destiny, for the first time. Parks also named a board of inquiry that produced a thoughtful report critical of the lack of supervision in Rampart Crash. The police chief then disbanded all the department's Crash units and replaced them with antigang squads that have tighter supervision.
While Rampart started as a police scandal, it has rapidly exposed deep flaws in the entire Los Angeles County legal system.
According to Michael Judge, the city's chief public defender, "The criminal-justice system in Los Angeles County is seriously out of balance." Corrupt police officers have been protected by laws, ballot initiatives and court decisions that have tipped the scale against defendants. "Taken together, these changes in the criminal justice system have made it easier for police to lie and get away with it," said Harland Braun, a defense attorney who represents Michael Buchanan, one of the Rampart officers about to go on trial.
California's "three strikes" law, one of the nation's toughest, has played a special role. The law carries a 25-years-to-life sentence. To avoid being subjected to "three strikes," many defendants plead guilty. Guilty pleas, in turn, reduce the chances of police officers getting caught in lies. "Police officers aren't stupid," said Judge. "They know that less than 5 percent of felony cases come to trial. So the odds are very good they won't face cross-examination on what is in their report."
In those cases when Crash officers were compelled to testify, they were often helped along by Los Angeles County judges. In an astonishing number of Crash cases, these judges showed an almost total lack of skepticism about whether the officers had made legitimate arrests. The L.A.P.D. Board of Inquiry report on the Rampart scandal cites a case in which members of Rampart Crash searched the cars of people attending a gang member's funeral. Drugs were found in one vehicle, and the driver was tried and convicted. Commenting on this case, Dan Koenig, the L.A.P.D. commander who wrote the board of inquiry report, asked, "Where is the probable cause in a case like this?"
Five Los Angeles County judges interviewed for this article said that they have presided over trials in which they suspected police officers of lying. "When police officers lie, it's usually about probable cause," said Judge Czuleger, who handled the Ovando trial. But another veteran judge, speaking on condition of anonymity, said, "An officer who will lie about probable cause will lie about anything."
A Los Angeles judge with long experience, who also insisted that he not be named, believes that judges were perhaps unwittingly complicit in the Rampart scandal. "It's said we need to change the police culture, and that's absolutely necessary," he remarked. "But we have to change the judicial culture too. The judicial culture is hostile to the defense. You'll hear judges talking at lunch about some stupid thing a defense attorney did -- they rarely talk that way about a prosecutor. I don't think they're aware how biased they sound."
Judges are also under tremendous pressure to keep their jobs. "If a judge is labeled soft on crime, it's a sure ticket to no longer being a judge," said McKesson, Perez's lawyer. A judge who doesn't seem tough enough can pretty much expect an election challenge from an ambitious prosecutor, a daunting prospect in Los Angeles County, where even a bare-bones campaign can cost $100,000.
Taken together, these forces have conspired to create a situation in which there is a presumption of guilt, especially for gang members. Those who have tried to go against this trend have met with little success -- or worse. In 1997, Michael Kraut, a deputy district attorney, refused to prosecute a Perez arrest because he thought the Crash officer was lying. As a result, he was publicly criticized by his boss, Garcetti, and other deputies in the district attorney's office.
In 1995, Evan Freed, a deputy city attorney, grew concerned about the truthfulness of charges being brought against a young African-American man accused of carrying a concealed weapon after an alleged burglary. As a result of inconsistencies in the reports of Edward Ruiz and Jon Paul Taylor, officers in the L.A.P.D.'s 77th Street Division, Freed urged that charges be dismissed against the man, who had no criminal record. Judge Kenneth Chotiner agreed, praising the attorney. A few months later, Freed was fired by the city attorney for supposed professional weaknesses that included "deference to statements made by defense witnesses, recommending unreasonably low sentences and a low conviction rate."
The behavior of the officers in this case gnawed at Chotiner, who discussed it with a civil rights lawyer, who in turn reported it to the U.S. attorney. An F.B.I. investigation confirmed the suspicions of judge and prosecutor -- the defendant was innocent, he had no weapon and there had never been a burglary in the first place. The case took five years to play out. In August, Ruiz and Taylor pleaded guilty to violating the civil rights of the man they had falsely accused. They are awaiting sentencing. Judge Chotiner believes that the Ruiz-Taylor case and the Rampart scandal suggest the need for "a thorough citywide investigation to see if such actions are widespread."
The citizens of Los Angeles are not blameless. What distinguishes this scandal from other Los Angeles police scandals is not just its scale (massive) but the sheer lack of public outcry in response to it. The muted reaction may have something to do with the fact that, unlike the Rodney King beating and the assault on the truck driver Reginald Denny during the 1992 riots, the Ovando shooting was not especially suited for TV. Nonetheless, the story has received vigorous coverage from The Los Angeles Times and weekly newspapers -- and still people remain relatively unperturbed over police abuses.
In interviews in the Rampart area this summer, I found residents far more worried about emboldened gangs than police misconduct. Residents say that officers, now concerned about being perceived as overly aggressive, too often cruise down the street in their patrol cars -- a practice known within the L.A.P.D. as drive and wave -- instead of engaging in aggressive policing. "People have to make a choice, and most residents fear the gangs more than the police," said Gregory Rodriguez, a Latino writer who until recently lived on the edge of Rampart, where freshly painted graffiti attest to the resurgence of gangs. Violent crime is up 9 percent this year in poor neighborhoods after years of decline. Gang-related homicides are up 116 percent. Arrests and field interviews of suspected criminals are down.
The predominantly Latino community of Rampart has been supportive of the L.A.P.D. "One reason the Rampart case hasn't produced the public outcry of the King case is that this is not a case with white officers and a black victim," noted Erwin Chemerinsky, a University of Southern California law professor who has reviewed the L.A.P.D.'s Rampart inquiry for the Police Protective League. A 1997 poll by the Center for the Study of Los Angeles at Loyola Marymount University found that Latinos had higher regard for the police than any ethnic group; blacks had the least. After the Perez disclosures, police supporters staged a well-attended pro-Rampart rally; a protest rally scheduled for the following day never came off.
But the main reason for a noticeable lack of outrage may simply be that Angelenos of all ethnicities tacitly condone harsh measures to suppress the gangs. "For a long time, there's been a wink and a nod," said Gary Fullerton, a former L.A.P.D. detective and a lawyer. "That's why we have a war on crime. The people want the criminals caught. The chief wants them caught. The supervisors of the officers want them caught. The politicians want them caught. It's the system. But when something happens, it's the officer. The system goes all out to get him."
But the most immediate victim of the Rampart scandal is not likely to be a police officer but Gil Garcetti, the hard-hitting district attorney who made a point of prosecuting gangs. Garcetti, who is up for re-election next month, lags far behind in the polls to his head deputy, Stephen Cooley. Garcetti could find himself in even worse shape if he loses what he acknowledges will be difficult prosecutions of the four Rampart officers: Sgt. Edward Ortiz and Sgt. Brian Liddy and Officers Paul Harper and Michael Buchanan.
Perez will be the principal prosecution witness in these trials. Harland Braun says that Garcetti struck "a Faustian bargain" with Perez, who "knowingly framed innocent civilians and is now trying to frame innocent cops." On the first point, at least, Braun is persuasive. Instead of arresting gang kingpins, Perez focused his energies on minor gang members like Ovando, described by a prosecution source as "little more than a gang mascot." Amazingly, no one who was framed by Perez and had his conviction set aside has been arrested again.
Speaking in his 18th-floor office with a soaring view of downtown, Garcetti concedes Perez made "mistakes" in some of his recollections. Perez also flunked five polygraph tests. A judge has ruled that this information will be admissible in the trial of the officers because Perez took the tests as a condition of his plea agreement. "Perez is who he is," Garcetti said philosophically in an interview. "He's a liar. He tells the truth, too, but can you tell when he's telling the truth and when he's not telling the truth? That's why it's important for us to corroborate what he is telling. If we can't corroborate what he is telling us, then you don't have a criminal prosecution."
Unlike Garcetti, Bernard Parks, the chief of police, isn't an elected official, but he is also on the defensive. Parks has been faulted on every aspect of the Rampart scandal -- for reacting too slowly and for overreacting, for disciplining officers who were only marginally involved and for not disciplining enough. He is engaged in a running battle with The Los Angeles Times, which he accused on the L.A.P.D. Web site of waging "a holy jihad against this department."
Parks expresses frustration at receiving so little credit for reforming an "unhealthy" department. "We have not gotten the best balanced reporting from our local press," he told me as he sat at a table in his memorabilia-filled office. "Most people are not aware that the Los Angeles Police Department found the misconduct and immediately took action."
Parks went on. "In three years, although people say the civil-service system is very difficult to work with, we have disciplined over 800 officers and terminated 113," he said in measured tones. "We have had 200 officers leave the department while being investigated. We have had a number of officers that we refused to promote because of their prior disciplinary history."
Parks's frustration is likely to grow, for his actions, however impressive, have done little to mollify his critics. Relations between the chief and the rank and file are rocky. A Police Protective League official claims that Parks has tried to "reform by fear." A prosecutor compares Parks's relationship with his officers to a strict parent who raises obedient children who grow up seething with rage. Command officers are also in quiet rebellion. The L.A.P.D. board of rights, composed primarily of captains, fired only 3 of the 14 officers whom Parks sought to discipline in the Rampart scandal. Fifty-one other Rampart officers remain under investigation, but it seems very unlikely that any will be disciplined based on accusations by Perez.
Critics of the L.A.P.D. are angry that Parks has not opened up the force to civilian oversight. According to David Smith, the police captain, the chief's attitude typifies "the arrogance of power that afflicts L.A.P.D. leadership." Jeffrey Eglash, the city's inspector general, is frustrated the L.A.P.D. has not been more willing to let the public play a role in minding the police force. "It is unfortunate that the department seems to view the inspector general's office as an adversary when a cooperative and constructive relationship would better serve the L.A.P.D. and the city," Eglash remarked.
The city has been hit by a barrage of civil rights lawsuits -- 68 at last count, and growing -- arising from the scandal. James Hahn, the city attorney, has estimated this could cost the city at least $125 million.
With the city's recent acceptance of the consent decree, though, the focus now is less on the lawsuits than on reforms that can be accomplished with federal oversight. The decree, administered by a federal judge, has the potential to bring about many of the changes proposed by the Christopher Commission after the beating of Rodney King. It will require the L.A.P.D. to conduct computerized tracking of officers with a history of misconduct. It will monitor arrests to see if officers are using racial profiling. The consent decree will also expand the public's access to information about L.A.P.D. operations.
Parks, for his part, has promised he will carry out the decree, which is aimed at rooting out corruption and ending what the Justice Department has called a "pattern or practice" of civil rights infringements. "We are now committed," Parks told reporters late last month. "We are not going to drag our feet."
Still, the chief may have heeded the call too late. "If Bernie had embraced civilian oversight, he'd be a hero, but he just can't do it," said Katherine Mader, the city's first inspector general and now a deputy district attorney who has just been elected judge. "He's like a figure in a Greek tragedy in which his need for total control is his fatal flaw." The same might be said for Mayor Riordan, who fought tooth and nail against the decree and now seems likely to claim it as part of his political legacy. Riordan's surrender is an acknowledgment that control of the L.A.P.D. has slipped away from both the mayor and the chief.
While the Los Angeles Police Department has always relied on aggressive policing, it has rarely been corrupt. This is largely the legacy of William Parker, who led the force from 1950 to 1968. During his tenure, Parker remodeled the department in his stern image, making corruption a firing offense. He also made the L.A.P.D. a political power, saying "the future of America may well rest in the police."
Rafael Perez was never really part of that culture. Unlike most L.A.P.D. officers, he came from out of state and was recruited at a time when the department, in the opinion of Commander Koenig, was relying too heavily on telephone interviews and not doing a good enough job screening candidates.
Perez's ethnicity also set him apart. "There aren't many Puerto Ricans in Los Angeles, let alone the L.A.P.D," said McKesson, who is black and was raised in South Central Los Angeles. "The Puerto Rican culture is closer to African-American culture in some ways than it is to Latino culture in Los Angeles." The lawyer believes that Perez never felt comfortable in his adopted home. Within the department, his closest friends, including Durden and Mack, were African-Americans.
To many of those who worked with him, Perez remains a mystery. "When he wanted to be Latino, he was Rafael," said Officer Ethan Cohan, a former colleague in Crash. "When he wanted to be black, he was Rafe." During an early interrogation after he became an informant, Perez was asked if he wanted to be addressed as Rafael. "Call me Ray," he responded.
Perez's criminal history is equally murky. It is unclear, for example, when he went bad. Esaw Booker, whom Perez arrested in 1992 for cocaine possession and whose conviction has since been overturned, has claimed that he was framed by Perez and other officers. What's potentially important about Booker's account is that it dates from when Perez was working with Mack in the narcotics unit -- years before he entered Rampart.
While it's not clear when Perez first broke the law, there's no doubt that he, like his friend David Mack, enjoyed the dual role of criminal and cop. One Rampart officer, who declined to be named, told me that Perez spoke admiringly of a book, "Point Blank," about corruption in the New York Police Department; it includes a chapter relating how cocaine seized in the famous French Connection case disappeared from a property room and was replaced with bags of flour.
Perez, not surprisingly, claims that it was the aggressive L.A.P.D. culture itself that corrupted him. In a tearful statement at his sentencing earlier this year, Perez said he had become consumed by the "us-against-them ethos of the overzealous cop" after he transferred to Rampart Crash. His was a cautionary tale. "My job became an intoxicant that I lusted after," he said. "I began to lust also for things of the flesh. The end result: I cheated on my wife, I cheated on my employers and I cheated on all of you, the people of Los Angeles." Perez warned rookie officers not to be seduced by the "pressure of status, numbers and impressing supervisors" or by "flip, awful statements" like the one that appeared over the door of Rampart Crash, "We intimidate those who intimidate others."
"To those mottoes, I offer this," Perez concluded. "Whoever chases monsters should see to it that in the process he does not become a monster himself."
Monster or not, Perez has had a deeper impact on the L.A.P.D. than any other officer in its acclaimed and troubled history -- even more than the officers involved in the beating of Rodney King. While the King incident was a public relations disaster, many officers dismissed it as an isolated incident that occurred at the distant fringes of Los Angeles. Rampart is in the heart of the city, and it is the division where many officers prove themselves. The crimes described by Perez involved both blatant frame-ups and corruption and demonstrate that there are fundamental problems at the core of the L.A.P.D.
"Things need to be fixed," says Javier Ovando, the Rampart scandal's most famous victim. The fixing will now be done at the direction of a federal judge. Rafael Perez has guaranteed that power in Los Angeles will no longer remain in the hands of the police.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Once a golden boy of the L.A.P.D., Rafael Perez has become a symbol of its decay.; Javier Ovando was shot and framed by L.A.P.D. officers, then sentenced to 23 years in prison.; The reformer under fire: Police Chief Bernanrd Parks. (Robert Yager/SIPA Press for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES POLICE FEDERAL CREDIT UNION (92%); LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPARTMENT (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPARTMENT (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PUBLIC DEFENDERS (89%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); GANGS (87%); SCANDALS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); FELONIES (75%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (75%); SHOOTINGS (73%); SENTENCING (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (63%); 

PERSON: JAVIER FRANCISCO OVANDO (94%); RAFAEL PEREZ (91%); TAMAR TOISTER (78%); NINO DURDEN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



3 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 13; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: A New Port of Call, in Panama

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
LIKE children with their noses pressed up against a candy-store window, Panamanian tourism officials had watched with longing and frustration as cruise ships full of tourists glided tantalizingly through the canal on their way to the Caribbean or South America. But starting this month, vacationers who would have seen Panama only from a ship's railing finally will be able to go ashore when Panama inaugurates Colon 2000, a $45 million cruise ship port on the Caribbean entrance to the legendary canal.
The project, a joint venture between the Panamanian Government and a private developer, is a major advance in Panama's quest to transform its image and economy since the United States handed over the last of its military bases on Dec. 31. 
 While other projects in the former Canal Zone have been geared to the more mundane businesses of shipping and cargo, backers of Colon 2000 hope to lure tourists ashore with the promise of duty-free shopping to the accompaniment of music and folk dancing at a two-story, 190,000-square-foot mall and a 150-room Radisson Hotel, scheduled to open in June.
Eighty port calls are already expected for the first year, by ships from Carnival, Celebrity Cruises, Holland America and Princess Cruises. Visitors can go fishing or golfing near Colon, or even dash down to Panama City at the canal's Pacific entrance and tour the Canal Museum or shop at the handicrafts market.
"We are the only port of call that can offer a shore excursion that would include a tour of both the Caribbean and the Pacific." said Augusto Terracina, the marketing manager for Colon 2000.
The lush lands along the canal's route boast bird sanctuaries and eco-tourism resorts. An odd transformation has taken place at the former School of the Americas, the controversial finishing school for Latin American military leaders, which the Spanish hotel chain Sol Melia has converted into a secluded resort on Gatun Lake near Colon.
But there are security concerns for tourists. The city, which was a boom town during the canal's construction between 1904 and 1914, has many rundown areas rife with crime. Panamanians hope the new projects will create jobs and ease unemployment. Although tourism officials are hopeful enough about Colon that they will offer tours of its old section, some Panamanians are doubtful that the city's fortunes have improved enough to make it attractive to tourists. At any rate, it is not the kind of place where tourists should wander alone.
The city's grim sections are in contrast to the commercial buzz inside the Colon Free Trade Zone, the biggest in the world after Hong Kong. Panamanian officials are taking advantage of the port's proximity to the free zone to offer bargains in everything from electronics to Gucci.
"The prices tourists are going to find here will be much better than in other ports because we have the free trade zone which distributes to the Caribbean," Mr. Terracina said. "St. Thomas is one of the most popular shopping ports. Well, we distribute to St. Thomas. That right there would save the passenger lots of money." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MEL (MCE) (55%); MEL (FRA) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (55%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (55%); 

COUNTRY: PANAMA (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

COMPANY: MELIA HOTELS INTERNATIONAL SA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PANAMA (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CRUISES (92%); TOURISM (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); RESORTS (78%); ECOTOURISM (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (76%); HOTEL CHAINS (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); JOB CREATION (60%); JOINT VENTURES (55%); GOLF (51%); BIRDS (50%); 

PERSON: COLON FREE (89%); AUGUSTO TERRACINA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



4 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 6; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2838 words

HEADLINE: FRUGAL TRAVELER;
A Buffet Line of Cultures in Las Vegas

BYLINE: By JUDITH ANDERSON; JUDITH ANDERSON, who writes frequently about the Southwest, lives in Tucson.

 BODY:
I'D heard that Las Vegas had gone upscale, but I wanted to see for myself. I liked it the old way: gaudy and like nowhere else in the world. Now it seems as if each huge new resort deliberately mimics some other place, wrapping itself in the veneer of an older, more elegant culture: Egypt of the pharaohs, Venice of the doges, Paris, even New York. I wanted to see if Las Vegas had lost its sense of itself.
I also wanted to say goodbye to a classy old hotel on the day in late August when it closed forever. In 1950, the Desert Inn was the fifth property to open on the two-lane highway that would become the Strip. Howard Hughes bought the hotel one New Year's Eve when the management asked him to leave his penthouse to make way for high rollers. 
 Now a more extroverted billionaire, Steve Wynn, will implode the icon and build a towering new Desert Inn on the vast scale of the Aladdin, Bellagio, the Venetian, Paris Las Vegas and Luxor -- massive new resorts borrowing from cultures from all over the world. High rollers are having their day.
I am an indifferent gambler but an enthusiastic tourist with a fondness for camp and glitter. I've always been able to have a fine time in Las Vegas without breaking the bank (mine or the casinos'), and I bet I still could. For this spur-of-the-moment trip, from a Sunday morning to a Tuesday afternoon, I budgeted $300 (without the cost of getting there). I just wanted to explore the hyper new versions of Paris, Venice and a Lake Como villa. I didn't need to stay in one.
Until recently, casino hotels would undercharge for rooms and food, figuring low rates and cheap buffets would keep guests at their slot machines and gambling tables. Calling at the last minute from Tucson, I couldn't find any of those low room rates. In fact, I couldn't find anything under $150. Finally I fell back on advice from an acquaintance who lives in Las Vegas: there's usually a cheap room at the Maxim.
I couldn't find the Maxim in my guidebooks, but the address was on Flamingo Road, just off the Strip and across from Bally's. I called. I could have a double for $59. I booked it. If it had clean sheets, hot water, air-conditioning and enough light to read by, it would be fine for one night.
I didn't want to rent a car, even though a half-dozen national and local firms offered automatic economy cars for daily rates under $20. I tend to be a poor navigator and easily distracted behind the wheel, and Las Vegas Boulevard South -- the Strip -- is 10 lanes wide and lined with world-class diversions. I chose public transport.
On the 15-minute shuttle ride from McCarran International Airport to the Strip ($4), my seat companion mentioned that she would be paying half-price for two days at Bellagio, and her room would be "comped" (complimentary) for two days at the Mirage. On a convention weekend!
"Join the slot clubs," she advised. All the big hotels have some incentive program to encourage bettors to stay. They issue membership cards with a magnetic strip that records either time or money spent gambling there, and your name goes on their mailing list for discount newsletters.
"How much do you actually gamble there?" I asked.
"Oh, I probably play for six or seven hours a day, but not in one place," she said.
"Do you always win?"
"Honey, nobody always wins."
The Maxim looked like a hotel that has seen better days. The casino is gone. Not even a slot machine graces the vast, rather grim expanse before the registration desk. Nevertheless, it seemed to be packing in the tour groups. My room would not be ready before 3 p.m., I was told, so I checked my bag in the luggage room and headed for the glitter.
Aladdin, Las Vegas's newest megaresort, added 2,567 rooms to the city's inventory when it reopened on Aug. 17. On the site of the original Aladdin, which opened in 1966 and was demolished in 1998, spires and onion domes once more speak of a thousand and one nights, but the big hype is about Desert Passage.
This vast mall wraps the entire lower level of the resort. Its roster includes about 130 shops and 20 restaurants scattered along various "trade routes" to mysterious destinations with names like Dome of the Spirits. Casbahs abound. Young women in harem pants perch on silk pillows to offer temporary henna tattoos ($15). At the North African harbor, a 155-foot merchant trader rises and falls on the tide as fog and scattered rain blow through. "Experience retail" is the concept, and it's surreal. Too hungry to endure the long line for the Spice Market buffet in the Aladdin, I headed for Paris, across the street, to look for good food. I found it.
Behind a 50-story (half-size) Eiffel Tower, Paris Las Vegas clusters replicas of the Arc de Triomphe, the Louvre, the Opera, and the Hotel de Ville. Inside, it's the Latin Quarter in the 1920's. The streetscapes are lined with bistros, boulangeries and patisseries, shops with cheeses, sausages, pates and wines. I grazed. A rather large lunch, with two trips to the patisserie, came to $10.99.
FORTIFIED, I wandered into the casino, where I laughed with delight. Three legs of the Eiffel Tower plunge through the 40-foot ceiling, and the Seine wanders through, lined with wrought-iron street lamps and bridged by the lovely Pont Alexandre III. It's all maniacally authentic -- even the rivets in the tower are said to duplicate the originals -- but sublimely irrelevant to the oblivious gamblers.
I snagged another apple tartine ($2.75) and walked back to the Maxim to check in. Despite my misgivings, the room was fine, if characterless. It had a good bed (king size) and met all my other requirements. Phone calls cost $1, however.
Still stuffed with French pastry, I skipped dinner to take in Cirque du Soleil's 7:30 p.m. performance of "Mystere" at Treasure Island. This was my splurge. I got one of the last seats in the house for $75, more than I would have paid to see Steve Lawrence and Eydie Gorme at Caesars Palace ($55), but less than Siegfried & Roy at the Mirage ($95). It was definitely worth it.
After the performance, I found a good place on the plank bridge outside Treasure Island to wait for the sea battle. Every night, at 90-minute intervals, a reproduction of the British frigate Britannia attacks the Hispaniola, a pirate ship plying the blocklong depiction of Robert Louis Stevenson's Buccaneer Bay. Pirates and naval officers exchange cheesy B-movie dialogue and realistic cannon fire, with flaming explosions so fierce I felt the heat on my face. After a lot of good-natured swashbuckling and scary stunt dives, the frigate slowly slips under the waves. Pirates and audience rejoice. It took eight minutes to sink the Britannia and a half-hour for the crowd to disperse. But it was fun and free.
I was tired, but I couldn't stop neon-gazing along the Strip. I watched the volcano erupt at the Mirage and the waters dance from more than 1,200 choreographed fountainheads at Bellagio. Finally I walked back to the Maxim, vowing tomorrow I'd take the bus. With the show ticket, I'd spent about $165.
On Monday morning I moved to La Concha, a funky 50's-style motel right on the Strip next to the Riviera. In the hallway on my floor, the carpet rippled and somebody had systematically added pince-nez and Vandykes to the Restoration-style figures stenciled on the walls, but my $48 room had some nice touches. The king-size bed had an upholstered headboard. White wrought-iron vines surrounded the vanity outside the bathroom and framed a full-length mirror in the bedroom. The frayed carpet had been neatly repaired with duct tape, and local calls were free.
Public buses turned out to be ideal transport for my needs. The No. 301 runs along the Strip regularly. The fare on that route is $2 and transfers are free. So is the entertainment. On my first ride, the driver rapped on the window of a stretch limo that pulled up next to the bus at a light. When the tinted window glided down, the bus driver leaned out: "Do you have any Grey Poupon?"
At the Mirage, the Secret Garden of Siegfried & Roy is a little jewel of a zoo with the white tigers and lions that appear (and disappear) in the illusionists' show. The garden is very small, but the magnificent rare creatures seemed content to wrestle in a desultory fashion and paddle in their pool. Behind the garden at the Dolphin Habitat (included in the $10 admission fee), cackling cetaceans tossed a beach ball back and forth with visitors. The breeding program that produced them at the Mirage is highly successful, but the guide's perky spiel about it struck me as pure Las Vegas. "Nothing in this habitat is natural," she assured us. "The coral reef is entirely artificial." Even the 2.5 million gallons of seawater are man-made. Still, the animals provide a transcendent respite from humanity in this town.
After a quick lunch at the generic casino buffet at the Mirage ($9.95), I crossed the street to the Venetian for a free roulette lesson. Here the landmarks are full-size: the Doges' Palace, the Campanile, the Ca' d'Oro, the Rialto Bridge. At the foot of Piazza San Marco, strapping gondoliers in tight shirts and red bandannas belt "O Sole Mio" as they pole tourists under the Bridge of Sighs ($10 a person for about 15 minutes).
It's another example of crackpot authenticity: The boats were made by the oldest gondola firm in Venice, for a Grand Canal 36 inches deep.
READY for a dose of culture, I headed for the Liberace Museum. (People who want real culture should vacation in the real Venice.) A couple of miles from the Strip on Tropicana Avenue ($1.25 on bus No. 201), the shrine to Mr. Showmanship raises funds for Liberace's scholarship foundation. Exhibits include 14 of his pianos -- a French Pleyel played by Chopin and Liberace's favorite Baldwin concert grand, the one covered with thousands of etched mirror tiles. A row of fabulous glittering vehicles recalls his grand entrances. He would roll onstage in a 1962 Rolls-Royce clad in etched mirror tiles, to match his piano. I coveted that Rolls.
The costumes are equally dazzling. According to the printed guide, seamstresses would wear dark glasses to protect their eyes from the glare of beads and rhinestones on his capes, sewing as many as 100,000 on one garment. One rhinestone rests in a place of honor. Weighing more than 50 pounds, the 115,000-carat Austrian sparkler was a gift from an understandably grateful industry.
This summer the Liberace Museum opened a new gallery for changing exhibitions about the arts and popular culture. It's included in the $6.95 admission. I spent a happy hour there, immersed in the displays and video clips of "Red, Hot & Blue," the Smithsonian's traveling salute to American musicals (which has since departed). There's really nothing like a little Busby Berkeley to top off a lot of Liberace.
I spent the evening downtown, at the sanitized pedestrian mall called the Fremont Street Experience. The highlight was an excellent grilled salmon dinner ($8.95) at the Triple 7 restaurant and brewery at Main Street Station. Including motel, meals, admissions, buses, tips, souvenirs and a couple of microbrews, I'd spent a little over $110 for a day packed with entertainment.
Late Tuesday morning, I took a taxi to Bellagio ($8) and checked my bag at the outdoor luggage kiosk to be collected later, on the way to the airport. Unencumbered, I treated myself to a degenerate breakfast buffet. At $10.95 it is very pricey for a Las Vegas breakfast buffet, but the flatware is heavy, the napkins vast and crisp, and the presentation of dozens of dishes is drop-dead elegant. One guest was actually videotaping the steam tables, particularly such unusual breakfast fare as pork loin with mushrooms and spicy udon noodles with scallops and jellyfish.
I had arranged to meet the free Elvis-a-Rama Museum shuttle, but we never connected and I had to go home without sighting a single Elvis. Even so, I went home reassured. There's no identity crisis in Las Vegas. In its heart of hearts, glittering excess reigns.
 
Bottom line: a can't-lose approach (don't gamble)
Including taxes, tips and miscellaneous expenses, my two-night Las Vegas trip cost $316.24, or $158.12 a night. Round-trip air fare from Tucson, Ariz., on Southwest Airlines (I paid $181, the full fare, because I booked only a day ahead) brought the total to $497.24.
 
Accommodations
Room rates are unpredictable in Las Vegas. Because my trip was organized at the last minute and I arrived during a convention weekend, I wasn't able to find a great room deal, but very good discounts can be found with patience and flexibility, particularly at the casino hotels' Web pages; the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority reservations line, (800) 332-5333; or such discounters as Reservations Plus, (800) 805-9528; Las Vegas Hotel Reservation Services, (800) 728-4106 or at www.
lasvegasreservations.com.
My room at the Maxim Hotel, Post Office Box 1990, (800) 634-6987, fax (702) 735-3252, lacked character but met my basic requirements. The 800-room hotel is at 160 East Flamingo Road. Local phone charges added $6 to my bill for one night: $64.31.
Right on the Strip, the 351-room La Concha Motel, 2955 Las Vegas Boulevard South, (702) 735-1255, fax (702) 369-0862, has the world-weary air one expects in a Las Vegas motel. This room, too, was perfectly adequate, and local calls were free. One night with tax was $52.32.
 
Dining
All-you-can-eat buffets are still good deals, but they tend to all seem the same. The Mirage buffet, 3400 Las Vegas Boulevard, (702) 791-7111, is memorable for its fountains and gardens, its salads, and its bourbon-laced bread pudding. Lunch is $9.95, dinner is $14.95.
At $10.95, the breakfast buffet at Bellagio, 3600 Las Vegas Boulevard, (702) 693-7223, is expensive by Las Vegas standards, but it offers variety, from sweet breakfast pasta to potatoes lyonnaise to the caramelized apples to top off the oatmeal.
Main Street Station's Triple 7 restaurant and brewery, downtown at 200 North Main Street, (702) 387-1896, is a nice change from buffets for about the same price. Dinner specials, including grilled fish, meats, and seafood, cost about $10. The
microbrews cost $2.95 for a 16-ounce glass, or $4.95 for a sampler of 5 ounces of each of the five brews.
The graveyard-shift steak special is another dying tradition. Binion's Horseshoe Coffee Shop, 128 Fremont Street, (702) 382-1600, is hanging on with a worthy $4.99 version (a 10-ounce New York strip steak, baked potato, salad and rolls) served from 11 p.m. until 7 a.m.
 
Activities
On weekdays the Venetian, 3355 Las Vegas Boulevard, (702) 733-5000, offers free lessons in poker, dice, roulette and blackjack. Doves are no longer released at Piazza San Marco.
At Treasure Island, 3300 Las Vegas Boulevard, (702) 894-7111, the first pirate battle of the day takes place at 4 p.m. and is repeated every 90 minutes (last battle at 10 p.m. Sunday to Thursday, 11:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday). Crowds start to gather about a half-hour before. Inside the hotel, the Buccaneer Bay Club and the north end of the Battle Bar have good views of the free skirmish.
The Secret Garden of Siegfried & Roy and Dolphin Habitat, at the Mirage, 3400 Las Vegas Boulevard, (702) 791-7111, are open 11 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Admission: $10. When the garden is closed, on Wednesday, admission to the Dolphin Habitat is $5.
The Liberace Museum, 1775 East Tropicana Avenue, (702) 798-5595, www.liberace.org., is open Monday to Saturday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., and Sunday 1 to 5 p.m. Admission $6.95, seniors and students $4.95, children 12 or younger free.
Cirque du Soleil's "Mystere" is performed Wednesday through Sunday, at 7:30 and 10:30 p.m., at Treasure Island, 3300 Las Vegas Boulevard. With tax, the ticket costs $82.50; (702) 796-9999.
 
Getting Around
The major national car rental companies and several local ones have branches at McCarran International Airport; most charge around $20 a day if you book in advance. Allstate Car Rental, (800) 634-6186, offers some of the best packages.
A trip from the airport to the Strip or downtown costs about $12 to $15 by taxi, $4 on a Bell Trans minibus, (702) 739-7990. Wheelchair-accessible Citizens Area Transit buses, (702) 228-7433, cover the city well. On most routes, the one-way fare is $1.25 (exact change), with free transfers. The No. 301 local and No. 302 express run along the Strip 24 hours a day, $2 each way.
A free monorail connects the MGM Grand to Bally's, with trams linking other various combinations of casino hotels.
 
Information
The Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, (800) 332-5333, www.lasvegas24hours.com.
The Las Vegas Chamber of Commerce, (702) 735-1616, is on the Web at www.lvchamber.com.
The Independent Living Program, (702) 889-4216, offers information on hotels, restaurants, transportation and personal attendants for disabled travelers. JUDITH ANDERSON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A serenade along the Grand Canal in the Venetian. A room at the Maxim. (Photographs by Ron Mesaros for The New York Times)(pg. 35); Acrobats performing at Desert Passage, the mall attached to the Aladdin. Outside the Venetian, a contemporary version of a gondola.; The call of the Strip. Rates at La Concha leave money for other luxuries. Glitter at the Liberace Museum. (Photographs by Ron Mesaros for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); EGYPT (92%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (93%); 

COMPANY: RENT-A-CAR CO INC (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); EGYPT (92%); NEVADA, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); GAMING (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RESORTS (77%); DISTRACTED DRIVING (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN A WYNN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



5 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 2; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2078 words

HEADLINE: What's Entertainment? That Depends ...

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA KUEHL

 BODY:
REMEMBER what fun it was rushing Snowball to the vet after he gulped down a badminton birdie? Hey, you protest, that was not fun. Nevertheless, that's entertainment, according to the United States government.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics, which annually surveys Americans about their spending habits, includes veterinary expenses in its "entertainment" category. Not classified as entertainment: reading, dining out and using a home computer, omissions that might give the bibliophile, the gourmand and the chat-room addict pause. The bureau also leaves out gambling, which some experts say is the most popular outside-the-home recreation in America. 
 The bureau's sometimes curious choices prompt the question: What is entertainment, anyway? And what factors -- genetic, geographic, chronologic, socioeconomic -- determine that some people, like Beth Henderson of Ashford, Conn., meet their entertainment needs through contemplative pursuits like reading and gardening, while others, like Rina Isaac of White Plains, embrace pulse-pounding activities like mountain biking and archery? What impels Dr. Alfred Scherzer of Hampton Bays, N.Y., to travel to Somalia to gaze at maribou storks, or Donald Wayne of Piscataway, N.J., to amass 100,000 postcards, including one made out of kangaroo skin?
Social scientists say the human hunger for entertainment may be as old as society itself. "I don't know that we have any sort of archaeological evidence of entertainment, per se," said Daniel Fessler, an assistant professor of anthropology at the University of California at Los Angeles, whose research fields include evolutionary psychology and psychological anthropology. "But what we do have is the observation that all known human societies have entertainment of some fashion, and that suggests that it's very old indeed."
A society without entertainment "would be a pretty frightening thing," said Frank A. Salamone, a professor of sociology at Iona College in New Rochelle, N.Y., and the author of "Society, Culture, Leisure and Play: An Anthropological Reference" (University Press of America, 2000).
Entertainment "lets us dream," he said.
"It's imagination," he added. "Play at its best gives us a million options."
As a noun, "play" commonly refers to the games of children. Adults, too old to zip into playsuits, instead put on "leisure wear" to "recreate." But whether it's called leisure, recreation or entertainment, when an activity is "nonproductive, in other words, the aim is not a product, the aim is the experience," that's play, and adults need to do it, said John R. Kelly, a sociologist and the author of 11 books about leisure.
"We are working creatures, we are bonding creatures," he said, "and we are playing creatures."
In the New York metropolitan statistical area -- which includes New York City, Westchester, Long Island, most of northern and central New Jersey, and southwestern Connecticut -- households spent an average of $1,835 annually on entertainment in 1997-98, according to the Consumer Expenditure Survey conducted by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
That number, though, is misleadingly low. Besides pet care, the bureau's list of entertainments includes movies and sporting events; hobbies, toys and games; television sets, videos and stereos; and sporting and exercise equipment. But add items like dining out, alcoholic beverages and reading, and the amount jumps to almost $5,200 a year, or more than 10 percent of the average household's pretax income. Add still more -- lottery tickets, Internet access, the incalculable costs of recreational shopping, and major investments, like the room Mr. Wayne added onto his New Jersey home to accommodate his collections -- and entertainment costs can soar.
In some years, Dr. Scherzer, 71, spends more than $5,000 to watch birds in exotic locales. In 35 years as a birder, Dr. Scherzer said, he has logged between 1,500 and 2,000 species. A practicing pediatrician and emeritus professor of pediatrics at Cornell Medical College, he is a co-president of the Moriches Bay Audubon Society, which has more than 750 members and covers a territory extending from Patchogue to the tip of the South Fork.
According to Dr. Kelly, who is a co-author with Rodney B. Warnick of "Recreation Trends and Markets: The 21st Century" (Sagamore, 1999), bird-watching is increasingly popular, especially among older adults, a population that grows with each aging baby boomer. In New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, membership in National Audubon Society chapters has climbed almost 17 percent in the last decade, to nearly 72,000, an Audubon Society spokesman said.
Economics, education, sex, religion, family background and age all influence entertainment choices. Up to 20 percent of Americans have no discretionary income for entertainment, while 10 percent can afford to spend "significant amounts" on fun, according to "Recreation Trends and Markets." Further, some Americans have little discretionary time, Dr. Kelly said, citing people who hold two jobs to support a family, mothers who shoulder a full-time job and take care of their families, too, and workers who may lose hours of recreation time to commuting.
Choices also spring from living in a particular time and place. "What was incredibly amusing in 1890 is now seen to be no longer funny, for the most part," said Dr. Salamone, the Iona professor. "See two minutes of a German film, and you know it's German. Broadly speaking, English jokes aren't funny in the United States, no matter what background people have. Why do the French like Jerry Lewis? I never understood that."
People also choose activities that balance their lives. "If you work in a steel mill all day, you don't rush out to play tennis when you leave the job," Dr. Kelly said. And for reasons that are still little understood, he said, some people are risk takers who like to play on the edge, others are intensely self-protective and need a comfort zone, and the majority fall between the two extremes.
Ms. Isaac, 38, who teaches first graders in Manhattan, said skiing, hiking, biking and archery help keep her balanced. "When I leave the city, I need to revive my soul," she said. "I make sure I am with nature."
The bow and arrow, which she took up three years ago, require a concentration and focus that send her deep into herself. "You only hear your pulse, your heartbeat -- you can feel your sweat," she said. "It's a competition between my physical self and my mind."
Ms. Isaac said one benefit from her archery is a new identity. "People call me Rina the Archer, Pocahontas," she said. "They say, 'The wild woman is here.' People see you on another level: 'Hey, that person shoots, and that's awesome.' "
If archers inspire awe, couch potatoes draw sneers. But watching television remains Americans' prime pastime at night, a Gallup Poll reported in March 1999. Results of another Gallup Poll in January show that 57 percent of Americans watch three or more hours of television a day.
Television delivers story after story, feeding the human need for narrative, which, along with dance, is a universal form of entertainment, said Dr. Fessler of U.C.L.A. Some theorists say that entertainment, like cooking, may be a tradition passed down from ancestral societies. But Dr. Fessler said it may instead be an evolved psychology, a desire that became embedded in the human mind through evolution.
Unfortunately, Dr. Fessler said, evolved psychologies can become insatiable. "If you could afford it, and I guess some people can," he said, "you can just plug yourself into entertainment all of your waking hours and never leave the house."
Meanwhile, more narratives await at the local multiplex. Between 1989 and 1999, the number of movie screens in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut rose 60 percent, to 3,470, according to the National Association of Theater Owners. Box offices nationwide took in $7.49 billion in 1999, and Americans spent an additional $17.36 billion renting and buying movies, according to the Video Software Dealers Association.
Luckily for literacy, the stories on library shelves still beckon. According to "Recreation Trends and Markets," more than 90 million adult Americans read books, and the number is rising. In early September, Ms. Henderson, 57, said she was reading six: a memoir, a biography, a travelogue, two local histories and a Harry Potter. A former teacher and school administrator who is now a sculptor, Ms. Henderson said that she spent $75 to $100 a month on newspapers, magazines and books, and combed the library stacks in Ashford and Mansfield, Conn., for free riches. "One of the things I like about reading is that it really promotes the use of your imagination, a lot more than watching a movie, for example," she said.
In contrast, gambling, which Professors Kelly and Warnick describe as "the largest single 'recreation' activity outside the home," doesn't so much promote imagination as feed off it, as gamblers imagine themselves rich.
Their imaginations were working overtime in 1999 as Americans wagered more than $742 billion, according to an industry analyst, Christiansen Capital Advisors. That's 99 times last year's national movie box-office receipts, and almost triple the amount people wagered in 1989.
In New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, dreamers spent $6.2 billion on lottery tickets in 1998-99, 73 percent more than a decade ago, according to figures provided by state lottery officials. And gamblers wagered $43.5 billion in Atlantic City casinos in 1999, about twice what they spent in 1989, according to New Jersey Casino Control Commission figures.
Gambling creates "a kind of an artificial excitement," Dr. Kelly said.
Gambling choices and styles vary. Some play bingo for fun, others buy lottery tickets out of financial desperation. "That isn't play," said Dr. Kelly. "That's waiting to be struck by lightning."
Gamblers and collectors are both treasure seekers, but collectors rarely go home empty-handed.
There are four clubs in New Jersey for postcard collectors, known as deltiologists, and Mr. Wayne belongs to three of them, including the Central Jersey Deltiological Society, of which he is president. A serious collector since the mid-1960's, Mr. Wayne, 65, said he went "a little berserk" over novelty cards. Besides the kangaroo-skin oddity, he owns cards made of Irish peat, celluloid, aluminum, leather, macerated money and woven silk.
But his acquisitive days are winding down, Mr. Wayne said, because even with the extra room, "the house is full." Still, a collector can dream. At a recent postcard show in Clark, N.J., Mr. Wayne pointed out a man who claimed to own a million cards. "People revere him as one of the icons of the postcard world," Mr. Wayne said. "At least, I do."
Somewhere in the United States is someone who collects just about every kind of object, Dr. Kelly said. Add up all the collections -- stamps, coins, rocks, bones, thimbles, Hummel figurines, comic books, ice cream scoops, barbed wire and everything else -- and "you probably have a fairly significant part of the adult population," he said.
Collectors form groups, attend meetings and publish journals. "The social aspects become very important," Dr. Kelly said.
Mr. Wayne, a retired math teacher who also collects slide rules and books about space, said he couldn't expect people to appreciate the thrill of postcards unless they saw his treasures. Even then they might not understand. Such passions develop over time, and the impulses behind them are often complex.
Although it is easy simply to mock somebody else's idea of fun, the Bureau of Labor Statistics contends that it has valid reasons for each omission from the Consumer Expenditure Survey's entertainment category.
For example, the bureau deems reading more informational than entertaining, said Bill Passero, a senior economist. Dining out is a subcategory under food, and gambling is a miscellaneous expenditure, Mr. Passero said, noting that many people regard it not as entertainment but as an investment with a possible return.
As for pet care, it's been part of entertainment (formerly "recreation") since at least 1950, according to bureau records. Where else would you put it? Mr. Passero wondered.
Mr. Wayne, for one, said the notion of pets as entertainment made sense. He and his wife have two Shetland sheepdogs. "They're a riot," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Felipe Galindo)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY PRESS OF AMERICA INC (52%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STATISTICS (77%); LITERATURE (76%); CHILDREN (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); CHAT ROOMS (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (70%); EXTREME SPORTS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); WRITERS (67%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); ARCHAEOLOGY (65%); ARCHERY (52%); CYCLING (52%); 

PERSON: DON JOHNSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



6 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1427 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/New Jersey;
A Spec Office Builder Near Princeton Thinks Bigger

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

DATELINE: WEST WINDSOR

 BODY:
THIS month backhoes will begin tearing into 17 acres here for an office building that, like others in recent years in the flush office market along the Princeton Route 1 corridor, will be built on speculation.
But the new building, University Square, is unlike the others because of its size. With 316,000 square feet on five floors, it will break from the pattern of low-slung corporate boxes, averaging 100,000 square feet, that line the 20-mile corridor stretching from New Brunswick to Trenton. The developer is the Reckson Associates Realty Corporation, a real estate investment trust based in Melville, on Long Island, with offices in New Jersey. 
 Commercial brokers say an aversion to risk is one reason other developers are not putting up larger buildings. Financing for speculative construction, they add, is still tight and will keep such projects to a modest size.
Moreover, "the bread-and-butter tenants" in the Princeton market need 25,000 square feet and are well served by the smaller buildings, said J. Douglas Petrozzini, a senior vice president at the Edison office of Grubb & Ellis, the commercial real estate services company.
Many larger tenants in the area, he added, typically build their own space or have it built for them. Merrill Lynch is building, in phases over the next year, 1.25 million square feet of office space in eight buildings on some of the 450 acres it owns at Scotch Road and Interstate 95 in Hopewell. The project, which sparked fierce resistance from some local residents, could grow to 3.5 million square feet.
And RCN, a cable company, will soon begin building the first 610,,000-square-foot, four-building phase of its planned 135-acre, 1.5 million-square-foot campus at Princeton Pike and I-295 in Lawrenceville, said Robert T. Morford, a principal at the Garibaldi Group, a real estate services company in Chatham that represented RCN.
Jeffrey Schotz, senior vice president and managing director of Reckson's New Jersey operation, said University Square was designed for tenants who wanted large blocks of space "and until now had limited options." He said his company was financing the $45 million project with internal funds.
University Square is the first building Reckson is constructing in New Jersey since it entered the state in 1997. Since then, the company has acquired land on which it could build some 1.6 million square feet of space, as well as older office buildings it has renovated.
Brokers said the construction of University Square, while unusual, was not surprising. In the last two years, there has been two million square feet of speculative offices built in the Princeton market, according to Cushman & Wakefield, the commercial real estate services company.
AND projects totaling 710,000 more feet are under way or about to start. In addition to University Square, they include a 140,000-square-foot building planned at the Carnegie Center office park in West Windsor. A 70,850-square-foot building is rising and another with 100,000 square feet is planned on land sold to separate developers by Princeton University. The buildings are part of the 2,200-acre Princeton Forrestal Center, which straddles Plainsboro and South Brunswick Townships.
That production pace has some real estate executive concerned about overbuilding. But brokers say that will not occur as long as lenders keep the lid on financing and the state's economy and job growth continue to stoke tenants' demand for space and their desire to be near Princeton University.
"The Princeton market," said David Knights, marketing director at Princeton Forrestal Center, "is supported by three legs: the pharmaceutical, financial services and telecommunication industries. And with the economy the way it is, all three legs are growing -- and aggressively."
With that demand, most of the two million square feet of speculative space built in the last two years has been leased. The corridor's vacancy rate fell to 9.8 percent in the second quarter of this year from 10.4 percent a year earlier, according to Cushman & Wakefield. Average asking prices for prime space remained stable at $28.87 per square foot a year.
The demand is coming mostly from current tenants who are expanding, said Peter W. Hamburger, a senior director at Cushman & Wakefield. "If businesses continue to grow at a modest rate of 3 percent a year," he added, "that will generate a demand for 360,000 square feet a year."
As a result, he said, the market should be able to absorb the next crop of speculative buildings.
And the space RCN and Merrill Lynch will vacate for their new buildings as well, said Mr. Morford of the Garibaldi Group. RCN is said to occupy 100,000 square feet in Carnegie Center
Merrill Lynch is building the Hopewell buildings "to meet our immediate growth needs," said Joseph M. Cohen, a company spokesman. He said 6,000 employees who provided support services for the company's brokerage operations would occupy the buildings.
They will relocate from leased space mostly in central New Jersey, including 250,000 square feet in the Princeton market, Mr. Cohen said, adding that those leases expired in 18 to 36 months. A 1.2 million-square-foot building the company owns in Plainsboro will be retained, he said.
Mr. Schotz, of Reckson, said that University Square, which will rise at the corner of Route 1 and Alexander Road, represented "an opportunity to get in on a fast-growing market." To satisfy what his company believes is tenants' unmet need for large blocks of space, he said, the building's five floors, each with 60,000 square feet, will be marketed to users needing at least half that amount of space.
Though the building could accommodate tenants wanting 5,000 square feet, "that is not our intent right now," Mr. Schotz said. Initially, rents will be $32.75 a square foot, with tenants paying for their own electricity, and will rise during the course of construction to $34.75. Completion is set for the fall of 2001.
Boston Properties expects to start construction by year-end on a 140,000-square foot, five-story speculative building at its 450-acre Carnegie Center office campus. Half of the park's eventual four million square feet is built and leased.
Since the company bought the park in 1998, it has built four more buildings, on speculation or for specific tenants. All 600,000 square feet in those buildings also are leased, keeping the park at full occupancy, said Micky Landis, a vice president and regional manager at Boston Properties.
"We put up one building a year," Mr. Landis said, "But right now. there is more construction in the market and frankly that should concern any developer who has memories of the mid-80's." The question, he said, is "how many other developers will try to take advantage of the market."
STILL, he said, Carnegie Center has the advantage of offering a campus environment. Another factor is that the park's current tenants continue to grow, he said, adding that such tenants filled the previous buildings "and are likely to fill the new one" as well.
Rents at the park are $31 to $36 a square foot, he said, adding that those at the planned building, while not yet set, would be in that range.
In Plainsboro, the Patrinely Group, with offices in Houston and Princeton, last week started construction on a 70,850-square-foot speculative building. It will be the second such building for the company, which in 1998 agreed to buy, in pieces, 100 acres from Princeton University to build the Princeton Corporate Campus, an office campus of up to 1.2 million square feet on both sides of Route 1 in Plainsboro. It is part of the Princeton Forrestal Center.
The first building, with 154,000 square feet, is leased, said Walter F. Thomas, a senior managing director for new development at the Patrinely Group. "The depth and breath of the demand is greater than we anticipated," he said, adding that lease proposals were out for all but 24,000 square feet in the second building. Rents in that building will be $31.50 a square foot, with tenants paying for their own electricity.
The first two buildings will complete development on the southbound side of Route 1 and Mr. Thomas said his company "is pushing forward with dispatch for approvals" for the one million square feet it could build on the north side of the highway.
Five buildings of 160,000 square feet each are envisioned there.. But Mr. Thomas said the plan was flexible, allowing his company to build larger or smaller buildings to meet market demand.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: University Square is to have five floors and 316,000 square feet. (Reckson Associates Realty Corporation)
 
Map of New Jersey highlighting Route 1 corridor

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SLG (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: SL GREEN REALTY CORP (71%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); GRUBB & ELLIS CO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (70%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (70%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (70%); 

PERSON: DAVID DAVIS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



7 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Long Island;
KeySpan Ponders the Future of 500 Riverhead Acres

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
KEYSPAN ENERGY, the giant gas and electric concern formed two years ago by the merger of Brooklyn Union Gas and the Long Island Lighting Company, is preparing to divest itself of more than 500 acres of farmland, woods and Long Island Sound shorefront in the Town of Riverhead, potentially with an eye toward preservation, its officials said.
In an unusual turn for a publicly traded corporation, KeySpan officials said they were looking beyond the land's enormous development potential to explore ways to preserve much if not all of the holding in its current state, provided a method could be found for fair compensation. 
 The property, where Lilco proposed building two nuclear power plants in the 1970's, is among the largest remaining privately owned open expanses on eastern Long Island and would be worth tens of millions of dollars if sold for development. Farmland currently sells for $25,000 an acre in the area, and prime shoreline lots near bluffs on the property's northern boundary, with spectacular views over Long Island Sound, would sell for more than $300,000 an acre, real estate agents said.
The land is currently zoned to allow industrial use, but could also be used for expensive housing, condominiums or a private or public golf course with town permission. But residents of the North Fork of Long Island and all of Suffolk County have repeatedly voted for programs to preserve farms and open space.
Farmland, farm stands and vineyards are also crucial to the traditionally agricultural North Fork's appeal to tourists and weekend visitors, many of whom come from densely suburban western Long Island. Voter-approved land protection programs have been slowed, however, by a lack of willing sellers.
KeySpan said that while no final decisions had been made it was considering a number of preservation approaches for the property, including transfer of development rights to Suffolk County, sale of the land to New York State for a park, and other types of purchase or preservation plans that combined state, county, local and even Federal financing sources.
KeySpan's senior vice president for corporate affairs, David J. Manning, said the challenge for the company was finding harmony with environmental and public interests while protecting shareholders.
"We have been in discussion with local politicians, state officials, community leaders, environmentalists and developers," Mr. Manning said. "There are a number of people who are interested in the potential for the property in all directions." Mr. Manning said that KeySpan considered the site too remote for a power station.
The land is in an agricultural corridor along Sound Avenue in the eastern part of Riverhead. A small portion is within the Town of Southold. Keyspan currently leases 230 acres to two farmers who grow potatoes, corn, squash and other crops, but the leases expire at the end of this year.
The Hallockville Museum Farm and Folklife Center, a not-for-profit historic preservation group, owns eight acres of land and historic buildings contiguous to the KeySpan property. The museum's name is derived from the Hallock family, who were among early English settlers of the North Fork. The Hallock homestead, restored to interpret farm life a century ago, is open to the public and is on the National Register of Historic Places.
KEYSPAN officials said they hoped to make a good impression on Long Islanders by being sensitive to preservation sentiment and the goals of the museum.
"We're just trying to do the right thing," Mr. Manning said.
Company officials inclined toward preservation, however, must contend with possible investor backlash, Mr. Manning said, if KeySpan passes up likely offers from private developers willing to pay large amounts for the property.
But KeySpan officials said they would also risk severe approbation from environmental and civic groups as well as some elected officials if the company took a more conventional path and sold the property to the highest bidder regardless of future use.
Under a takeover plan carried out two years ago, Lilco sold its electric transmission and delivery system to the Long Island Power Authority but retained power plants and other assets, including the Riverhead land, which passed to KeySpan after the merger.
During the 1970's, Lilco had sought federal and state permission to build two nuclear power plants on the property, but a state board rejected the plan in 1980 and said that only a coal-powered generating station would be permitted. The coal-powered station was never built, and the property -- though deeply scarred on a section of its shoreline where another former owner, Levon Corporation, mined large volumes of sand and destroyed coastal bluffs -- has remained undisturbed since then.
As KeySpan edged closer to divesting the property, there were many suggestions about how the company should proceed.
John Eilertsen, the executive director of the Hallockville Museum Farm and Folk Life Center, said the group was requesting that KeySpan donate 50 acres of farmland to the museum to restore the Hallock farmstead to its size of 100 years ago. He said the group wanted the remainder of the farmland preserved in some way and favored public access routes to the Sound.
"With more and more of the farmland disappearing, the land is becoming a greater and rarer asset," Mr. Eilertsen said. "It should be a resource for all of Long Island." The nightmare, he said, would be "an intensive housing development with little or no preservation or another golf course."
In the last five years, several Riverhead farm owners have converted fields into public golf courses. One developer, William Talmage, ignored offers from Suffolk County to acquire an environmentally sensitive wooded area on the Talmage farm and cleared fairways for an 18-hole course on 286 acres of fields, woods and Long Island Sound bluffs shortly after the town board approved the controversial project.
Two environmental groups, the Long Island Pine Barrens Society and the North Fork Environmental Council, are suing the town for allowing the project, but lost a lower court ruling last month.
Preservation groups were eager to avoid a repetition on the KeySpan property. "We have certainly expressed our interest in helping KeySpan," said John Halsey, the president of the Peconic Land Trust, a not-for-profit group that promotes farm and open space preservation on Long Island's East End.
Mr. Halsey said a plan could include limited development on a portion of the property in an area set back from the bluffs but also away from farm fields. "It would also be nice if there was a gift component," Mr. Halsey said. He said such a gift would carry substantial tax benefits for the company.
Others said preservation of all of the nearly last-of-its-kind parcel was warranted. "We have told KeySpan they should make the property available for acquisition in total," said Richard L. Amper Jr., the executive director of the Long Island Pine Barrens Society. "There should be no partial development. We are asking them to do the environmentally correct thing."
Joseph M. Gergela, the executive director of the Long Island Farm Bureau in Riverhead, where the largest remaining farm area on the East End is situated, said the bureau "would love to see if there is some way to save that farmland."
Mr. Gergela said he recommended cutting the farmland into several sections, transferring the development rights to the government and selling the remaining rights to the highest private bidders.
In development rights programs, used by Suffolk County since the late 1970's as a tool to save working farms, the county or another government buys and holds the development rights in perpetuity, lowering the price and taxes for land that remains available only for agricultural uses.
George Gatta, the deputy Suffolk County executive for economic development, said the county was prepared to participate with New York State in a preservation plan for the KeySpan property. Mr. Gatta and state officials said the property had been recommended for a state open-space list, enhancing chances of state financing for a purchase. One possibility would be for some or all of the property to become a state park that provided public access to Long Island Sound. Roads on the property's western and eastern borders connect Sound Avenue to the shoreline.
John Atkins, the president of Save the Sound Inc. of Stamford, Conn., a group leading a coalition promoting federal legislationthat would set up a Long Island Sound reserve, said KeySpan would perform an immense public service by preserving the land and allowing shoreline access.
Senator Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut, the Democratic candidate for vice president, has said he would consider introducing a bill creating the reserve. Mr. Atkins said the bill could lead to federal financing for purchase of lands along Long Island Sound, where public access is limited.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: David J. Manning, second from left, of KeySpan, and Jim Keenaghan, John Eilertsen and James Pim of Hallockville Museum Farm, at site. (Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times)
 
Map of Long Island highlighting KeySpan property

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (98%); NG (LSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (98%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (98%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (98%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (98%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (94%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (94%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DIVESTITURES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); MERGERS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); HISTORY (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); COUNTIES (76%); ZONING (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); HOME PRICES (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); GOLF (72%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (69%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); EXECUTIVES (61%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); 

PERSON: DAVID J MANNING (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



8 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 19; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: OPINION;
The Cost of the American Dream

BYLINE: By CARLOS SANDOVAL; Carlos Sandoval, a lawyer and writer, lives in Amagansett.

 BODY:
BANDAGED and bruised, one of the two Mexican immigrant workers from Farmingville who were recently lured to an abandoned building and then attacked was afraid to show his face. "I guess that's the price you have to pay for the American dream," he was quoted as saying about the attempt to murder him.
As a Hispanic, my stomach heaved: I was angered by his sense of resignation, but I understood it, too. As an American, I was shocked that anyone would think that the risk of murder is the price of entry into my country. As an East Ender, I realized he was right. 
 It's simple economics. Many of us on the East End are feeling flush these days. We want to perfect our American dream, but on the cheap. So we hire immigrant labor to build the decks on which we barbecue, the pools we play in and the family rooms we gather in. We pay them a low wage -- they seem to be satisfied -- and we consider the transaction complete when they disappear.
But it's not. In economic terms we haven't captured all the costs.
In the case of immigrant workers, most communities on the East End have avoided the full costs associated with maintaining this cheap labor pool. We (or our contractors acting as our agents) want the convenience of disposable labor, people we can hire in the morning and push out of sight after a long day's work. The most efficient way of accomplishing this labor transaction is the same way you buy a quart of milk. You go to a market and select the product you want off the shelf.
And so it's evolved that day laborers congregate in certain highly visible spots to form "shape-up lines" and ply their wares -- themselves. But because there is no affordable housing in the communities where the laborers actually work, they generally live and gather in communities far away from those of us who hire them. It's as if you hired a gardener and then forced your brother to take him in. The gardener may pay rent, but your brother is going to resent the intrusion.
This is, in essence, what we have done to working-class hamlets like Farmingville. We have shifted the burden of the housing and dispatching of immigrant labor to them. Formerly homogeneous suburban communities have suddenly seen their lives disrupted so that we can afford to enhance ours.
This is not to excuse the hate unfurled in recent months by groups like the Sachem Quality of Life Organization. These groups argue that the shape-up lines and the immigrants' crowded housing conditions create health and safety hazards. If this were their real concern, these groups would have accepted the proposal to establish a hiring hall, a proposal backed by Robert J. Gaffney, the Suffolk County executive, among others. Instead, these groups have tried to pervert American values in pursuit of their racist ends.
They argue that hiring halls offend their civic sensibilities because they condone the illegality of immigrants who have slipped into this country. Yet in pursuing this argument these groups have nurtured another illegality: attempted murder.
And in a scene more appropriate to a totalitarian regime than to our Rockwellian vision of small-town American democracy, this same element drowned out a Hispanic witness at a town meeting by chanting the Pledge of Allegiance while marching out of the meeting.
Working from fear rather than fact, they cited a nonexistent crime wave in order to convince the Suffolk County Legislature to sue the Immigration and Naturalization Service to initiate a witch hunt in which I, a sixth-generation United States citizen, could easily have been rounded up. To its shame, the Legislature almost bought into the ploy, barely defeating the measure by a lone vote.
The atmosphere of hate that some citizens of Farmingville have fostered cannot be excused or tolerated. But neither can we excuse ourselves from our role in creating it. We have to recognize that Farmingville, and communities like it, are subsidizing our "not in my backyard" views, because they are being forced to house a disproportionate number these workers.
It's not enough to dismiss Farmingville with a liberal "tsk, tsk." We in surrounding communities must absorb the full cost of the labor that makes it possible to build our McMansions. At minimum, this means establishing hiring halls and evenly distributing them among various communities.
But more important, we must put an end to the Nimby complex. We must create affordable housing in communities throughout the East End including -- or perhaps most especially -- in overheated real estate markets like the Hamptons. It also means accepting these workers as neighbors in our communities after the workday ends rather than carting them off as chattel to pens in other communities each night.
The American dream is about more than economic opportunity. It's about creating a textured land in which people of various colors come together as a community. That's our great experiment and strength. While we may need to be ready to die in defense of that dream, we cannot tolerate the murder of anyone seeking to join it merely because he is willing to build our own American dreams at a discount. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FOREIGN LABOR (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); SUBURBS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



9 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 8; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: L.I.@WORK;
The Trials of 'Branding' Locally Grown Produce

BYLINE: By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
WENDING her way through the Hayground Market in Bridgehampton one recent afternoon, Kathi Cavanaugh stopped to scoop string beans into her plastic bag. "I always pick fresh produce here, rather than going to the supermarket," said Ms. Cavanaugh, who lives in Sag Harbor. She was standing beneath a handwritten sign proclaiming "Local String Beans."
Ms. Cavanaugh said she preferred locally grown produce for a couple of reasons. "I believe it's fresher, for one thing," she said. "And it supports the local farmers, which I think is highly important." 
 Finding fresh local produce in Suffolk County is not a demanding chore this time of year. Roadside stands now proudly display the bounty: armies of plump pumpkins, tangles of speckled cranberry beans, waist-high piles of unshucked corn.
Selling locally grown produce is mainly a homespun affair on Long Island, despite the success other areas have had in using regional labels. In New Jersey, where farmers compete directly with Long Island farmers for wholesale customers, the long-running New Jersey Farm Fresh campaign is considered a classic example of agricultural branding, as the field is known. New York State operates its own program, as do many other states and regions.
In Riverhead, a similar campaign was developed 15 years ago by a farmers' organization called the Long Island Farm Bureau. Under the banner of "Grown on Long Island," the campaign was initially greeted with high hopes. A logo was designed -- it was free, the winning entry of a Suffolk County Industrial Development Authority competition -- and signs for farm trucks and stickers for produce boxes were prepared. But the project stalled.
"We haven't gotten much cooperation from supermarkets, who are more interested in buying by the price," said Joseph Gergela III, the group's executive director and a member of an old Riverhead farm family. "And to be fair, our farmers have been reluctant to participate as well for reasons of their own, which are mysterious to me."
The campaign did make some inroads. About 150 signs with the campaign's verdant logo -- the outline of Long Island surrounded by the slogan in curvy letters that seem to be sprouting at the top -- were handed out and actually used, Mr. Gergela said. A number of growers affix labels with the logo on produce boxes, although Mr. Gergela said he did not know how many.
This year, the bureau is trying to revive the campaign. One reason is farmland preservation. The thought is that if farmers are prospering, they will be less likely to sell their land to developers. Progress in establishing a local farmers' market, a quixotic dream of long standing that finally received start-up money from the State Legislature last year, is another.
"The campaign is an effort to give a regional identity to the produce grown on Long Island," said Lyle Wells, a Riverhead farmer and longtime Farm Bureau member. Drawing on a $70,000 promotion budget, up more than 40 percent over 1999, Mr. Gergela has attended about a dozen local trade shows this year, double the number he went to last year. The money comes from the bureau, whose 5,700 members pay dues of $80 a year.
While Suffolk County farmers -- as individuals -- may appreciate the marketing power of the word "local," they have by and large paid only lip service to the campaign. One reason why they are lukewarm is that roadside selling is often more profitable. To sell a "Grown on Long Island" deal to supermarkets, "we have to lock into prices and volume, and not everybody wants to do that," said Phil Schmitt, a fifth-generation lettuce grower in Riverhead.
Another stumbling block has been the issue of quality standards. No wilted green beans, no bruised zucchini, no black patches on the cauliflower. Supermarket buyers enforce those standards; roadside customers may overlook a few imperfections.
Another problem is economic. Establishing a serious marketing campaign is going to cost quite a bit more than $70,000, and absent government largess, the money will need to come out of members' pockets. "I don't know that they'll be willing to support that," Mr. Gergela said.
Another issue is marketplace economics -- read: retail consolidation. Supermarket produce buyers, never the most romantic of souls, have become even less susceptible to regional appeals. "When Waldbaum's was a Long Island store, we could go to the warehouse and sell directly to them," Mr. Schmitt said. "We sold every day to them for 40 years. When they sold the store to A.&P., everything changed. The A.&P. buyers didn't care if we came from Long Island or Timbuktu. Every big store's the same; they buy on price."
Still, people see the television commercials venerating produce from New Jersey -- they appear on "Good Morning America," right after Martha Stewart, for goodness' sake -- and may well wonder why Grown on Long Island remains a struggling seedling. The campaign has its critics, some of whom say it fails to establish a strong emotional connection between consumers and Long Island produce.
Joseph Friedman, a senior partner in Friedman, Ellis, Nielsen & Rogan, a Hauppauge firm that specializes in marketing and branding, contends that the campaign should be redesigned. "Freshness means so much to people when it comes to produce, yet the campaign doesn't seem to get that message across," said Mr. Friedman,whose client roster includes Galluccio Estate Vineyards in Cutchogue. "The region has panache - -- its popularity is growing in leaps and bounds. The farmers have to make clear in the campaign that local equals fresh."
How could they do that? "They could," he said, "hire me."
Another branding consultant, Peggy Ehlers of Riverhead, said she feels "enormous frustration" at the campaign's pace. "Look at Napa Valley," she said and went on to describe that California landmark northeast of San Francisco as an agricultural marketing benchmark. "I happen to think this region actually has more going for it than Napa Valley, but we aren't anywhere near them in branding," she said.
The problem, in her view, is that the Farm Bureau's campaign misses the agri-tourism boat. "People are looking for freshness, of course, but even more they're looking for something emotional," she said. "They want a connection to the land, to the farmers, to the heritage. Grown on Long Island doesn't work because it just doesn't tap into the emotional reasons people buy produce."
Some 18 million people live within a day's trip of Riverhead, she said. Reaching only a fraction of those people could create a market for local farmers and preserve the region's farmland from development.
"We need to connect the various industries that are dependent on agri-tourism," she said. "There are all these cottage industries, bed-and-breakfast accommodations and, of course, the vineyards. They're all part of the visitor's experience, but they've been left out of the picture here."
Inclusiveness and outreach have not been campaign hallmarks, it seems. "Grown on Long Island?" said Harold Watts, the Long Island Wine Council's president. "Haven't heard anything about that."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Farmers are hoping to revive a campaign encouraging Long Islanders to buy locally grown produce from growers like Lyle Wells, owner of Wells Farmstand in Aquebogue. (Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MALAYSIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE BHD (54%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (75%); FAMILY FARMS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (65%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH GERGELA III (78%); KATHI CAVANAUGH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



10 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 4; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1520 words

HEADLINE: LONG ISLAND JOURNAL;
Shredding the Concept of 'Deadbeat Dads'

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER; E-mail: lijournal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
PAY, pay, pay. That's what divorced fathers are forced to do, said Sari Friedman, a matrimonial lawyer in Garden City with a mostly male clientele. Even divorced fathers who are nurturing, devoted and involved with their children's lives. They, too, are sometimes treated like wallets.
Just ask Kasey Blake, a stay-at-home mom from Setauket. Mrs. Blake does not think she's a victim. She's just a second wife. 
 Mrs. Blake 39, has been married to Kevin Blake, 39, an office manager, for 10 years. They have a 6-year-old son. Mr. Blake also has a 13-year-old daughter from his first marriage. He dotes on both his children. But his ex-wife, who has remarried, has custody of their daughter.
Mr. Blake says he has always paid his child support on time. His daughter stays with him on alternate weekends, and he has never canceled a visit. Mrs. Blake said she loves her stepdaughter as her own. Yet there is friction. Demands concerning visitation. Not letting Mr. Blake see the girl. Requests for more money.
"It's like a wound that never heals for anybody," Mrs. Blake said. "It's always there and we are married a long time. It shouldn't be like that, especially when you are doing the right thing with the kid. You love the kid. You embrace her in the family, you pay the child support. You are there all the time to be with her. What is the problem? It's such an adversarial thing. People are so locked in anger and it really hurts the kids so badly. It's like an open wound."
Mrs. Blake said that many first wives use family court for revenge, as a tool against their ex-spouse, especially if he is happy with someone else and getting on with his life, just to keep making trouble. "To me, if someone is paying their child support and visiting the child, what else is there to do?" she said.
Surfing the Web, Mrs. Blake found other second wives and stepmothers struggling with the same issues. To empower blended families, find peaceful solutions to the anger and bickering, put the children first and improve the image of divorced dads, Mrs. Blake started an organization, Women for Fatherhood. She brought in Ms. Friedman, 43, her husband's lawyer, a staunch advocate for divorced fathers and general counsel to the Fathers Rights Association of New York and the Fathers Rights Association of Long Island, to help.
"People are so keyed into believing fathers are these huge villains," Mrs. Blake said. "What happens to all the guys that are good guys? What happens to all the guys who have other families? The system was designed to try and protect people but in the process other people are getting hurt."
Over the past three years, membership in Women for Fatherhood has grown to 1,000. There are chapters in North Carolina, Maryland and Ohio, bulletin boards and links to resources on the organization's Web site, www.women4fatherhood.org. The first live meeting of the flagship Long Island chapter will be held on Thursday at 7 p.m. at the Emma Clark Library in Setauket.
"Because so many people have this perception about fathers, it's always assumed that because my husband is a non-custodial father that he's bad," Mrs. Blake said, asserting that the moniker "deadbeat dad" need not always apply. "I felt that there was a skew in the public perception of fathers and a total lack of regard for subsequent children from second marriages."
Part of the problem, Ms. Friedman said, is that even though 50 percent of marriages end in divorce, unless it is arranged privately out of court, joint custody is not an option under New York State law.
"This concept that only women know how to be nurturing and its something that's biologically instilled in you is just incorrect," said Ms. Friedman, 43, of Oyster Bay Cove, who has been married for 20 years and considers her husband, Ken, an actuary, a co-parent to their two daughters. "Fathers can be as nurturing as mothers if they are allowed to be," she added. "It's what society allows them to do. The concept of what a mother is and what a father is from years past, from the 1960's when we had shows like 'Ozzie and Harriet' telling us that Ozzie went to work and Harriet stayed home; it's just not reflective of society today."
Ms. Friedman contended that fathers are often treated as second-class citizens by the courts when it comes to rights and decision-making with respect to their children. If they lose their jobs or have been downgraded, they still have to pay. Paralegal support systems and resources offered to divorcing mothers are not readily available to men. And she claimed that statistics show that non-custodial mothers are more often delinquent in child support payments than fathers, yet don't seem to get a bad rap.
Mr. Blake said he had to go to court to stop his ex-wife from moving out of state. She took him to court to raise support payments. But his ex is working, her new husband is working and as custodial parents, they get the tax write-off for their dependent.
"The means for the children of her family are greater than the means for your family," Mr. Blake said, begrudging the system, not his child. "I have a responsibility to help support and raise my daughter, but she has all the designer clothes and she is not lacking anything whereas I can't provide that for my son who lives with me. I'm glad she has all those things, but the economic status of the two is not the same."
Years ago, Mrs. Blake recalled, when she griped about another increase in the child support her husband would have to pay, a lawyer told her that if she wanted her own child to be considered, she should divorce her husband.
While society as a whole has shifted, Mrs. Blake added, in the divorce arena, women are pretending it hasn't. "We want equal pay and we want to be on all equal terms with them on everything else but not on this," she said. "We still want the men to pick up the slack, leave the child rearing to us and give us the money."
 
Poetry for Sale
When it comes to hawking her poetry, Carolyn L. Miles of Huntington Station can be relentless. At the gas station and the Laundromat, she hands out her "Poems on the Go" business card. When she takes her two daughters to the doctor, she pitches her verse. And she has knocked on doors from Port Washington to Riverhead selling customized rhymes.
"I can put other people's happiness and sadness into words," said Ms. Miles, 41, who describes herself as a former crack and cocaine addict and recovering alcoholic who was on welfare for nearly 12 years.
"Every time I write a poem it eases the pain of someone else. It brings me peace to shed light on someone's else's pain."
Determined to write her way off welfare, Ms. Miles turned to written-to-order sentimental verse three years ago. Since then, she has composed 142 poems.
Ms. Miles's poems are published in the Women's Center of Huntington newsletter every other month. One was included in the latest issue of Creations magazine, published every two months in Sea Cliff; two were included in books published by the National Library of Poetry in Owings Mills, Md.; and others have appeared in three anthologies.
This is an excerpt from her poem "Out of Sadness":
She climbed a mountain of broken childhood memories
Searching for her emerald dreams
Stopping now and then to mend
Stones of sadness that did descend
Under a blanket of snow
White diamonds of hope
That once lay silent
Came to life
Crystal tears of children
Rested upon golden leaves
Of make believe
Ms. Miles hopes to be able to write full time someday, but in the meantime, she works as an electrical inspector at Comtech PST in Melville.
Ms. Miles's inspirational verses, printed on scrolls and tied with red bows, have been sold to 22 Long Island businesses, including delis, bagel shops, pet shops, banks and gas stations, where they are handed out instead of calendars.
But her forte is custom poetry. "You can't go into Hallmark and say, 'I just lost my son.' You can't go into Hallmark and say, 'I love my mother so much,' " Ms. Miles said.
So she listens to the tales people tell her, then writes odes to their estranged or deceased children, memorials to their parents, in-laws and beloved pets. Framed, her customized verse runs $80; laminated memorials to pets are $85. In bulk, 100 unframed copies run $70.
As a child, Ms. Miles said, she was sexually abused and shuffled around among aunts and uncles. By age 22, she was addicted to drugs and alcohol, she said. Through the ups and downs over the past 17 years, she has worked in electronics, been counseled at Seafield Alcoholism Treatment Center in Melville and lived at Haven House, a shelter in Huntington.
"My life growing up was sad," she said. "I had no friends, no one to talk to. I used to go into a corner and write all the time."
Recently, Ms. Miles was able to move into a two-bedroom apartment. And she is selling her poetry at local craft fairs. "Poetry fills in the blanks for the words that don't get said from parent to child," she said. "People keep telling me I have a gift. Everything I write just hits home."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sari Friedman, left, a matrimonial lawyer, confers with Kasey Blake, the founder of Women for Fatherhood. (Phil Marino for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (65%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: FATHERS RIGHTS ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (65%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MARRIAGE (90%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (90%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); FAMILY LAW (90%); STEPPARENTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); PARENTING (78%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (77%); LAWYERS (74%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); FAMILY COURTS (73%); 

PERSON: KASEY BLAKE (95%); SARI FRIEDMAN (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



11 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
Delayed? Take Out Frustration at the Airport Gym

BYLINE: By LAURA KOSS-FEDER

 BODY:
LUCKY GOLD, who makes 30 or more business trips a year, says that being able to work out using a treadmill and free weights while on the road is crucial to his well-being.
So when Mr. Gold's job as senior vice president for business development at the Marvin Group, an aerospace company in Inglewood, Calif., takes him to Boston, as it does at least once a month, he doesn't race out of Logan International Airport the minute he arrives. Instead, he stops for an hour or so at a health club on the airport grounds, at the Hilton Boston Logan Airport hotel. Sometimes he even catches an earlier flight than necessary, to allow time for exercise before his meetings in the city. 
 "Having this facility right at the airport is so handy," Mr. Gold said. "Working out helps me stay mentally fit and better prepared for any meeting I'm going to, or any presentation that I'm making. And if I wind up getting delayed at the airport for any period of time, then the health club becomes even more important."
As the air travel system becomes ever more congested and prone to delays, airports are adding ground services to meet the needs of business travelers or to simply help them pass the extra time. These include more stores and restaurants, but also creature comforts like gyms and health clubs. Some, like the one that Mr. Gold frequents in Boston, are in airport hotels; others are in the terminal itself or in freestanding facilities on airport property.
"Nobody looks forward to a three- or four-hour layover, but it is a major stress reliever for business travelers to do a little shopping or get a quick workout while they're waiting at the airport," said Randy Petersen, publisher of Inside Flyer, a magazine for frequent travelers. Mr. Petersen himself expects to spend 200 days on the road this year for business.
Airlines depend on business travelers -- who fly more often and pay much higher fares than tourists -- for 46 percent of their revenue, according to the National Business Travel Association, which represents corporate travel managers. Airport authorities and airlines alike have an economic stake in making airports as appealing as possible to these road warriors.
Of course, many harried business travelers, when faced with a long delay or layover, are not looking for any distractions, just a quiet spot to catch up on work or reading. "There are those times when I just want to return a few calls and look over some materials before a meeting while waiting at the airport," said Ira Birns, treasurer of Arrow Electronics, a components distributor in Melville, N.Y., who travels about 25 times a year for his job.
But for those who do want a break from the laptop and the cell phone, a growing number of airports are helping to soothe frazzled nerves by offering on-site gyms, like the Airport Fitness Center at Pittsburgh International Airport. Mark Knight, regional director of BAA USA, which operates shopping and other concessions at the airport, said the center included exercise equipment, showers and sauna, and had workout clothing available for sale or rent. A single day's visit costs $9.99; a one-year membership is $420.
In March, McCarran International Airport in Las Vegas added a branch of the 24-Hour Fitness health club chain, the chain's first at an airport. The club offers aerobics classes in addition to the usual exercise facilities, and employs a sports nutritionist who will pack healthy snacks for business travelers to take along on flights.
Airport hotels are also trying to tap into the growing pool of the stranded, by marketing their facilities to airport passengers beyond their regular guests. Like its sister hotel in Boston, the Hilton Chicago O'Hare Airport regularly distributes fliers at information booths throughout the airport encouraging business travelers to buy $10 daily passes to its health club, which includes a pool, whirlpool, exercise machines, sauna and showers, according to the club's manager, Steven Andos. Tanning beds and a personal trainer are also available.
About 100 of the 800 people who use the health club on a typical day are not hotel guests, Mr. Andos said, and roughly 15 percent of the 500 regular members are travelers who pass through O'Hare regularly without staying at the hotel. The club at the Boston hotel, which charges $9 to $15 for a day, gets about 20 percent of its traffic from nonguests.
"Some of these people don't even mind that much being in the airport for a few hours between flights, since they know they can have a good workout, take a shower and leave feeling refreshed," Mr. Andos said.
A chance to work up a sweat is not the only amenity that airports, big and small, are offering to between-planes travelers. T. F. Green Airport in Providence, R.I., has just 22 gates in its terminal, but passengers can get a 15-minute massage there for $15. Last month, the airport added express manicure and pedicure service.
The massage service at Nashville International Airport proved a godsend for Jerry Daly, who owns Daly Gray, a public relations firm in Herndon, Va., and who threw out his back on a recent trip.
"Seeing those massage chairs was like finding an oasis in the desert," said Mr. Daly, who paid $15 for a 15-minute massage just before heading home from a business trip. "I was in so much pain, and this made me feel somewhat better. This is a great service to have at an airport."
Other airports, like Orlando International, have in-terminal salons where travelers can get haircuts, massages or manicures.
And the number and range of retail stores and restaurants in airports growing, too: In the Airmall at Pittsburgh International, many of the 105 stores are specifically aimed at business travelers, including a Staples office products outlet. "As many as 10 percent of business travelers we've surveyed have said that they will purposely try to connect through Pittsburgh rather than somewhere else, just to use our shops and services," Mr. Knight said.
For what ails some travelers, though, exercise or pampering or shopping may not be enough. Kennedy International in New York, for example, provides services for which there is no substitute. The airport's chapel offers a setting for quiet prayer and a chance to speak with a priest, minister or rabbi. And when the pain gets really bad, there is an on-site emergency dentist.
 
Finding Treadmills In the Terminals
IT is not always easy to know in advance if an airport you will be visiting offers a health club or other services.
Most airports have Web sites, but they vary greatly in content and organization; some offer extensive details about services and concessions, while others offer little or none. Facilities at airport hotels are generally not included on airport Web sites, though many hotels have their own sites.
A good source is the airport's information desk, which generally can be reached by telephone, or its administration office. Travel agents and corporate travel planners may also be familiar with specific airports; many customer-service representatives of airlines can answer questions about their hub airports, and have the advantage of being reachable most hours of the day.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard Laninfa works out at the Pittsburgh airport gym, where a day visit costs $9.99.; Gyms are among new amenities at major airports. In Pittsburgh, the Airport Fitness Center offers equipment, showers and sauna. (Photographs by Gary Tramontina for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ARW (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423690 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (50%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (50%); SIC5065 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT (50%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ARROW ELECTRONICS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AIRPORTS (92%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); EXECUTIVES (77%); AIRPORT OPERATION (75%); RESTAURANTS (74%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (72%); CIVIL AVIATION (71%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (70%); RETAILERS (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: STEVEN ANDOS (62%); RANDY PETERSEN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



12 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 8; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY & CO.;
The Selling of New Jersey, and Its Difficulties

BYLINE: By ANITA DENNIS

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK

 BODY:
The inflatable rabbit robot cruised the aisles at the Hyatt Regency playing an electronic version of "It's A Small World."
Unfortunately for the visitors, the furry bundle of electrons did not have much trouble negotiating its way around the smattering of people in the exhibition area. 
 For three days last month, a delegation of 150 Chinese businesspeople from 52 companies came to New Jersey to try to raise interest among New Jersey companies in trade and investment opportunities in Zhejiang Province.
"Mainly they are looking for guangxi -- relationship building," said Albert Chu, a consultant from Randolph who coordinated the China Zheijiang 2000 Economic and Trade Fair, held at the Hyatt Regency.
So far, Mr. Chu said, textiles and garments had been the province's most successful export items. And indeed, booths at the fair were splashed with silks and other fabrics as well as ready-to-wear clothing. He noted that in the past, businesses in the province had supplied such American manufacturers as Ann Taylor and Liz Claiborne. Other exhibits touted small electronics items, appliances, tea, Christmas lights, biodegradable food containers and toys.
Gao Yuzhi, vice director general of the Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation Bureau of Zheijiang Province, said through a translator: "We came not only to sell. We have over 100 investment projects that are looking for investors," particularly in the pharmaceutical, chemical and health-care industries.
For the past several years, the province -- which has a population of more than 40 million -- had exhibited at the Jacob Javits Convention Center in Manhattan, and on this day the Chinese seemed a bit stunned by the difference between the two locations.
"We're happy with the reception we've received in New Jersey," Wang Huifen, an exhibitor, said through a translator. "But we would have preferred seeing more people here." About 300 came the first day, but traffic slowed to a trickle on the second and third days, and walking into the Hyatt seemed like entering a hotel in Beijing, since Asians far outnumbered Americans.
Despite its disappointment at the small turnout, the delegation, which met with Governor Whitman during its stay, was determined to pursue trade with New Jersey because of the state's economic influence.
New Jersey has the eighth largest economy in the country, and a gross state product of $327 billion, the governor's office said. If it were a country, New Jersey would have the 16th-largest economy in the world.
In addition, the Chinese province has a long relationship with the state and with Union County. Zheijiang and New Jersey are sister states, and Wenzhou, another city in the province, has been a sister city with Union County for the past 19 years -- though there has been little trade between them. Mr. Chou said Chinese officials had hoped to hold the fair in Union County, but they were unable to find a place that would accommodate the delegation.
To be sure, many Chinese provinces have trade fairs in the United States. "It is one of the ways to promote Chinese manufacturers and products," said Zhang Jie, third secretary of the commercial office of the Chinese Embassy in Washington. "It enhances the friendly exchange between the United States and the provinces and helps to publicize Chinese products."
As for Zheijiang, Ms. Gao said her province and New Jersey had much in common. Like New Jersey, Zheijiang is neighbors with a large and influential city -- its main city, Hangzhou, is about 100 miles from Shanghai. The province's economy is ranked fourth in China, Ms. Gao said. The United States is the province's top exporter, buying $2.4 billion in products last year, or nearly 19 percent of its total export volume. In turn, Zheijiang bought $579 million in goods from the United States last year. The delegation listed General Electric, Motorola, Pepsi and Merck among the companies that have done business in the province.
When it comes to business, however, the differences between the two cultures remain significant, said Mr. Chu, who is involved in training efforts in China, directed by Kean University under the sponsorship of Union County.
"They need help not only with language, but also with professional and management skills" for business and government officials, Mr. Chu said.
Still, Ms. Gao of the trade bureau said that economic reforms under way would certainly help sharpen her nation's business acumen because the Chinese now have the money to pay for training. Moreover, she said, China's recent entry into the World Trade Organization would accelerate the pace of business modernization.
"One point of this visit is to expose people to America," Mr. Chu said. "Many of these people have never been out of the country before, and don't know what to expect." He said the visitors needed to learn more about Westerners, even seemingly small details like the fact that smoking is far less acceptable here than in China.
While some companies at the fair were government-owned, there was also a mix of privately held businesses as well as several joint ventures. Provincial officials said they hoped that fairs like this one would spawn new companies.
Ms. Gao said she and her colleagues were determined to return to New Jersey. "Through this exchange, both sides can win," she said. "We have had good meetings with the New Jersey governor and with New Jersey businesses." Looking around the near-empty lobby, she added, "But it is far from New York."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Toasting the China Zheijiang 2000 Economic and Trade Fair, which was held last month at the Hyatt regency in New Brunswick are, from left: Zhon Shan, a provincial trade official; Cai Shin, a foreign affairs official from Zheijiang; Charles E. Hance, the head of the New Jersey Commerce and Economic Growth Commission, and Freeholder Daniel P. Sullivan of Union County. (Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (95%); CANADA (72%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (73%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (72%); GUANGXI, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: LIZ CLAIBORNE ACCESSORIES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (95%); CANADA (72%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (73%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (72%); GUANGXI, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TRADE SHOWS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); FABRICS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); TEXTILES (74%); READY TO WEAR (74%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (73%); FASHION DESIGNERS (73%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); CITY LIFE (66%); GOVERNORS (65%); CITIES (60%); BIODEGRADABLE PACKAGING (52%); CHRISTMAS (52%); HEALTH CARE (50%); 

PERSON: ELISABETH 'LIZ' CLAIBORNE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



13 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2475 words

HEADLINE: Location, Location, Commutation

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
ABOUT the time Lisa and Michael Gallo began thinking seriously about starting a family, they also thought about moving to the suburbs from their rental apartment on the Upper West Side. Since both worked for securities firms in Manhattan, they were looking not only for an affordable house in an attractive community but also for a convenient commute.
They found what they were looking for in Summit, N.J., an upscale residential city 25 miles from midtown Manhattan. That was four years ago, in October 1996 -- four months after New Jersey Transit inaugurated express service from Summit directly into Penn Station, instead of ending in Hoboken, where Manhattan-bound passengers had to change to PATH trains. 
 That new service, Midtown Direct, lopped about 20 minutes off the previous 70-minute trip from Summit. The round-trip saving, 40 minutes a day, has made a big difference to the Gallos.
"I don't think we would have moved here if it wasn't for Midtown Direct," said Mrs. Gallo, who commuted for two years before their twin sons arrived 16 months ago.
The Gallos were more or less prepared for sticker shock when they decided to move to Summit, a six-square-mile community where a single-family house costs an average of $645,000 and some houses sell for seven figures, according to Lois Schneider Realtor.
"We knew they weren't giving houses away in Summit before Midtown Direct arrived," Mrs. Gallo said, "so we knew we were going to have to pay extra once the service came in here."
Lois Schneider, the head of the realty firm that bears her name, said it is hard to quantify the impact of improved transportation on real estate, especially in a booming housing market. But she estimated that Midtown Direct by itself had raised housing prices 15 to 20 percent. In a town that has long been a magnet for commuters to Manhattan, "Midtown Direct increased the pool of prospective buyers," she said, "and when that happens, it pushes prices up."
It is not only upscale suburban communities that experience rises in real estate prices when commuting is made more convenient. The same phenomenon is at work in Bayonne, N.J., a working-class city of more than 60,000, where New Jersey Transit's Hudson-Bergen Light Rail service began last April.
Cathy and Kevin Ryan, a couple in their 30's from Bayonne, had been commuting by car and bus the past two years -- Mrs. Ryan to her job in Jersey City as a systems administrator at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, her husband to Weehawken, where he works as a tunnel and bridge agent for the Port Authority.
"But I started taking the Light Rail this spring," Mrs. Ryan said, "and I was so satisfied with the commute that we bought a two-family, four-story house on the east side, a block from the station."
Between New York Bay and Newark Bay, Bayonne is only the briefest of flights from Jersey City as the gull flies. But before the Light Rail service began, Mrs. Ryan's drive would sometimes take two hours each way, depending on traffic and weather. By train it now usually takes no more than 20 minutes. And when the rail service is extended to Weehawken, as intended, Mr. Ryan will switch from commuting by car to commuting by rail.
In the six months since the opening of the nine-mile Light Rail between Bayonne and Jersey City, a line that eventually will be extended 11 more miles to Ridgefield, the price of houses in Bayonne has risen at least 10 percent, said Rosemary Sugrue, a broker with Century 21 McGeehan & Pineiro in Bayonne.
"In the 16 years I've been doing this, I hardly ever had anybody ask to buy on the east side of town, because the west side is near the bay and the Hudson County Park," Ms. Sugrue said. "But since the light rail came in, we've gotten a lot of requests to buy on the east side," where the station is. "I just sold a two-family house there for $240,000," she added.
Although Mrs. Ryan declined to give the price of the house that she and her husband are in contract to buy, she said similar houses in the neighborhood sell in the $200,000-plus range. A friend three blocks away is asking $279,000 for a one-family house with a deck, pool and sauna, and Mrs. Ryan has little doubt she will get it. "Property prices have gone up ever since the Light Rail came in," she said, "because more people are wanting to live in Bayonne."
In the last two years, real estate prices have risen throughout New Jersey, said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. And while it is difficult to untangle precisely the impact of transportation on real estate, Dr. Hughes said that for a year or two before Midtown Direct started, price increases for real estate in the string of suburbs served by Midtown Direct outstripped those in New Jersey communities elsewhere.
Eugene Spruck, chief economist for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, said the strong job growth in recent years in the 17-county New York City metropolitan region (190,300 new jobs last year alone) had obviously had a significant impact on real estate. "Just think what it means for the real estate market with a lot of people with newfound wealth," he said. "And shortly after Midtown Direct was initiated, I'd hear all this talk about how hot the real estate market was in those towns."
The same is true along the Hudson River waterfront, where, as in Bayonne, property values are rising along the Hudson-Bergen Light Rail route. And the pattern is likely to be repeated elsewhere in the metropolitan area where rail service is being upgraded.
ONE such project is the Montclair Connection, which is expected to open next year and which will link the Montclair and Boonton lines into a single line and will for the first time provide direct service to midtown Manhattan. The new service is expected to attract an estimated 1,800 new riders a day, for a total of 2,600 riders a day traveling to New York in 2005.
An even bigger transformation will begin in 2002, when the $448 million Secaucus Transfer rail station will start operating. It will link 11 of New Jersey's 12 commuter rail lines, allowing passengers to transfer to trains providing service directly to Penn Station. By 2010, the transfer point is expected to serve more than 16,000 riders a day, nearly 14,000 of whom are expected to be new to the railroad, many having switched from commuting by bus or car. By bypassing Hoboken, the commuters currently bound for mid-Manhattan from northern New Jersey and from Orange and Rockland counties in New York will save an estimated 30 minutes round trip.
For many people, 30 fewer minutes spent commuting is a huge plus. And for many parents of young children, that extra time is golden. When Sean and Sue Leonard, whose daughter, Megan, is 3, decided to move from Westport, Conn., they looked in New Jersey. "We specifically looked for places where I could commute directly into Manhattan without changing trains," said Mr. Leonard, a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers. "And it's close to my family in Philadelphia."
So this June the Leonards bought a four-bedroom house on half an acre in Chatham Township, one stop west of Summit. The commute takes about 45 minutes on the express train, Mr. Leonard said, and the local train takes a few minutes more. And he is in his midtown office after a 15 minute walk from Penn Station.
"If you get on a good transportation route, you know you're going to pay a premium," Mr. Leonard said. "And the closer in you get, the more expensive the real estate."
It is hardly surprising that commuters who can afford it willingly pay extra to avoid traffic jams and inconvenience. Maury N. Klein, a professor of history at the University of Rhode Island and the author of a two-volume account of the Union Pacific railroad, recalled that Jay Gould, the financier and railroad titan, commuted to Wall Street by yacht from Lyndhurst, his estate in Westchester County. "He found it a very pleasant way to get to work," Professor Klein said. About that time, in the late 19th century, many people, including those of modest means, were looking for convenient ways to get to work.
In "Crabgrass Frontier: The Suburbanization of the United States" (Oxford University Press, 1985), the historian Kenneth T. Jackson writes that it was the rail lines to Westchester County in the 19th century that enabled the nation's first large suburban area to develop. Around the turn of the century, "Hundreds of trains from northern and eastern New Jersey poured into Hoboken every morning," he said, "discharging passengers who immediately embarked on the 10-minute ferry ride to Manhattan."
Professor Klein added: "In the 1880's, cities grew around streetcar lines instead of the railroads, making it easy to commute to the city but not having to live there. Then the advent of the auto created new kinds of suburbs, especially after World War II. And that allowed you to live away from the railroad but drive to the station to commute back to the city."
The attractiveness of convenient rail service continues. Consider the recent extension of Metro-North's upper Harlem Line from Dover Plains, N.Y, to the Tenmile River and Wassaic stations in Amenia, a town of about 6,000 in eastern Dutchess County, a 90-mile drive from Manhattan.
In service only since July 9, and just under six miles in length, the extension has already had an impact on commuting patterns of a few people who make the two-hour-plus trip to Manhattan several times a week. It has shortened the drive time to the railroad station for these commuters and enables them to board (and park) at a station in Amenia, rather than jockey for a parking space at the Dover Plains station farther down the line. If the past is any guide, those improvements are almost certain to make a difference in real estate values in the area, including property in nearby northwestern Connecticut. "Two years ago raw land surrounding Amenia sold for $6,000 an acre, but as the line was extended, it's now $10,000," said Elyse Harney, who owns Elyse Harney Real Estate in Salisbury, a Connecticut town 15 to 20 minutes from the Wassaic railroad station.
Even with its orchards, dairy farms and other wide open spaces, eastern Dutchess County's population has been growing slowly but steadily almost since 1984. That year, Metro-North completed its $75 million electrification of the railroad between North White Plains, in Westchester County, and Brewster, in Putnam County.
Metro-North officials said recently that they had no plans to extend the Harlem Line beyond Amenia (which, incidentally, had passenger train service for decades until 1972, when the troubled Penn Central abruptly pulled the plug).
But Arlene Iuliano, the Amenia town supervisor, is not convinced. "That's what they used to say about Amenia," she said. "It may take 10 or 20 years before they continue north, but they will."
TO build ridership, Metro-North made a decision not to stint on service. "So we're basically running the same number of trains into and out of Amenia that we run between Dover Plains and Grand Central," said Margaret Anders, a Metro-North spokeswoman. That means four trains to Manhattan during peak hours each weekday and eight off-peak trains, the first train departing at 5:13 a.m., the last at 10:33 p.m. There are 13 weekday trains from Manhattan to Wassaic. The commute takes about 2 hours and 15 minutes each way.
Since service started at the Wassaic and Tenmile stations, Ms. Anders said, ridership has averaged 167 passengers each weekday. That, of course, is only a tiny fraction of the total 24.3 million Harlem Line passengers that Metro-North projects for this year. But ridership on the upper Harlem Line is among the fastest growing throughout the Metro-North system.
A. J. Hayes, an Amenia realtor since 1971, said the Wassaic station's parking lot has already attracted many cars from neighboring Connecticut and Massachusetts. And an economic impact study of the Wassaic and Amenia areas, released in September 1999, forecast that residential real estate values in the region will increase over time as ridership to and from Wassaic increases.
The study forecast 12 percent annual growth rate in passengers using the Wassaic station, adding that "it is only a matter of time before the sites near the train terminus are developed." A study of real estate by Regina Armstrong for the New York Regional Plan Association projected that the extension of the railroad to Wassaic would eventually result in a 64 percent increase in the number of residences within the hamlet of Wassaic and 17 percent outside of the hamlet.
"We expect the train to Wassaic to bring in tourism dollars and raise property values," said Kathleen Schibanoff, executive director of the Harlem Valley Partnership, an economic and regional planning group. "And we expect it to bring a big migration of people who said they never would have considered a long commute, but change their minds when they have kids and think more about the quality of life."
Similar impulses were probably involved in 1980 to 1990, when there was a 30 percent increase in ridership from Dutchess County to White Plains, according to the economic survey, and a 108 percent increase in commuting to Manhattan.
Mr. Hayes, the realtor in Amenia, said that the real estate business had been slow in the area for years. "And since the railroad just started up, it's still a little early for customers to be lined up at the door wanting to buy," he said. "But the last six to eight months, real estate activity has really jumped up."
For the real estate business to break out of its slump and stay there, Wassaic and Amenia would need to attract more people and keep them. And keeping them, realtors say, especially those from big cities, requires a certain degree of patience and understanding on the part of longtime residents and newcomers alike.
Richard and Carol Papper of Manhattan, for example, bought a three-bedroom Victorian farmhouse in Salisbury, Conn., last December and consider the railroad a bonus. But one night while Mrs. Papper and the children were visiting her family out of town, Mr. Papper took the train to Wassaic, then a shuttle bus that dropped him off at a corner in Millerton, N.Y., closer to home.
But at that hour, about 8 p.m., he was unable to find a taxi at the station or at the spot the shuttle bus dropped him off. So he telephoned John Harney, the son of Elyse Harney, their realtor, to ask what to do. Mr. Harney picked Mr. Papper up and drove him home.
"So here was this New York boy who thought you could hail a taxi in the country like you can in New York," Mrs. Papper said, still amused by her husband's predicament, "and instead he was stranded less than 20 minutes from home."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Midtown Direct service saves 20 minutes for commuters who board in Summit, N.J., left, bound for midtown Manhattan. Metro-North's Harlem Line has been extended from Dover Plains, N.Y., to Wassaic, top. The Bergen-Hudson Light Rail route now runs from Bayonne to Jersey City. (Don Standing for The New York Times); (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times); (Associated Press)(pg. 1); Cathy and Kevin Ryan, shown outside a relative's house in Bayonne, N.J., decided to buy their own house a block from the Light Rail station. (Dith Pran/The New York Times); Sean and Sue Leonard and Megan, 3, moved to Chatham Township, N.J., where he can commute into Manhattan without changing trains. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 4)
 
Map of New Jersey highlighting the Secaucus Transfer (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); SUBURBS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (74%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (68%); PRICE CHANGES (67%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (52%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%); 

PERSON: KEVIN RYAN (88%); MICHAEL GALLO (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



14 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 90 words

HEADLINE: Oil and Poker

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "A Drop in the Barrel?", by Paul Krugman (column, Sept. 27): A poker player with a winning hand but not enough money to stay in the game is still a loser. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries has much more oil than we do, and has shown a willingness to balance its economic needs against ours. The small release of oil from our reserve has far more to do with politics than prices. That arena, not the market, is where the real "manipulators" work.
 
ARNOLD AHLERT
Boca Raton, Fla., Sept. 27, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (66%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (66%); FLORIDA, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POKER (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (55%); 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



15 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: Economic Outsiders

 BODY:

To the Editor:
The most recent data issued from the Census Bureau reveal a continuation of the substantial decline in poverty since 1993 (news article, Sept. 27). The administration has every right to trumpet that welcome news, but there remains much of concern. 
 Nearly 40 percent of poor families in 1999 had incomes below half of the poverty threshold (the threshold was $13,290 for a family of three, for example). Further, the average income among all poor families fell nearly $6,700 short of the poverty threshold.
Our booming economy notwithstanding, millions have been left behind with profoundly insufficient economic resources.
 
NEIL G. BENNETT
New York, Sept. 27, 2000
 
The writer is a professor at the Baruch School of Public Affairs, CUNY. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BARUCH SCHOOL (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POVERTY RATES (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); CENSUS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); 

PERSON: NEIL G BENNETT NEW YORK (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



16 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 9; Page 12; Column 4; Society Desk

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Nora Odendahl, David Searls

 BODY:
Dr. Nora Vivian Odendahl and Dr. David Burdette Searls were married yesterday by the Rev. Christine Reed, a Unitarian Universalist minister, at Prospect House, the Princeton University faculty and staff club.
Dr. Odendahl, 44, will keep her name. She is a test developer for the Educational Testing Service in Princeton, N.J. She graduated magna cum laude from Dartmouth College and received a doctorate in English from Princeton. She is the daughter of Alice Wallerstein of Chevy Chase, Md., and the late Alan Odendahl, and is the stepdaughter of Leibert B. Wallerstein. Her mother retired as an adjunct professor teaching English to foreign students at Montgomery College in Rockville, Md. The bride's father was an economist for the Small Business Administration in Washington. 
 Dr. Searls, 49, is a vice president of SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, in King of Prussia, Pa., overseeing a computerized study of the human genome. He is a graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and received a master's degree in computer science from the University of Pennsylvania, as well as a doctorate in biology from Johns Hopkins University. He is the son of Laura and Darrell Searls of Kennett Square, Pa. His mother retired as a teacher and secondary education administrator in Palos Heights, Ill. His father, also retired, was a consulting engineer and specialist in automated material-handling systems at the Austin Company, a design, construction and engineering firm in Cleveland.
The bride and bridegroom became acquainted in October 1998, when Dr. Searls responded to a posting by Dr. Odendahl on match.com, an online dating service.
"I was attracted to her background in English literature," Dr. Searls said. "Because I am a scientist, I've always felt an attraction to the humanities -- to counter the science." He added, "Her interest in biking and hiking were other areas where we were counterbalanced as well."
Dr. Odendahl said that what attracted her to him was how similar they were. He, too, had roots in academia. Both had made a transition to another career: for him, from academic biological research to research in the pharmaceutical industry; for her, from completing doctoral training for a teaching career to working as a test developer.
After a week or two of exchanging phone calls and e-mails, they met for a date on Penn's Landing in Philadelphia, on a tall ship converted into a restaurant.
"I thought it was a charming idea," Dr. Odendahl said. "I had mentioned that I had written my doctoral dissertation thesis on Melville and enjoyed writing it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Pryde Brown)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (67%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (67%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (58%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (87%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AUSTIN CO (67%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICE (58%); SMITHKLINE BEECHAM PHARMACEUTICALS INDIA LTD (56%); SMITHKLINE BEECHAM PHARMA SA (56%); SMITHKLINE BEECHAM PHARMA GMBH (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (56%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (56%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); MARYLAND, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (87%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); ENGINEERING (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); ACADEMIC TESTING (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (73%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (73%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICES (72%); LITERATURE (70%); DATING SERVICES (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); GENOMICS (68%); MATERIALS HANDLING (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (55%); 

PERSON: ODENDAHL, NORA VIVIAN; SEARLS, DAVID BURDETTE ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



17 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: ON THE CONTRARY;
Why Pay More? Go Ask The Germans

BYLINE: By DANIEL AKST; Daniel Akst's column tilts at conventional business wisdom and appears the first Sunday of each month. E-mail: culmoney@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THE events I'm about to relate are almost too terrible to publish in a family newspaper. Nothing is being done to halt the abuse I'm about to describe, but somebody has to blow the whistle. So if you're the squeamish type, turn the page now.
The situation is this: Not far from where I live in the Hudson Valley, a couple of stores named Aldi are engaged in the most outrageous of business practices. No, they are not selling drugs or trafficking in stolen property. What these stores do is offer customers groceries and other goods at unconscionably low prices -- so low, in fact, that even though each outlet is practically in the shadow of a Wal-Mart, a chain notorious for similar dealings, the Aldi outlets have managed to stay in business. 
 As a result of this scheme -- known to hardened economists by the deceptively clinical term "price competition" -- working people are seduced into shopping at Aldi's for the things their families need. Perhaps saddest of all, government authorities stand by and do nothing while this brazen trade in discounted cornflakes and children's shoes goes on in broad daylight.
Not so in Germany. There, enlightened officials at the aptly named German Cartel Office, aghast at the low prices in German Wal-Mart stores, recently stepped in and demanded that the big American discounter charge customers more for staples like milk, butter, flour and cooking oil. German competitors of Wal-Mart were also ordered to charge more, but they probably didn't mind, since the American company had started all the trouble.
The government's aim, it said, was to protect smaller grocers. The German Retail Trade Association, a trade group, applauded the decision as a "hopeful signal for the end of the ruinous cutthroat competition" between Wal-Mart and two rival German supermarket chains, Lidl and Aldi.
But wait a minute. Is that the same Aldi that freely and shamelessly competes on price at 549 stores in 21 states from upstate New York to Kansas? Indeed it is. In fact, on its Web site, the company boasts of how it keeps prices down by selling house brands in a no-frills setting; low prices are a major emphasis. In other words, Aldi of Germany is happily doing in this country precisely what Wal-Mart is being blocked from doing in Germany.
What is to be done? Well, we could retaliate against the Germans by making Aldi's stores on this side of the Atlantic charge us more. Consumers could even be exhorted to notify the authorities of any markdowns.
But in the absence of evidence of truly predatory pricing -- there certainly is no sign that Aldi is driving Wal-Mart to the brink -- what would be the point? Customers benefit from low prices, after all. One Aldi shopper I know, an older woman with a large family who has to scrimp to make ends meet, likes getting warehouse prices without having to pay membership fees. By forcing Aldi to charge more, the government would just be imposing a regressive tax on Aldi shoppers -- and making a gift of the proceeds to a German multinational.
It is easy to poke fun at regulators who insist on higher prices, and sooner or later German customers will demand a more competitive retail environment, with lower prices and longer store hours. Then the country's merchants will finally have to give people what they want, which, of course, is what retailing is all about.
But there is a much more interesting lesson here, one that goes far beyond the price of milk at Wal-Mart. For nations that impose them, trade restrictions are their own punishment. If the Germans do something stupid, like demanding that stores raise their prices, why should we follow suit?
IN other words, the only sensible approach to international trade is unilateral disarmament. The benefits of letting Aldi's compete freely with Wal-Mart -- and letting imports flow unrestricted -- are just too great, and any remedy we could impose would be worse than the "problem." Seen in this light, trade negotiations are like one of those standoffs in which an armed gunman takes himself hostage. As the economist N. Gregory Mankiw of Harvard likes to say, multilateral trade pacts mean agreeing with other nations that "I won't shoot myself in the foot if you won't shoot yourself in the foot."
Just to see what the reaction would be, I put in a call to executives at Aldi's American headquarters in Batavia, Ill., intending to plead with them to raise prices in their stores. They never called me back. Probably just as well: I might have persuaded them.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (56%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (69%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); FAMILY (90%); PRICE CUTTING (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); CARTELS (74%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (73%); WEB SITES (72%); CHILDREN (72%); PRIVATE LABELS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); FOOTWEAR (70%); RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



18 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 2; Style Desk

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: COUNTERINTELLIGENCE;
Hitching a Vintage Ride to the Past

BYLINE: By Alex Witchel

 BODY:
THERE are two kinds of car people," Jan Voboril told me as we climbed into his 1916 Lancia convertible. "One likes to polish them, one likes to drive them. I think it's much more fun to drive. Wouldn't you rather cook than do the dishes?"
Sure. But even the dishes sounded more appealing than the prospect of driving over the George Washington Bridge in an 84-year-old car with no roof and no doors on one of the windiest days of the year. I would get my fill of the polishers soon enough, once we reached the Louis Vuitton Classic at Rockefeller Center. The event, which was held last weekend and has been an annual occurrence since 1995, is an outdoor exhibition of 50 of the world's rarest classic cars -- the lush, romantic kind Jay Gatsby would have owned. 
 The Vuitton Classic judges cars on their rarity, impeccable provenance (whether they are original or reconstituted), history (whether a celebrity or famous race car driver owned it or drove it) and engineering excellence. There are more car enthusiasts today then ever, said the show's curator, Murray Livingstone Smith, who races vintage cars around the world. And with the present economy, more people are buying, everyone from "the chairman of Wal-Mart to guys at Microsoft," he added. The cars in this year's show were worth about $40 million.
Though the usual venues for vintage cars this valuable are private estates or country clubs, the idea for showing them in the streets was Mr. Smith's. His hunch that the general public might take a liking to the show was right. According to the New York Police Department, last year's event drew two million spectators.
This year, Mr. Smith had another hunch. For the first time, he instituted the New York Style Awards at the classic. "Generally speaking, cars are only judged by car people," Mr. Smith said. "I wanted to take people with aesthetic sensibilities and see how the cars appeal to them. A great design has great value. A Balenciaga dress that was good then is good now."
Mr. Smith assembled a jury of eight style mavens that included Eileen and Jerry Ford, founders of the Ford Modeling Agency; Martha Nelson, managing editor, In Style magazine; Dana Cowin, editor in chief, Food & Wine magazine; Brenda Cooper, host of E! channel's "Fashion Emergency"; Laurin Sydney, anchor, CNN's "Showbiz Today"; Amy Fine Collins, special correspondent, Vanity Fair; and Tiffany Dubin, vintage fashion expert.
The idea of linking cars and fashion is nothing new. In the early 1920's, the French paired the latest couturier fashions with the most elegant automobile designs, calling it a concours d'elegance, a competition of elegance. Cars would be judged with models posing beside them, and wealthy individuals would then order their own custom-built cars and custom-made gowns.
Those events virtually disappeared during World War II, but were reinstated in the economic boom of the 1950's, a trend that was celebrated in a 1997 exhibition at the Fashion Institute of Technology called "Fashion: Automobile Fabrics of the 1950's." That was the decade when women who bought the 1952 Crown Victoria Ford were given a coat to match their new car, and Dodge buyers could order the 1955 La Femme in pink and white, with a matching shoulder bag, lipstick case and compact.
I thought about coordinated cars and outfits as I joined Mr. Voboril for the last leg of his journey in his 1916 Lancia; he had started in Los Angeles less than a week earlier. One of the best-known classic car restorers in this country, he bought the car for $2,300 in 1973, and has put 130,000 miles on it.
I met him in New Jersey, and though the temperature was in the 80's, he gave me a heavy blue baseball jacket to ward off the wind on the bridge. I had tied a Hermes scarf around my head, imagining how glamorous I would look, but he insisted I anchor it with a red baseball cap. I ended up looking like a refugee from the right side of the tracks in Anatevka who had somehow wandered into a seventh-inning stretch.
Mr. Voboril says he estimates the car to be worth "about $100,000." For that kind of money you'd think you'd get a key, but he had to get down on all fours to start it somewhere underneath. As he tried, he drew quite a crowd in the parking lot of a Marriott hotel near the bridge. One man said confidently, "It will never start." Mr. Voboril responded, "It's not getting it going that's the problem, it's stopping it." Oh, swell.
Once on the road, Mr. Voboril was intent on getting Lancia up to her full speed of 85 miles an hour, and, I'm sorry to say, nearly succeeded. I clutched the outside of the car for ballast while sliding off my shoes so I could grip the floor with my bare feet. The car had no well for legs; the floor was flat out in front of us.
Mr. Voboril, whose complexion resembles a rock formation, clearly relishes being at one with the elements. He was also so completely bonded with the car, driving it with both feet and a stick shift, that he pulled me out of my fear. To drive in a car like this is to travel through time, to see what it must have been like nearly a century ago for the first people to try a swift motor car. The thrill of adventure seemed to dance all around us as we crossed the bridge, the sun glittering hard on the water, the open sky beckoning.
As he pulled into Rockefeller Center, the crowd applauded and toasted his journey's end with Champagne.
To try out city driving (utterly tame but for the finger-pointing), I took a quick spin through Central Park with Mr. Smith, who borrowed a Mercedes 300 SL convertible, circa 1963, for the occasion. "These cars are so idiosyncratic," he said. "They have their own characters."
Our Mercedes must have been menopausal; the heat seemed to be on high, and Mr. Smith was understandably reluctant to fool with it. Within minutes, we were soaked with sweat.
By the time the style jury arrived, though, he had cleaned up. "Don't worry about the technical, choose what you like," Mr. Smith encouraged them. They were selecting four categories: Best Car for a Night on the Town; Timeless Style Regardless of Age; the Car I Would Most Like to Own; the Most Surprising Car.
What would the winners get? "Prestige," Mr. Smith said. "And the car jumps in value."
Out the jurors went, clipboards in hand. Mrs. Ford fell immediately in love. "I want that Rolls convertible sedan," she said, pointing to a breathtaking dark green 1910 Rolls-Royce Silver Ghost Tourer with three banks of seats. Ms. Sydney, however, was more interested in Ms. Dubin's boots, an exquisite camel leather with maroon diamond patterns that she had bought at Colette in Paris. "I'd like to drive those boots out of here more than any car," Ms. Sydney said hungrily.
Mostly everyone exclaimed over the 1940 Duesenberg, the last one ever built. Its former owner, the German painter Rudolph Bauer, who was sent to a concentration camp, reclaimed ownership after the war; the car was bought by a restorer and still has its original tires.
The car's interior was purple leather. "It's so chic," Ms. Cowin said. "That purple interior is so this season."
Ms. Cooper agreed. "I would have expected deep burgundy," she said.
Everyone marveled at the car that Mr. Smith called the Copper Kettle, a 1921 copper Rolls-Royce that its owner says takes 50 hours to clean. Its battery was housed in a polished wooden box.
The menopausal Mercedes fared well, too. "It has that early Bondian quality," Ms. Nelson said.
Transcending even Bond was the 1925 Rolls-Royce Phantom 1 Torpedo, which was on exhibition but not in competition. It's former owner, the Maharajah of Bekanur, used it to hunt tiger on his 25,000-square-mile estate. The car was equipped with special ammunition cases and twin express rifles.
Ms. Collins arrived only as the rest of the judges were finishing, but she quickly discovered that her purple shoes were a perfect match for the Duesenberg interior. She was the envy of them all.
I checked in on the Lancia. In his zeal to champion the drivers versus the polishers, Mr. Voboril had not only skipped the polish; he hadn't even washed the car or removed the dead bugs from the front grate. The style judges just shook their heads. I found Mr. Voboril.
"Why didn't you at least wash it?" I demanded. One ride and the car was mine. He shrugged. "It was going to rain," he said.
Needless to say, the Lancia didn't win. The 1940 Duesenberg won for a Night on the Town; the dark green 1910 Rolls-Royce won for Timeless Style Regardless of Age; Most Surprising was the silver 1936/37 Dubonnet Hispano; and Most Like to Own was the 1953 Ferrari 342 America.
Poor Lancia. I went back outside to take one last look, but my view was blocked by an elderly couple standing in front of it. They were transported.
"Isn't that beautiful?" the woman gushed, positioning her camera.
"Fantastic," her husband exclaimed. "Simply fantastic."
He smiled at me and I nodded. Justice at last.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A 1936/37 Dubonnet Hispano won a vintage car award, but Tiffany Dubin's camel leather boots with a maroon diamond pattern were perhaps just as enviable. (David Corio for The New York Times)(pg. 10); Fashion-and-car bond: At the Louis Vuitton Classic, the interior of a 1940 Duesenberg matches the shoes of Amy Fine Collins. (David Corio for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MC (PAR) (70%); LVMH (BIT) (70%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (70%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (70%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (70%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); FASHION INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FASHION INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); HAUTE COUTURE (74%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (73%); CELEBRITIES (72%); AUTO RACING (71%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (71%); ENGINEERING (66%); FASHION & APPAREL (65%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (64%); POLICE FORCES (63%); 

PERSON: JAN VOBORIL (90%); MURRAY LIVINGSTONE SMITH (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



19 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 9; Page 2; Column 3; Style Desk

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Customers Flock, and the T-Shirts Fly

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH HAYT

 BODY:
NOT every designer can trace his inspiration to the surfers off Newport Beach, Calif., glimpsed on a cross-country motorcycle trip. But that is where Custodio Dalmau, better known as Custo, the designer of Custo Barcelona, had his creative epiphany.
"On the coast from Los Angeles to San Diego, I saw the first printed T-shirt in my life," he recalled. "It existed in Europe as a means for publicity, to advertise something, but not as a fashion statement. I saw a classic surfing T-shirt with a palm tree and a wave rider. It was the experience of my life." 
 Today Mr. Dalmau's snug-fitting psychedelic T-shirts decorated with images of party girls are the marquee items of a moderately priced clothing line that has a cult following. Customers line up for the designer's personal appearances, and many scour the country for every T-shirt he has ever created -- customers like Julieana Choy, 25, an office manager in Manhattan who lives in Fairfield, N.J., and has over 200 Custo Barcelona items.
"I research his T-shirts to get as many as possible," she said. "I contact distributors before each season so that I know what will be in each store. I separate my 1998 shirts from '99 and 2000 and keep the seasons separate, too."
A resident of Barcelona, Mr. Dalmau makes playful clothing that seems to echo that city's whimsical Antonio Gaudi buildings and Surrealist Miro paintings. At his Fashion Week show last month in Bryant Park, his sixth in New York, the models flounced down the runway in outfits splashed with red and pink polka dots, tan suede fringe and disco-style metallics. Set to techno music mixed by a French-African D.J., the collection looked like "I Dream of Jeannie" meets the rave scene.
"They're clothes to dance till 8 in the morning in," said Kim Hastreiter, an editor and publisher of Paper magazine, who was at the show. "He has a huge following. It's kind of like Betsey Johnson. But Betsey is more girly, and he's more clubby or Ibiza-y."
Since 1996, when Custo Barcelona was introduced in a few boutiques in the United States, ringing up $500,000 at wholesale, the brand has grown rapidly. Today it is sold in department stores like Saks Fifth Avenue, Henri Bendel and Neiman Marcus, with projected wholesale revenues this year of $25 million, Mr. Dalmau said. Worldwide, the line is expected to total $50 million this year. Ranging from $65 for a T-shirt to $300 for a cashmere and silk sweater, Custo Barcelona offers an economical way to embrace the swirling prints currently in fashion, compared with the four-figure designer versions from Fendi, Pucci and Versace.
"Custo came at just the right time when people wanted a change," said Joan Kaner, the senior vice president and fashion director of Neiman Marcus. "Fashion had turned a corner from minimalism and modernist. The line is about pattern and color and fun. The lady who buys Custo is interested in fun and fashion without a heavy investment."
Retailers across the country confirmed that Custo Barcelona is so popular that the items rarely go on sale. Although Mr. Dalmau isn't the only designer who makes appearances in stores, his habit of autographing his T-shirts has proved irresistible. Before a visit in March to Christians, a boutique in Raleigh, N.C., the store sent customers notices and a local newspaper wrote about the designer. Throngs lined up at the door, credit cards in hand.
"I've been in business 17 years and I've never seen anything like Custo," said Nancy Steelman, the owner of the store. "We sold over 400 units in four hours. We saw people from the military bases of North Carolina. We saw 13-year-old girls to an 85-year-old woman who wore a Custo and had it signed."
Similarly, when Mr. Dalmau made an appearance in April at Henri Bendel on Fifth Avenue, the line stretched to 25 people and the cash registers rang up over 400 shirts in three hours. The store had never sold so many items by a single designer in so short a time, said Gayle Scheck, the department manager for market collections.
At the two Vin Baker boutiques in Santa Monica and Los Angeles, Custo Barcelona is the most profitable of 40 labels, Joe Peach, the owner, said. His best customers are middle-aged women, former flower children, he said, who relate to the graphics, which hark back to the 1960's and 70's. When Mr. Peach posted a date for a T-shirt signing by Mr. Dalmau on the store's Web site, he got orders from around the world.
Mr. Dalmau, 44, is tan and short with rugged good looks. His deep voice and Castilian accent enhance his caballero appeal. Although his designs feature a palette of flamingo pink, peacock blue and canary yellow, he himself prefers a uniform of black and white. Only his long dark hair curling around the nape of his neck, his sandals and a thick silver necklace adorned with a few chunky crucifixes hint at the flower child within.
Twenty years ago, Mr. Dalmau dropped out of architecture school at the University of Barcelona to take a two-year motorcycle trip with friends. To finance their journey, they planned to write about their travels for motorcycle magazines. In June 1980, they began their adventure in Washington Square Park and rode to California. It was there that Mr. Dalmau saw the T-shirt that he says shaped his career.
After the trip, he briefly returned to San Diego to learn to surf. In 1982, he went back to Barcelona, where he had grown up, and started a T-shirt business with his brother, David, four years his junior, who assumed the role of financial manager.
It took 13 years of false starts before the T-shirts evolved beyond simple central images derived from surfer culture to the elaborate designs of today: a mix of vibrant colors and retro prints combined with illustrations of hipster chicks in bell-bottoms, shades, hats and heels, sipping martinis, having a swell time. Recently, Mr. Dalmau began adding fanciful details to the tops, like sequins, eyelets and knit trim, and diversified the collection by including skirts, dresses, pants, tops and even men's wear.
Katherine Coats, 35, an optometrist in Holly Springs, N.C., is a typical collector. Two years ago, she spotted a T-shirt on a store mannequin and liked the retro design. The splashy style also reminded her of Fran Drescher's wardrobe on the television show "The Nanny."
Before long, Ms. Coats was a Custo addict. Every store in the Raleigh area that carries the line now calls her when a shipment comes in. She has instructed them to hold one T-shirt in her size in every style until she can get in to make her selection. Competition for the tops is so fierce that she has been forced to comb the country in her hunt for them.
"I've bought them in Nordstrom's in D.C.," she said. "I tracked down one in Atlanta and another in Texas. I went to a T-shirt signing, and it was unbelievable. There were 15 people lined up outside the store before it even opened. I got there at 9:30 and there were already women ahead of me."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Julieana Choy, 25, is not atypical of Custo Dalmau's fans: she has over 200 items by him, some autographed. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times); Mr. Dalmau preparing for his Fashion Week show in Bryant Park. (David Corio for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (51%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BARCELONA, SPAIN (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); FASHION SHOWS (89%); RETAILERS (88%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); PAINTING (69%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); PUBLISHING (62%); MUSIC (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



20 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
One Home's Unplanned Addition: A Courtroom

BYLINE: By ROY FURCHGOTT

DATELINE: BALTIMORE

 BODY:
BE had done all the right things. We checked the record of the home improvement contractor with state regulators and the Better Business Bureau. We inspected the contractor's jobs in progress. We checked references. And we wrote and signed a detailed contract and an additional written agreement that the contractor would forfeit $100 for each day the job ran late. If the work didn't go smoothly, we thought, we were covered.
Yet, a year later, we were in a Baltimore courtroom, fighting over a project that had run months late and was never finished -- and it was the contractor who was suing us. 
 The contractor-homeowner relationship is a famously fraught one, of course. Almost everyone has heard horror stories about remodeling projects from hell, and read the usual tips about how to head off trouble.
But what happens when the dispute winds up in litigation is seldom dissected. Our experience disabused us of some cherished notions about day-to-day civil justice and exposed the near-uselessness of many of our precautions, especially when contractors are in such short supply that homeowners have almost no leverage over them.
The story starts with a house that my girlfriend, Guillemette Brouillat, bought in November 1998 in Canton, a mainly industrial area of Baltimore being gentrified with a technology center, stores and waterfront condominiums. She paid $77,000 for a fixer-upper near the tech center on a block that seemed poised for a renaissance. Together, we set out to get the place up to scratch.
After interviewing about a dozen contractors, we chose Russell L. Miller, a friend of a friend of mine. Mr. Miller returned calls promptly, showed up on time for meetings, had good references, no complaints against him on file, and he didn't object to our desire to do the paint and tile work ourselves.
He was not the least-expensive contractor around, but time meant as much to Guillemette as price, because of the high cost of renting space elsewhere while the work was done. Plus, her mortgage agreement mandated higher interest charges during construction, and a six-month deadline for completion.
Demolition started on time, and the framing went quickly. But progress soon slowed, then seemed to come to a halt. The nine weeks specified in the contract elapsed. Nervous, we started doing more of the work ourselves, and barely got the house to a state that would satisfy the bank in time.
As is usual with home improvements, Mr. Miller had been receiving partial payments along the way, with a final payment of $7,314 due on completion, plus $1,899 for work added to the project after it had begun. But by our initial reckoning, the job ran 91 days over, making the late fee $9,100, almost as much as the $9,212 we owed Mr. Miller. We wrote to him, offering to pay $1,899 for the extra work and call the rest even. That was a lot less than he was expecting but, we thought, more than he was strictly entitled to. We awaited a counterproposal.
Instead, Guillemette was served with a legal notice: Mr. Miller's company, M & M Restorations, wanted to put a lien on the house for the entire $9,212, ignoring the late fees, and was suing us to do so.
We hired a lawyer, Thomas A. Baker, a construction industry specialist, who explained to us our first mistake: calling the $100-a-day fee a penalty. As in most other states, Maryland law generally allows "damages" for whatever the delay cost us out of pocket, but not "penalties," so a judge could throw out the whole contract on that technicality, Mr. Baker said.
Financially speaking, mistake No. 2 was plowing ahead with litigation despite Mr. Baker's warning that the cost could rapidly outstrip the amount at issue. But an emotional calculus was at work: Guillemette was losing sleep worrying about the dispute, fighting back would make us feel better, and lawyers don't charge all that much more than therapists. So we countersued, asking for a delay penalty that we now reckoned at $9,800, plus $4,521 to repair faulty work.
Over the next few months, Mr. Baker had us spend tedious hours amassing an accordion file full of photographs, specification sheets, building codes, timetables and other evidence to support our claim. Meanwhile, we received the specifics of M & M's claim, which basically said the delay was our fault.
(Asked last week to comment for this article, Mr. Miller said: "Delays were caused by the homeowner's inability to complete the work she had charged herself with doing in a reasonable amount of time.")
We were sure that, given our evidence, the court had to back our delay claim. But that was mistake No. 3. Irrespective of proof, Mr. Baker told us, courts generally discard such claims: "Judges tend to say, 'Is the work complete? If so, pay the contractor.' "
On Mr. Baker's advice, we grudgingly switched our sights to more promising legal territory: work defects. Courts, he said, usually support homeowners who hold back from a contractor the amounts they spend to correct poor work. But by fixing some problems ourselves and putting others off, we had made mistake No. 4: The courts, Mr. Baker told us, care only about money actually spent and rarely compensate homeowners for work they do themselves.
(Asked last week to comment on the faulty-work claim, Mr. Miller said, "There were no complaints from the homeowner to myself or any of my employees until after I had brought a lawsuit against them.")
We were learning that at this level, lawsuits are anything but a high-minded contest of evidence and argument. The court's main goal is to clear cases from a crowded docket, and there is little patience for aggrieved homeowners expecting meticulous pursuit of the truth.
When our first court date arrived in May, neither side had budged from an initial meeting in which we had offered to pay $4,000 of the $9,212 Mr. Miller wanted, but he had come down by only $1,000, to $8,212.
Before hearing any arguments or testimony, Judge Richard T. Rombro called the lawyers into chambers to get the bidding going again. We raised our offer to $5,200, Mr. Miller came down to $7,412, and Mr. Baker told us we seemed headed for a settlement at around $6,000. We thought we could do better in a trial -- mistake No. 5, since each additional day in court added $1,500 to our legal fees. But the emotional math still added up, so we held firm.
The next time around, in mid-June before Judge John C. Byrnes, the settlement tango was reprised. "The judge thinks the case will settle for $6,000," our lawyer told us. Still too high, we thought. But when Mr. Miller unexpectedly agreed to that figure, we were on the spot: refusing might seem unreasonable to the judge, who might find for Mr. Miller in a trial to teach us a lesson. Still, the judge had yet to see our evidence. We decided to roll the dice.
That might have become mistake No. 6, but for a curious turn of events. The judge called Guillemette into chambers -- "to bang her over the head," Mr. Baker told me outside. The judge was polite but firm, Guillemette reported afterward: "He said, 'We are not trying this case over a couple of hundred dollars.' "
Guillemette offered to drop the delay claim, and told the judge, "I just want enough to fix the defects." He asked what proof she had -- any photographs, perhaps?
At last! Guillemette produced our bulging accordion file, starting with holes in water-damaged basement walls where light could be seen streaming in. "They left it like that?" he asked her, amazed. Guillemette was dismissed and Mr. Miller summoned.
We soon settled on a payment of $5,800 of the $9,212 Mr. Miller wanted. All our trouble had won us a reduction of $3,412.
We considered it a moral victory, if a pyrrhic one -- Mr. Baker's bill came to $6,914, even after a generous gift of a day's fees, and the house still needed work. Over sandwiches afterward, we discussed how justice works in a case like ours.
Mr. Baker explained that while our case was unique and all-important to us, judges have seen thousands like it. "The judge first meets with the lawyers to see if he trusts them," Mr. Baker said -- a wash in our case, with experienced local lawyers on each side. Next, the judge might ask a few questions to help steer the parties toward a settlement. Evidence might only enter into the matter to satisfy the judge's curiosity, as in our case, or at a trial, if settlement talks failed.
Our fight didn't make economic sense in the end, but we thought that we would at least be leaving a record that could guide other homeowners. Again we were mistaken. To complete the settlement, we had to agree to withdraw a complaint we had filed against M & M with the Maryland Home Improvement Commission -- and the Better Business Bureau does not report complaints that have been settled out of court. There is a public record of the suit at the courthouse, but you'd have to know just where to look.
Having learned some expensive lessons, we thought next about the remodeling work that my house needs, and asked Mr. Baker how we could immunize ourselves against winding up in court again.
"You can't," he said, almost cheerfully. He insisted on paying for lunch.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: When a remodeling project went awry, Guillemette Brouillat, shown in front of her house during construction, wound up fighting the contractor in court. Evidence gathered to support her claim included photographs of a hole in a basement wall. (Photographs by Roy Furchgott)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (88%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); MARYLAND, USA (88%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HOME REMODELING (91%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (90%); BETTER BUSINESS BUREAUS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); LITIGATION (70%); 

PERSON: THOMAS A BAKER (85%); RUSSELL L MILLER (80%); GUILLEMETTE BROUILLAT (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



21 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: Jean-Pierre Conreur;
Tocqueville Small Cap Value Fund

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
ALEXIS DE TOCQUEVILLE, the French historian and philosopher, visited the young United States in the early 1830's and wrote "Democracy in America," concluding that the democratic system would indeed survive for the long term.
"It was a revolutionary idea at the time," said Jean-Pierre Conreur, who runs the $35.4 million Tocqueville Small Cap Value fund. "The name implies contrarian thinking. It's like our value investing style, which is based on the belief that the majority is usually wrong." 
 That perspective has paid off for investors, even in the bull market. The fund has returned 12.9 percent a year, on average, for the three years ended on Sept. 28, compared with 6.6 percent for its peers in the small blend category of funds, according to Morningstar Inc.
In choosing the 35 or so stocks for the fund, Mr. Conreur, 62, trolls the bottom of the market, looking for undervalued companies with market capitalizations of $250 million to $1 billion.
"I look at companies that all the Wall Street analysts have given up on," he said in a thick French accent, despite his 44 years in the United States, mostly in New York. "They are ignored for very good reasons -- like the company missed its projected earnings or is in the midst of a product line transition or a deep cyclical downturn."
The companies he chooses are typically down 60 to 80 percent from their five-year highs -- and there are many such stocks from which to choose in a volatile market. "The market is driven by earnings and price momentum," he said. "As a result, we get extreme valuations on the upside and on the downside."
He uses three computer screens. The first looks for companies whose stocks are selling near 52-week lows. Then comes a search for price-to-sales multiples that are near their lows of the last 5 or 10 years; the companies in the portfolio sell for just one times their annual revenue, on average.
"Because the American economy has been booming over the last 12 years, many companies have extraordinarily high profit margins, which translate into very high price-sales ratios," Mr. Conreur said. "If anything happens to those margins, stock prices will collapse."
Finally, he screens the usual financial data, including long-term debt, accounts payable and receivable and reinvestment in the business. "We're checking to see that a company's short-term problems don't affect its long-term picture," he said.
MR. CONREUR works with three industry analysts to evaluate whether a company can return at least triple his investment over the next three to five years. They ask questions of company management, to learn whether a business plan is in place to fix problems over the next year or so. Then they monitor the plan's progress to make sure that the company does not shift gears midway.
The analysts also check to see if, as Mr. Conreur puts it, "the company is losing money for the right reasons," like heavy investments in research and development or new equipment.
Mr. Conreur sells stock when its valuation triples or quadruples or when insiders dump a big block of shares.
His biggest holding is Input/Output of Stafford, Tex., one of the largest American makers of seismic equipment used in oil and gas exploration, primarily on land. Its stock price fell from $40 in 1998 to $5.33 in October 1999, when he first bought shares. Mr. Conreur attributes the drop to the collapse in oil and gas prices last year, which caused a drastic cutback in exploration equipment purchases by major oil companies. While prices have since shot up, companies have not yet made major investments in needed exploration equipment, he said. But that is "just a matter of time," he added.
The shares closed on Friday at $9.63, or 160 times consensus earnings estimates of 6 cents a share for the fiscal year ending next May.
Mr. Conreur also likes Anixter International of Skokie, Ill., the former distribution arm of AT&T. He expects sales of its telecommunications equipment to grow over the next few years, "because many businesses and buildings must be rewired to deliver new high-speed communications networks to small businesses." Anixter's share price fell after it missed several quarters' earnings projections following the 1998 Asian economic crisis; the fund bought shares in October 1998 at $14.50; they are now at $14.75 or six times Wall Street earnings projections of $2.45 a share for 2001.
"Wall Street is waking up a little bit to the stock," he said, "but it still sells for a modest multiple."
Another holding is Henry Schein Inc. of Melville, N.Y., which was the second-largest distributor of dental supplies until 1997, when it acquired Sullivan Dental, the third-largest, and jumped to first. Because the acquisition was difficult to integrate, the company missed its earnings projections in 1999.
"Talks with management convinced us that the integration problems were being resolved," Mr. Conreur said, "and it should become a growth business again over the next year or so."
The fund bought shares in August 1999 at $11.47; they closed on Friday at $19.94 or 10.6 times the consensus earnings estimate of $1.87 a share for 2001.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: At Jean-Pierre Conreur's Long Island home, the reflecting lily pond is a pacific refuge from the market hurly-burly. (Phil Marino for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Tocqueville Small Cap Value"
Category: Small-cap blend
Net assets: $35.4 million
Inception: August 1994
Manager: Jean-Pierre Conreur since inception
Minimum purchase: $1,000 ($250 I.R.A.)
Portfolio turnover: 72%
5-year annualized return through Aug.31: 19.4%
Category average: 15.0%
 
Sector breakdown
Technology: 33.1%
Health: 16.4%
Energy 5.6%
Industrial cyclicals: 22.9%
Services: 17.8%
Other: 4.2%
 
Fees
Front-end load: None
Deferred load: None
12b-1 fee: 0.25%
Expense ratio: 1.52%
(Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); CORPORATE DEBT (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); BUSINESS PLANS (67%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (50%); 

PERSON: JEAN-PIERRE CONREUR (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



22 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2875 words

HEADLINE: A Matter of Degree? Not for Consultants

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

DATELINE: WELLESLEY, Mass.

 BODY:
THERE was a doctor from Boston and a lawyer from Chicago, a philosopher from Australia and an engineer from France. There were people who had Ph.D.'s in mathematics, sociology and astronautics. In fact, in the tiered classroom filled with 50 clean-cut, casually dressed people in their 20's and 30's, there seemed to be just about every graduate degree imaginable, except one: the M.B.A.
Yet within a few weeks, this hyper-educated crowd would go forth as certified management consultants, advising the executives of multibillion-dollar companies. Their projects would, most likely, have little to do with their academic backgrounds. Lawyers would help packaged-foods companies develop new products, and physicists would tell Internet start-ups how to stand out from the crowd. 
 To prepare, the neophyte consultants had come to the campus of Babson College here in this western Boston suburb for a three-week crash course in the basics of business. It was run by their new employer, the Boston Consulting Group.
When it was over, the class would be unleashed on corporate America. "This," said one student, Susan Meine, a lawyer from Atlanta, "allows me to get a business education without getting a degree."
To a growing and surprising extent, this is also how the entry level looks at the most prestigious management consulting firms, ones that count the world's biggest companies among their clients and that have long been dominated by M.B.A.'s. More than half of the consultants at McKinsey & Company do not have a Master of Business Administration degree, a share that is up sharply from a decade ago. Some 20 percent of Boston Consulting's new hires in the United States fall into the same category this year -- four times the level in 1995. Other firms are following suit.
Perhaps most striking are the results: the lawyers and doctors and philosophers perform no worse than their business school counterparts, according to internal studies done by the firms. If anything, they are promoted faster, on average.
All of this raises an interesting and disquieting question: What is the point of an M.B.A., anyway? If there is a single job for which business school -- with its broad curriculum and a teaching method heavy on case studies -- prepares someone, it is consulting. Yet the very consulting firms that are most popular among M.B.A.'s -- as well as with companies -- are now turning increasingly to people with none of this training.
 Part of the explanation is simple. With the tightest labor market in at least 30 years, particularly so for high-paying professional jobs, companies of all kinds are searching in new places for talented people. Consulting firms are especially hungry; they have seen their revenues nearly double in the last four years, according to Kennedy Information, which tracks the industry.
The consulting firms still hire hundreds of M.B.A.'s and say they would sign up even more if many of the most desirable candidates were not instead joining dot-com companies that can lure them with equity stakes.
But another aspect of the shift is more complex. Partners at places like Bain & Company and McKinsey have increasingly recognized that their profession does not require much specific training.
"Frankly, business is in some ways not that difficult to learn," said Rajat Gupta, McKinsey's managing partner. "We can pick up people who have not studied business and can teach them, if they have the intellectual firepower."
THE underlying issue -- whether business practices are best taught in an academic setting or should be learned on the job, as they are in an apprenticeship -- is at least as old as the M.B.A. Since Harvard started awarding the degree in 1910, some educators have derided business schools as intellectual deserts. The harshest critics say the two years spent earning an M.B.A. are little more than an extended job search and a chance to build of network of contacts.
The skeptics note, for example, that Harvard Business School offers business cards bearing the school's crest to its students shortly after they arrive. Stanford, the nation's most selective business school, does not even hold classes on Wednesdays -- which allows many of the students to hit the university's immaculate golf course.
Outside the leafy walls of universities, however, the degree has become known as a golden passport, a credential that is nearly a requirement for joining upper management. The current chief executives of General Motors, Goldman Sachs, Hewlett-Packard, I.B.M., Merck and Nike, for instance, all hold the passport -- as does, for the first time this year, a major-party nominee for president, George W. Bush. The M.B.A., its many supporters say, gives people a business grounding that they would otherwise need years to learn.
Over a two-year curriculum, a business school exposes its students to hundreds of corporate scenarios and allows them to learn valuable lessons by making mistakes that would be unacceptable at a for-profit company, professors say. That is why many companies, whether investment banks or packaged-good conglomerates, are doing little to diversify their graduate-school hiring.
STILL, from some perspectives, these are not the best of times for the M.B.A. The strong economy has left many potential students satisfied with their current jobs -- or eager to join start-ups. If Bill Gates or Jeff Bezos didn't need an M.B.A., some people wonder why they do, either. Also, with technology rapidly and fundamentally changing so many industries, other people worry that two years spent outside the work force is too long.
Last year, the number of applications fell at nearly every highly ranked business school, markedly at some. The number of applicants to Stanford has declined 23 percent in the last two years. Over the same period, the downturn was 10 percent at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School -- proclaimed the nation's best in Business Week's recent ranking. At the University of Virginia, applications fell 24 percent.
Deans of business schools point out that many of the declines have followed record high numbers of applications. On the other hand, those decreases would have been even steeper without the continued influx of foreign applicants, who now make up one-third of the student body on many campuses.
Companies, for their part, are increasing the amount of training they offer on their own, said Richard Schmalensee, the dean of the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
"At the moment, there is some erosion in the notion that the M.B.A. is a required ticket of admission" to a successful business career, Mr. Schmalensee said. "What I can't tell is how much of that is cyclical and how much is secular" or, more structural.
Arguably, no development presents as much of an intellectual challenge to the rationale for business school as the consulting firms' new hiring and training practices. Consulting has been and remains the most popular job for fresh M.B.A. graduates. Despite the appeal of dot-com start-ups, the demand for jobs at firms like the Boston Consulting Group is high enough that its partners recruit at only about a dozen business schools -- and they make offers to a small number of the candidates they interview. In other words, even for an M.B.A., the odds of landing such a job are long -- and the pool of potential hires for the consulting firms is deep.
But rather than dip too much further into it, the firms are turning to people with almost no business experience. Booz Allen & Hamilton, after years of ad hoc hiring of non-M.B.A.'s, started formally recruiting Ph.D.'s on campus last year and expects that one-third of its new consultants this year will not have M.B.A.'s. This fall, Bain is visiting M.I.T., Stanford and a handful of other universities to woo doctoral students for the first time.
Instead of spending two years learning about finance and marketing, as business school students do, the new breed of consultants spends a few weeks in programs like Boston Consulting's version. They skim through subjects that get months of attention in an M.B.A. program.
Booz Allen and McKinsey call their versions the "mini-M.B.A." McKinsey runs one program each month somewhere in Europe or North America; they are less frequent at Booz Allen.
The graduates -- or mini-graduates, as it were -- are thriving. The London office of Boston Consulting, for example, recently found that its non-M.B.A.'s were receiving better evaluations, on average, than their peers who had gone to business school, according to one consultant there.
The new consultants do not even seem to need much time to catch up to their M.B.A. counterparts. McKinsey, long the most aggressive firm in courting other degree holders, recently looked around the world at its consultants who had been on the job for one, three or seven years. "At all three points," said A. Mini Harris, the manager of the firm's recruiting and herself a Stanford M.B.A., "the folks who don't have a business background are at least as successful."
That said, the statistics indicate that business school is still a good investment for its graduates. Most graduates of the very top schools make more than $125,000 in their first year after receiving their degrees. Even at less selective schools, M.B.A.'s often graduate to jobs that pay twice what their previous positions did.
But the hiring experiment by the consulting firms does raise the issue of why companies seek out M.B.A.'s. Is it for what they have learned? Or because the admissions offices of business schools have picked out smart people who show an interest in a business career? "It is a prescreened pool," said Jill Rupple, a partner at Diamond Technology Partners, a consulting firm that hired 85 M.B.A.'s last year and few lawyers, doctors or Ph.D.'s. "That is one of the traditional reasons strategy firms have gone to business schools."
FROM their founding, business schools have been subject to questions of legitimacy that their fellow professional schools in law and medicine have rarely faced (but that schools of journalism and education often have). Some academics have fretted that commerce is an inherently unscientific field and that the study of it sullies a university. Many business people have harbored doubts that intellectuals have much to teach them anyway.
Nearly 120 years ago, however, Joseph Wharton, a wealthy Philadelphia ironmaster, dismissed such doubts, giving the University of Pennsylvania $100,000 to create the first modern business school. It was 1881, and Mr. Wharton, 55 at the time, was concerned that colleges were not adequately preparing their students, the future elites of the management ranks, for the rapidly industrializing American economy.
Management education, Mr. Wharton wrote to the university's trustees in proposing the new venture, "would greatly aid in producing a class of men likely to become most useful members of society, whether in private or public life."
Dartmouth followed in 1900, by setting up the first graduate school of business, while the faculty at Harvard was intensely debating whether to do likewise.
Charles W. Eliot, its president, soon became convinced that companies were promoting unqualified people, based on nepotism or guesswork, and that the nation's economy could suffer as a result.
"A young man who is going into business had better take an academic course, in my sense of the term, if he has any mind to train," the president wrote in 1901, according to the official history of Harvard Business School. "That is an indisputable proposition, and there is no use discussing it."
Not everyone was so sure. "General business is a pretty vague thing, for which it is probably impossible to give anything like a professional training," wrote A. Lawrence Lowell, a government professor who would later succeed Mr. Eliot as president.
Eventually, the proponents won over many of the skeptics. Harvard Business School opened in 1908, and the first Master of Business Administration degrees were awarded two years later to eight students. (Dartmouth's degree had a different name.) Today, some 900 American universities award a master's in business, and each year 170,000 people around the world take the standardized test that nearly all schools require for admission. Students then pay up to $30,000 annually in tuition.
Over the last 50 years, business schools have alternately emphasized so-called hard skills, like finance, and soft ones, like leadership, which are more popular now. Either way, the typical M.B.A. curriculum, in both length and rigor, is a far cry from the "Business Essentials Program" that the Boston Consulting was holding at Babson.
The teachers were senior members of the firm and professors from various business schools who came here for a few days of lectures each. Management accounting took up three days. Finance lasted two.
A Tuesday afternoon toward the end of the program was typical of the compromises that were necessary.
Pacing back and forth in the well of the classroom, a professor was leading a discussion on pricing when he turned toward the class with a question: When should a firm charge high prices and when should it set low ones? None of the soon-to-be consultants responded. So the teacher -- who asked not to be identified because his school did not want to be publicly associated with the Boston Consulting Group program -- answered his own question and quickly told an insurance industry anecdote to make his point.
In an 80-minute session that tried to cover the same material as five full M.B.A. classes, the professor said, he could not spend a half-hour helping the students arrive at every answer on their own.
Already, in one afternoon, the class had analyzed case studies about two Internet companies -- VerticalNet and Freemarkets OnLine -- and had debated which one had a more sustainable business model. Afterward, a mathematician and an aeronautics Ph.D. in the class engaged in a role-playing exercise, one of them acting as the head of procurement for General Electric and the other as a small cabinetmaker. Then the professor drew a matrix on a dry-erase board, collecting ideas from the class about which kinds of companies benefit from business-to-business Web sites.
AFTER class, the students boarded a bus for downtown Boston and watched the Red Sox beat the Oakland A's, 10-3, from the right-field stands of Fenway Park. Two nights later, the consultants shared a graduation dinner, and their 20-day sprint, filled with 17 days of classes, was over. They returned to their offices, in Toronto, San Francisco, Seoul and points beyond, to work alongside M.B.A's and have their firm charge clients $100 an hour, and more, for their time.
Typically, the consultants are eager to get to their new challenge, either to earn more money or to escape the repetitive and isolated nature of their former fields, they said. "In science, you're not rewarded for being a good team player," said Kian Beyzavi, a Ph.D. in electrical engineering, who now works for McKinsey.
At Babson, there seemed to be a unanimous feeling among the doctors and lawyers that they would be at little if any disadvantage. The three-week program was helping them learn the vocabulary of corporate America, they said, and the analytical tools they needed -- like revenue models and spreadsheets -- were not all that different from ones they had used in earlier schooling.
"Basically, the way you think is the same," said Vladik Boutenko, who studied physics in Moscow and now works in the Paris office of Boston Consulting. "It's a question of learning the jargon."
James Deaker, who has a Ph.D. in operations research from Stanford, added, "It's a lot easier to learn the soft skills."
Indeed, at a time when technology is changing the rules for many industries, the skills of scientists and physicians are especially attractive to consulting firms looking to develop new theories. "Oftentimes, the problems they're trying to solve really do require a deeper level of analytical skills" than many M.B.A.'s have, said Laura D'Andrea Tyson, the dean of the University of California's Haas School of Business and the former chairwoman of President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers.
Business school graduates have other skills, Ms. Tyson said. They can communicate ideas effectively, and their familiarity with dozens and dozens of case studies allows them to make decisions even when important data is unavailable, for example.
They have a vast "tool kit," said Ms. Rupple, of Diamond Technology Partners, that helps them decide the best way to approach a wide range of problems.
 EVEN in the Internet economy, where a good idea is supposed to trump any formal qualification like the M.B.A., those skills are appreciated, business school supporters say. Consider the many Internet start-ups, like eBay, that have hired chief executives with M.B.A.'s once the companies grew large.
Of course, those same companies are now turning around and getting advice from consultants who spent most of their academic careers learning to read Chaucer or to diagnose strep throat.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kian Beyzavi, a McKinsey consultant with a Ph.D. in electrical engineering, in a client's research lab. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Guillaume Latil, Phil Lamb and Jenny Fujii, trainees with the Boston Consulting Group, take part in a group exercise at Babson College. (Michael Quan for The New York Times); Stuart Grief, left, a vice president, spoke to some of the 150 people at a Boston Consulting recruiting event. (Photographs by Rick Friedman for The New York Times)(pg. 18)
 
Chart: "Not All Business"
Degrees held by McKinsey & Company consultants.
 
M.B.A. only: 47%
Ph.D.: 25%
Law, medical, other master's: 28%
 
A small percentage of consultants have both an M.B.A. and another graduate degree.M.B.A.
(Source: McKinsey & Company)(pg. 18)
 
Chart: "Although the Consulting Business Is Growing...Fewer M.B.A.'s at Top Schools Are Choosing to Enter the Field"
 
Placement statistics of Harvard Business School
 
Class of 1996
Consulting...35%
High-technology, computer-related services...10%
Venture capital...6%
Investment banking...16%
Other...33%
 
Class of 2000
Consulting...24%
High-technology, computer-related services...23%
Venture capital...16%
Investment banking...11%
Other...26%
 
Chart tracks global consulting industry revenue since 1993.
(Sources: Kennedy Information; Harvard Business School)(pg. 18)
 
Chart: "The Cliff Notes Vs. the Degree"
As the consulting business grows, firms are hiring graduates with advanced degrees other than M.B.A.'s and training people in three-week mini-M.B.A. programs. Here is how one training program compares with a traditional two-year program at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
 
3-week program Business Essentials Program at the Boston Consulting Group
 
Week 1
Quantitative analysis (2 days)
Financial accounting (2 days)
Management accounting (3 days)
 
Week 2
Corporate finance (2 days)
Organizational behavior (1 day)
Quantitative analysis (1 day)
Strategy (2 days)
 
Week 3
Marketing (2 days)
Operations management (2 days)
 
2-year program The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania
 
Year 1
 
Fall
Financial accounting
Statistics
Economics
Marketing
Financial analysis
Leadership and teamwork
Managerial accounting
Strategy
Operations management
Management

Spring
Management
Managerial accounting
Government and legal
Macroeconomic analysis
Field project
Global management
Operations management
Marketing
 
Electives:
Risk and crisis management
Geopolitics
Entrepreneurship
Industry structure
Technology
 
Year 2
 
Fall
Major electives (partial listing):
Business transformation
Decision-making
Economics of health care
Entrepreneurship
International accounting
Managed health care
Managing organizational change
Marketing
Venture capital
Real estate finance
Speculative markets
Urban real estate economics
 
Spring
Major and other electives (partial listing):
Consumer behavior
High-tech entrepreneurship
International finance
Investment management
Management of technology
Game theory
Marketing and e-commerce
Negotiations
Political economy
Risk and crisis management
Strategic planning
Urban fiscal policy
(Sources: Business Essentials Program at Boston Consulting Group; the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania)(pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (55%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); SOCIOLOGY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PHILOSOPHY (78%); CURRICULA (77%); MATHEMATICS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); PHYSICS (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (70%); CASE STUDIES (69%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); STARTUPS (54%); INTERNET & WWW (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



23 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2626 words

HEADLINE: The Empty Booth

BYLINE: By JULIAN E. BARNES

 BODY:
ON primary day last month, E. S. Dixon and Janet Ingram sat in the basement of a public housing project in north Brooklyn and stared at an empty voting booth.
For 12 hours Ms. Ingram and Mr. Dixon, poll workers for the 79th Election District, had done virtually nothing. Since 6 a.m. they had logged only nine voters. Ten feet away, at a voting machine for a neighboring district, a line of six people waited to cast ballots. The running total on that machine stood at 109. 
 "I am not sure what the voter turnout should be," Mr. Dixon said of the 79th. "But I figure it should have been a better turnout than this."
For decades, civics teachers and political analysts have lamented the decline in voting. In the 1964 presidential election, 69.3 percent of voting-age Americans went to the polls. By 1996, that figure had dropped to 54.2 percent. Two years later, in off-year Congressional elections, only 41.9 percent cast a ballot.
But those levels look fantastic compared with the record of the 79th District, a nine-block area of engine repair shops and battered three-story brick homes wedged between Bedford-Stuyvesant, Clinton Hill and Williamsburg. Only 21.3 percent of registered voters cast ballots there in 1996. And in 1998, only 24 of the 181 registered voters, a dismal 13.3 percent, did so. That turnout was the lowest among all the 101 election districts in Brooklyn's 54th Assembly District, which itself had the lowest turnout of the 60 assembly districts in the city. As a portion of the roughly 365 adults in the 79th District, the 1998 participation rate was even more wretched: 7 percent.
Residents of the 79th District cite many of the standard reasons for not voting, from busy work schedules to family responsibilities to cynicism about politics. But the district's pitiful turnout also rests on less familiar, more complex forces.
Many residents cannot vote because they are not citizens. New York has always had many immigrants, but a generation ago most would eventually have become citizens. Today, many arrive with no intention of staying. They may live in New York for years, but their hearts remain in their native lands. And while, many years ago, the local political machines would have tried to persuade these immigrants to become voters, election law changes have blunted that force.
But many of those who can vote do not. Laws intended to increase the voting power of racial minority groups have resulted in assembly districts that twist through many neighborhoods and that lack the communal feel that prompts people to vote. The 79th Election District, straddling its three neighborhoods, lies at the end of just one such rambling assembly district.
Roll all these forces together, and the notion of voting is a distant, hazy one in the 79th.
"When do we vote, what month?" asked Eugene Cobb, 51, an unemployed man whose home on Spencer Street is patched with tar paper to cover spots where the gray stucco exterior has peeled off.
Mr. Cobb thinks he last cast a ballot in 1990, but it might have been 1992 or 1998. In any case, he said, he accidentally pulled the wrong lever and ended up voting for the Communist Party. He has not voted since.
Most of the homes in the 79th District stand near Myrtle Avenue, where there is a restaurant, hair salon, church, video rental store, deli and bakery. The district, shaped like a rough triangle, has industrial blocks, too, where men cluster around cars, tinkering with engines or chatting quietly. Textile companies still operate in a few factories, and a faint smell of rotting fish often wafts over the district from the wastes of wholesale food businesses.
The area, which is dotted with vacant, often garbage-strewn lots, is poor, black and Hispanic. The eastern third of the neighborhood, across from a housing project, is mostly black, while the western portion is more Hispanic. At the northern edge of the district, Hasidic families have bought buildings or put up new ones, while students and artists, recent arrivals, live in converted factories scattered throughout the area.
The indifference to voting in the 79th does not rest on a lack of issues. There are tensions. Some longtime residents say that Hasidic landlords are evicting apartment dwellers; others praise the Hasidim for making the streets safer and providing new construction jobs for newly arriving Mexicans. Some black residents, in turn, say the new Hispanic immigrants are driving down wages, while Hispanics counter that they worry about blacks from the projects attacking them.
There are the problems on the street, too. Two weeks before the primary, Anthony Sanchez, a 26-year-old bank teller with an easy smile and quiet voice, sat on a couch with his brother-in-law, Willie Sepulveda, in a Walworth Street apartment building that he shares with his mother, father, sister and her family. Mr. Sanchez propped open the door to let in a little light, and a little air.
Both men, neither of whom voted in the recent primary or in the 1998 general election, expressed frustration about the neighborhood. Mr. Sepulveda, who repairs parking meters for the city, said teenagers from the nearby housing projects sometimes fired guns and scared residents. Both men complained about people parking cars on the curb and playing loud music. Prostitutes congregate at the far end of the street, they say, hidden by industrial buildings, and trucks illegally dump garbage on the sidewalks at night.
But the two disagree about what to do. Mr. Sepulveda, pointing to Mayor Giuliani's quality-of-life campaign, argues that people should vote, because politicians can influence street-level problems.
"If people got more involved, I think things would happen," he said. "But they have ignored the problems, so they are just increasing."
Mr. Sanchez -- who registered to vote in 1992 when he attended the Technical Career Institute and said he tried to keep up with the political news -- sees the day-to-day problems of the 79th as below politicians' radar. His perspective may help explain the rarity of voting in the 79th.
"To solve those problems, people in the neighborhood must change their behavior," Mr. Sanchez said. "The politicians, they don't get into people's business like that. They can't stop people from playing music too loud. They deal with fiscal issues, bigger issues."
George Nordike has no doubts about the power of the ballot. One of the handful of dedicated voters in the district, he and his wife, Hattie, cast 2 of the district's 24 ballots in the 1998 general election. In that year's primary, they cast 2 of the district's depressingly low total of 4 votes. Mr. Nordike, 82, has lived at 113 Sandford Street for 41 years, and has always voted a straight Democratic ticket, deviating only to support Gov. George E. Pataki because of his strong support of the death penalty.
Mr. Nordike does not hold it against his neighbors that they do not vote. Maybe they don't have time, he suggested. Or maybe they cannot make it to the polling place, which is in the projects across Nostrand Avenue. (Some white and Hispanic residents say they are scared to go there.)
But he plans to vote in November, as always. "I just do my part," he said.
One cool evening last month, Allen Ramkhelawan sat behind his desk at Quick Money Rescue Real Estate on Myrtle Avenue and pointed to a second-floor apartment across the street.
"You want to know why people don't vote?" he said. "Look at that flag out there. That tells the story."
From the fire escape, a resident had hung a red, white and green Mexican flag.
"There are a lot of people here who don't care two hoots who gets elected as long as they don't send the Mexicans back to Mexico," Mr. Ramkhelawan said.
He said he had no problem with the Mexicans. Indeed, he said, the influx of residents is good for the neighborhood and has prompted the growth of new businesses. "The street is starting to wake up," he said. "It used to be a run-down slum."
At one business, La Flor Bakery, across the street from Mr. Ramkhelawan's place, his point about the flag is regularly made. Every morning, the older residents who come into the bakery do talk politics, said Nancy Gonzalez, who owns the store with her husband, Gustavo Amigon. But it is not American politics.
"When people talk politics, they basically talk about Cuba and about Mexico, about the new president," said Ms. Gonzalez, who was born in the United States to a Guatemalan mother and a Salvadoran father.
The reason, she said, is that for them this country is just a way station.
"A few of my customers have just disappeared," she said. "I asked their friends where they went and they said home. The money they make here they send back to build their houses. When their houses are done they move back to Mexico."
Even some immigrants with no specific plan to return home cling to their foreign citizenship. Liz Hodgson Johnson, who is Hispanic, emigrated from Nicaragua in 1981 and has lived on Nostrand Avenue ever since.
She has several reasons for not becoming an American citizen. She cannot afford the $250 citizenship application fee, she said, and she cannot take time off from work to stand in line at the Immigration and Naturalization Service. She does not follow politics much, she added, and has a low opinion of politicians. "Sometimes I am so glad I don't have to vote and choose one of them," she said.
But there is something more that stops her. She feels like a Nicaraguan, not an American. Her ultimate loyalty is to her roots, Nicaragua.
"I was born there," she said. "That is who I am."
People like Ms. Johnson frustrate Hector Almestica, pastor of Inglesia de Dios Pentecostal, a storefront church on Myrtle Avenue, who encourages "the stay-ons" to become citizens. But for many parishioners, deciding to pursue citizenship is only the first hurdle.
Juan Oropeza, 55, a Mexican parishioner, used to vote in Mexico and would like to do so here.
"It's much better to be a citizen," he said in Spanish. "My family would have more rights."
But he has twice taken, and twice failed, the English language and citizenship test. With his jet-black hair cresting into tufts of white, he fears he is too old to learn English.
"I've been taking English classes for three years, but I can't get it into my head," he said.
In the 19th century, political machines made it their business to turn immigrants like Mr. Oropeza into citizens. Precinct captains fluent in the newcomers' languages would help them through the paperwork, in return for their loyalty. By the 1890's, nearly 80 percent of eligible voters in cities participated.
But the secret ballot, patronage restrictions and other election law changes dampened the incentive for political clubs to convert immigrants into citizens. The changes, meant to root out corruption and temper workers' voting power, sharply reduced urban voter participation in the early 1900's.
As a result, politicians today do little to find new voters, said Frances Fox Piven, professor of political science at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York and author of "Why Americans Still Don't Vote" (Beacon Press, 2000). The strategy is clear. In New York, with few people voting in primaries, a candidate who turns out a handful of loyal supporters can win.
"We have a long history that shows professional politicians are not trying to raise turnout," Dr. Piven said. "No matter what we are taught in political science courses."
Dressed all in black except for her white-framed sunglasses, Judy K. Thomas stood on the roof of her loft and looked south over the 79th Election District.
"People ask me what neighborhood this is," Ms. Thomas said. "I tell them it's the crossroads of three neighborhoods. Williamsburg to the north. Bed-Stuy to the east. Clinton Hill to the west. It's never been a neighborhood itself."
Ms. Thomas, 40, a sculptor with dyed blond hair and bright red lipstick, did not vote in the 1998 election. She thinks that for many in the district, the failure to vote is linked to the fractured nature of the area.
"You have a few artists, a few blacks, a few Hispanics, and now a few Hasidim," Ms. Thomas said. "But no one is talking to each other. There is no sense of community."
Some politicians say the entire 54th Assembly District, which passes through six neighborhoods, has the same difficulty.
"Bushwick doesn't know Williamsburg," said City Councilman Martin Malave Dilan, who represents Bushwick and has twice run for the 54th Assembly seat. "Cypress Hills doesn't know East New York. It makes it difficult to form coalitions. It makes it difficult for voters to hold representatives accountable."
The State Legislature redraws Senate, Assembly and Congressional districts every 10 years, when the new census data become available. Two principles govern the process. First, the parties try to protect incumbents, by eliminating from a district those pockets where support is weak. Second, under the federal Voting Rights Act, state lawmakers must not dilute minority groups' voting power.
In New York City, the result of these dual pursuits has sometimes been twisting, rambling districts that ignore the geographic, religious, ethnic and other characteristics of a neighborhood. For the 79th District, the oddity is that a minority-group protection law has played a role in making a nonwhite area less cohesive and, therefore, less politically active.
The result can be a vicious cycle. With so few voters, a campaign stop in the 79th might well seem a waste to candidates. But the resulting lack of political presence in the district -- even in late September there were few campaign posters to be seen -- makes residents resentful and even less politically attuned.
Alienation is the result.
"I am too disappointed to vote," said Ms. Gonzalez, the bakery owner, as she cleaned the counter at the close of the day. "I would bother if they paid attention. I don't want to seem that I don't care. But why do I want to put the effort in if no one is listening? It's like talking to a wall."
Ms. Gonzalez thinks city politicians spend their efforts sprucing up Manhattan tourist areas, leaving poor areas to fend for themselves with no city assistance.
Mr. Sanchez, the bank teller, had a similar thought last spring, when he happened upon a rally for Senator John McCain, the presidential candidate, in Lower Manhattan. Seeing such a prominent politician in person excited him, and he began to wonder why he never saw any politicians, even local ones, in his area.
"They should have a day when they come to the neighborhood and you can meet with them and speak your mind," he said.
At 6:15 p.m. on primary day, Israel Vazquez, 77, who along with the Nordikes was one of the four primary voters in 1998, walked up to the 79th District polling place to cast the 10th vote. As he left, Mr. Dixon, the poll worker, balanced his lanky frame in a small chair and resumed his impatient wait.
"I feel like going into the street and dragging my voters in," Mr. Dixon said.
Ms. Ingram, his partner, looked up from the word puzzle she was doing and gave him a smile.
"We have till 9 o'clock," she said. "We are going to have 20 people."
Her prediction was not necessarily a stretch. After all, this year's election had rematches of two close races in the 1998 primary: an ultimately unsuccessful challenge by Barry Ford, a Harvard-educated lawyer, to Congressman Edolphus Towns, and Mr. Dilan's failed bid to unseat Mr. Towns's son, Assemblyman Darryl Towns.
But Ms. Ingram's optimism proved misplaced. When the poll closed at 9, out of the 149 registered voters in the 79th District, only 11 ballots were cast.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: 2:45 P.M., Primary Day, 79th Election District Polling Place, Brooklyn. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 1); The 79th Election District is nine blocks of engine repair shops and battered brick homes. Its people are largely black and Hispanic, with Hasidim moving in recently, along with students and artists, who live in the converted factories that dot the area. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 15)
 
Chart: "79TH ELECTION DISTRICT -- Few Voters . . ."
Voter turnout as a percentage of registered voters.
 
New York City
1996 ELECTION (PRESIDENTIAL YEAR): 57.5%
REGISTERED VOTERS: 3.5 million
 
Brooklyn
1996 ELECTION (PRESIDENTIAL YEAR): 52.9%
REGISTERED VOTERS: 1 million
 
54th Assembly District
1996 ELECTION (PRESIDENTIAL YEAR): 39.3%
REGISTERED VOTERS: 52,000
 
79th Election District
1996 ELECTION (PRESIDENTIAL YEAR): 21.3%
REGISTERED VOTERS: 188
 
New York City
1998 ELECTION: 44.9%
REGISTERED VOTERS: 3.4 million
 
Brooklyn
1998 ELECTION: 42.7%
REGISTERED VOTERS: 1 million
 
54th Assembly District
1998 ELECTION: 28.1%
REGISTERED VOTERS: 52,000
 
79th Election District
1998 ELECTION: 13.3%
REGISTERED VOTERS: 181
 
Total population
79th District and vicinity*: 1,060
New York City: 7.4 million
 
Black
79th District and vicinity*: 57%
New York City: 29%
 
White
79th District and vicinity*: 22%
New York City: 51%
 
Hispanic
79th District and vicinity*: 49%
New York City: 29%
 
Median age
79th District and vicinity*: 28.8
New York City: 35.4
 
Median household income
79th District and vicinity*: $18,157
New York City: $40,989
 
Unemployment rate
79th District and vicinity*: 6.3%
New York City: 8.6%
 
White-collar workers
79th District and vicinity*: 36%
New York City: 65%
 
Blue-collar workers
79th District and vicinity*: 64%
New York City: 35%
 
High school diploma or higher
79th District and vicinity*: 63%
New York City: 76%
 
Vacant dwelling units
79th District and vicinity*: 16%
New York City: 6%
 
*There is no data for just the 79th District: these figures also encompass nine adjacent blocks.
 
(Source: Census Bureau estimates for 1997, the most recent year for which the bureau has full data.)(pg. 15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (94%); VOTERS & VOTING (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); POLITICS (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (73%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (51%); CITIZENSHIP (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



24 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Taking A Chance On Takeover Candidates

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
THE triple threat of big-league corporate earnings warnings, signs of an economic slowdown and elevated oil prices has made the stock market an exceedingly frustrating place of late. What's an investor to do?
Play the takeover game. That's the advice of Charles LaLoggia, editor of the Superstock Investor newsletter in Rochester. "We've reached the point where I don't think investors are going to get much help from the economy or from earnings in general," Mr. LaLoggia said. "If you're going to pick stocks, you look for companies in consolidating industries, where there's a certain catalyst that can reasonably lead to a takeover bid." 
 Mr. LaLoggia identifies stocks selling below the value of their assets and not dependent on a rising stock market. That strategy has netted him roughly one takeover a month for the last four years. Forty companies are typically on his recommended list.
This year, eight of Mr. LaLoggia's recommended stocks have received buyout bids, including Advest, Dexter and Pittway.
While pinpointing buyout candidates may seem chancy, the way Mr. LaLoggia does it is fairly conservative. Many companies he recommends are trading well off their highs. Two carry yields of more than 4 percent, versus the 1.1 percent dividend on the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Many have been dumped by the Wall Street herd. Here are some of his picks:
* Houghton Mifflin, the textbook and educational publisher, has dropped in price in recent weeks after downgrades from analysts. But Mr. LaLoggia says the company may benefit from a recent takeover wave in the publishing industry. Scholastic bought Grolier last April, and McGraw-Hill acquired the educational publishing business of the Tribune Company last month. Harcourt General put itself on the block in July. "If there are multiple bidders, a number of them are going to be left at the altar," Mr. LaLoggia said. "Is it a stretch to think they might look at Houghton Mifflin?" The stock closed on Friday at $39.25, down from a high in August of $51.81.
* Alliance Capital Management Holdings is 57 percent owned by the Axa Group of France, which recently sold its holdings in Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette and Axa Financial. Mr. LaLoggia thinks Alliance Capital will either be the next to be sold or will be bought out by Axa. "It doesn't make sense for it to be hanging out there as a separate company," he said. Alliance shares closed the week at $50.13.
* American States Water may benefit from consolidation in the water utility industry. European water companies have been acquiring American ones, and as Mr. LaLoggia pointed out, only a handful of public companies that sell water remain. "Some of these water utilities are as close as you can get to a free lunch," he said. "They're safe, they have high yields and they are takeover candidates." The stock closed at $30.25, while its takeover value is around $45, Mr. LaLoggia said.
* The Performance Food Group distributes food to restaurants nationwide. The industry has been shrinking as two giants, Royal Ahold and Sysco, have battled for the No. 1 spot by buying up smaller distributors. Performance Food closed on Friday at $37.63, or 23 times its recent earnings per share.
* Midway Games, a maker of video games, is a slightly more speculative play, Mr. LaLoggia said. The stock has fallen 71 percent this year (closing on Friday at $7) as consumers, awaiting the latest technology from game console makers, have held off on buying new games. Sumner N. Redstone, the Viacom chairman, owns 28 percent of Midway and has been buying its shares in the open market. With the stock down, Mr. LaLoggia said, "If Sumner has thought about buying this company out, there's never been a better chance to buy than now."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "In the Buyout Bin"
Friday's close
CompanyAlliance Capital: $ 50.13
American States Water: 30.25
Houghton-Mifflin: 39.25
Midway Games: 7.00
Performance Food: 37.63

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CS (PAR) (82%); AXJ (ASX) (82%); AXA (BIT) (82%); AWR (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (82%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (82%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%); NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (51%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AXA (82%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (52%); AMERICAN STATES WATER CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAKEOVERS (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING (86%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSERVATISM (69%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (62%); 

PERSON: CHARLES LALOGGIA (97%); SUMNER N REDSTONE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



25 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Ecuador's Electricity Meets Global Power

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
THIS is a story about the search for corporate citizenship, and a cautionary tale of money, influence and the limits of American power.
The tale begins in 1925 in Augusta, Me., where a local company provocatively named American Foreign Power and Electric legally incorporated a subsidiary, the Electric Company of Ecuador (Emelec by its Spanish acronym), to serve the rapidly growing city of Guayaquil. 
 It's a long way from Maine to Ecuador, but such was the reach of Yankee business ingenuity in those pre-globalization days. Foreign Power had already set up similar, quite lucrative companies in Argentina, Bolivia, Chile and Cuba. All were acquired in 1960 by Boise Cascade, the forest products company, which was interested because American Foreign Power had originally burned wood for fuel.
The Ecuadorian operation thrived for years, even after the government started regulating its rates. Then, in the mid-1980's, disputes began flaring. The American owners said they could no longer charge enough to cover costs; the government said Emelec was not meeting the terms of its concession.
In binding arbitration, the company won a ruling that the government had broken the 1925 contract and owed Emelec $52 million. The government refused to pay.
While this dispute simmered, Emelec changed hands several times, eventually coming under the control of a Bahamas-based entity owned by an Ecuadorian tycoon named Fernando Aspiazu who has been in trouble with his government. Yet it remained an American corporation, filing an American tax return each year, though it hasn't reported a profit or paid a dollar in taxes since 1985.
Now the story takes a twist. Mr. Aspiazu also happened to own a bank in Ecuador, the Banco del Progreso, which failed in 1999. To recapitalize the bank, he took steps to sell stock in his power company, which he placed in a trust.
The government of Ecuador seized the bank before the sale, and arrested Mr. Aspiazu. (He has not been charged, but remains in jail.) Mr. Aspiazu then tried to keep the power company's assets out of government hands by creating another trust to sell Emelec's assets and repay thousands of angry bank depositors. An American, Peter Heberling of the Latin America Finance Group, was named the sole trustee, and William Van Dieppen, president of the group, planned to help with the liquidation.
Mr. Aspiazu's motives are less than clear, but he seemed to think he could act like Robin Hood. "More than 500,000 families are affected by the bank's failure," Mr. Van Dieppen said. "Making sure they get repaid can't hurt Aspiazu's chances of having his name rehabilitated."
Any American investor lured by Latin America's promise fears corruption and complication, which go hand in hand. Ecuador is one of South America's least stable countries, and early this year things really started to come apart. The economy was in such a shambles that the president, Jamil Mahuad, tried to scrap its currency in favor of dollars, but people took to the streets, the army took the Presidential Palace and Mr. Mahuad took off for quieter quarters.
As the dust was settling, Mr. Van Dieppen was talking to four potential American buyers for Emelec, including Enron. But the new president of Ecuador, Gustavo Noboa, needed to send a message that things had changed in the country for people like Mr. Aspiazu. He sent troops and the police to seize Emelec headquarters in Guayaquil.
The company appealed to the American embassy in Quito, only to be told that Emelec, the direct descendant of American Foreign Power, was not considered an American corporation. "The State Department did not do its homework," Mr. Van Dieppen said, adding that he thought that the ambassador, Gwen Clare, had sided with the Ecuadorian government. Mr. Van Dieppen said his calls to the ambassador and the State Department were not returned. "We felt totally abandoned," he said.
Mr. Van Dieppen then turned to the one tried-and-true fallback for any company anywhere in the world: he hired lawyers to push Emelec's interests in Washington. He went to Capitol Hill and lined up the support of Senator Jesse Helms. For a time he also paid Kissinger McLarty Associates, the high-octane Washington consulting firm led by Henry Kissinger and Thomas F. McLarty III, President Clinton's former chief of staff, to intervene.
The investment in influence apparently paid off. On Aug. 28, Ms. Clare said in a letter that the dispute had been raised by Secretary of State Madeleine Albright during a visit to Ecuador. "The government of Ecuador should quickly and fairly sort out the competing claims on Emelec's assets," Ms. Clare wrote, adding that she looked forward to working with the trust.
A State Department official familiar with the case said the embassy's initial reaction was based on a mistrust of Mr. Aspiazu's role. But after Senator Helms's office and Emelec's lawyers and representatives in Washington expressed interest, department officials decided to take another look. "Some things could have been resolved faster," the official conceded. "But these guys had a lot of things on their platter."
He was alluding to the new administration led by Mr. Noboa, who also seems to have changed his position. When he was victoriously touring Emelec's seized offices, he brushed off reporters' questions about constitutional violations, declaring, "I have to do what I need to do -- impose order on this country." But in a recent speech to New York investors, he seemed almost contrite, saying that the confidence of American investors, which Ecuador desperately needs, is being restored because the nation is "beginning to change."
In the end, what happened to American Foreign Power exposes some of the rules of global influence game as it is now played.
"Never assume that the United States government is necessarily going to be on your side in your hour of need," Mr. Van Dieppen said. Without top-notch representation in Washington, he said, "no one is going to take you seriously" there.
Or in Guayaquil, either, it seems.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gustavo Noboa, president of Ecuador

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: ECUADOR (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); BOLIVIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); BAHAMAS (79%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (92%); 

CITY: AUGUSTA, ME, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANCO DEL PROGRESO SA (53%); STATE DEPARTMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); BOLIVIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); BAHAMAS (79%); CHILE (79%); MAINE, USA (92%); AUGUSTA, ME, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); BUSINESS INCORPORATIONS (78%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ARRESTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (69%); BANK FAILURES (68%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (68%); CORRUPTION (67%); FAMILY (60%); 

PERSON: FERNANDO ASPIAZU (90%); VAN DIEPPEN (85%); GWEN CLARE (60%); JAMIL MAHUAD (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



26 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Fewer Strings Attached;
The World's Bankers Try Giving Money, Not Lessons

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: PRAGUE

 BODY:
A snapshot from Prague: One cool, hazy night, a day after black-masked anarchists attacked police lines and rattled delegates to the meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, Horst Kohler and James D. Wolfensohn, respectively the new managing director of the I.M.F. and the World Bank president, stood at an outdoor ceremony with fixed smiles on their faces.
Jubilee 2000, a leading pressure group for third-world debt relief, presented them with a petition, and gave them a dressing down. ' 
 'Your declarations have proven to be empty promises once again," one speaker scolded. The two officials vowed to do better and left shaking hands.
Just a decade ago leading economists in the United States and Europe settled on a new strategy for fighting poverty. In return for long-term loans, poor nations got mandatory lessons in capitalism, what might be called the teach-a-man-to-trade theory of aid.
It seemed like a great solution at the time. After the fall of Communism, poor nations hungered for unbridled capitalism. And the industrial countries had more energy for lecturing than they did money for traditional aid, which plummeted in the 1990's.
But as Prague sweeps up the shattered shop window glass left over from the violence-plagued meeting of global aid agencies last week, one thing has become clear: The old way of thinking is now economically debatable and politically untouchable.
In its place is emerging a new consensus about helping the poor that shifts some of the burden to the rich. It has the potential to raise living standards, but will cost a great deal more money.
The new consensus has three main elements. First, loans are fine, but grants are better, especially for humanitarian projects like fighting AIDS and malaria. The World Bank and other development agencies keep even their low-interest loans on their books as assets. Grants, however, are write-offs, and will require more cash infusions from donor countries if the aid agencies want to preserve their capital.
Second, debt relief must come faster and be more generous. There are 41 nations eligible for debt relief, whose average debt load is 125 percent of their gross domestic product. Rich nations have begun a slow process of relieving this crushing burden, but the drumbeat to forgive much more of the third world's debt is deafening for government ministers, who seem to up their pledges with every anti-globalization riot.
Third, trade is a two-way street. There is broad agreement that poor nations have done more than their fair share to free up trade, and the pressure is on rich nations to open their markets wider to the things poor countries make.
For Europe and Japan, that means lowering the wall protecting their farmers. For the United States, it means a showdown with the influential textile and sugar lobbies.
The betting is that these kinds of changes will throw a lifeline to the world's poorest people, defined as those earning $2 or less a day. They number a staggering 3 billion, roughly half the world's population.
The World Bank acknowledges that the poor in Africa, Latin America and the former Soviet Union did not benefit much from the roaring prosperity of the 1990's. They may eventually benefit from the almost universal shift toward market economics, but that has not happened yet.
The new thinking aims for more immediate results. Easing debt loads, handing out grants directly to villages, clinics and schools, and providing more export opportunities for the crops grown and the shirts stitched by the poorest workers could help. But there will be a price to pay.
"We have to tackle the selfishness of wealthy countries," says Mr. Kohler. "This is a question of morals."
And of expediency. The I.M.F. and the World Bank, its fellow Washington-based global lender, have been front-line targets of the anti-globalization movement that has spread from Seattle to Washington and Prague.
But Mr. Kohler and Mr. Wolfensohn are edging closer to their critics, even pandering a little. Though they still espouse free market capitalism, they argue for a humane approach to poverty relief that puts developing nations in charge and cuts some strings attached to aid.
When the aid experts talked about economic overhauls in Prague, they were as often calling for changes in wealthy nations as for the 90's-formula medicine prescribed to the poor.
Their message is: We want to fight poverty more effectively, but it will only work if industrial countries dip into their pockets and challenge their entrenched domestic interests on trade and, by extension, on employment.
"The globalization battle is really about the parsimony of the G-7," said Trevor A. Manuel, South Africa's finance minister, who chaired the Prague sessions. He was referring to the United States, Japan, Britain, France, Germany, Italy and Canada, members of the Group of 7 developed countries.
Financial leaders from rich nations are beginning to feel the heat, and they are touting their own anti-poverty strategies.
Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers, who said in Prague that the poverty battle has become "the overarching economic and humanitarian challenge of our time," proposed last week that the World Bank replace some loans with outright grants, a first. The proposal echoed a key demand made by a Congressional commission that recently criticized the bank as a feckless anachronism.
Trouble is, Congress is still practicing tough love. American foreign aid declined an average of 8 percent annually in the 1990's. The average American had $42 of his taxes devoted to foreign aid in 1993, and $32 in 1998, according to World Bank figures. The United States is the stingiest rich nation, but aid declined in many European countries as they tightened their budgets for monetary union.
With the backlash against globalization mounting, the next president will probably have to figure out a way to persuade lawmakers to provide more aid and debt relief, even while making politically tricky compromises on trade. It will be a hard sell, but Mr. Kohler of the I.M.F. says he has the solution.
"It will be very helpful," he says with a smile, "when these groups that have been attacking us turn their attention to the Congress."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A rickshaw driver in Calcutta takes cover under a plastic sheet. (Agence France-Presse); An elderly woman begging in La Paz, Bolivia. (Associated Press); A 1-year-old girl suffering from malnutrition in a Turkish shantytown. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BOLIVIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (78%); 

STATE: WEST BENGAL, INDIA (56%); 

CITY: KOLKATA, INDIA (78%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BOLIVIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (78%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (56%); KOLKATA, INDIA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MALARIA (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LOBBYING (74%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (69%); AIDS & HIV (51%); 

PERSON: HORST KOHLER (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



27 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Debatable;
What to Do With All That Money

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE presidential debates of 1960 are best remembered today for the contrast between a tanned, youthful-looking John F. Kennedy and a pasty, sweaty-looking Richard M. Nixon.
What has been forgotten is that the 1960 debates were also the last occasions on which two presidential candidates argued at length about what to do with a government surplus, and whether it made sense to pay down America's debts. 
 It has been 40 years since a surplus intersected with a presidential election (though there was one balanced budget, in 1969) and far, far longer since there was any hope of paying off a debt that has now swelled to $3.63 trillion.
Yet what to do with that opportunity will likely dominate Tuesday night's arguments, when Gov. George W. Bush and Vice President Al Gore face off. Mr. Bush has not backed off a tax cut plan that has made some in his party so queasy that they have come up with their own, more modest proposals. And Mr. Gore has learned that even if paying down the national debt is, as one of his advisers puts it, "an eat-your-broccoli message," it seems to be registering in the polls.
In their more candid moments, Mr. Gore's strategists concede that the Clinton administration stumbled into debt reduction. Mr. Clinton used a State of the Union address to declare that America's mission was to "save Social Security first," which was little more than a tactic for fending off Republican tax cuts. It worked.
"To this day," said Robert L. Bixby, executive director of the Concord Coalition, a bipartisan fiscal watchdog group, "most people still don't understand that using the surplus to shore up Social Security just means debt reduction."
He's right. Since the government doesn't have a savings account, any money that doesn't get spent is automatically used to buy back outstanding debt. (This may be the first time an accounting rule created a huge political following.) And it is not getting spent precisely because of that much-maligned Washington trait: gridlock.
"There is nothing more American than to say your budget should be balanced and you should be paying off your debts," said Robert Reischauer, president of the Urban Institute and a former director of the Congressional Budget Office. "But of course, what debt reduction really does is keep the money out of the hands of the other party, to spend on its priorities. It's everyone's second choice."
True, but a very popular second choice. So popular that both Democrats and Republicans in the House overwhelmingly approved legislation two weeks ago that would commit this year's surpluses to pay down debt. And President Clinton, beating the drum for his own legacy and Mr. Gore's candidacy, stepped out of the White House on Wednesday morning armed with a big magic marker to declare that the government's fiscal year was ending with a $230 billion surplus -- and that all but $7 billion of it would be used to pay down debt.
That puts the United States on track to paying off the debt by 2012, Mr. Clinton said. By remarkable coincidence, Mr. Gore's plan sets the same date.
Mr. Bush's plan would also pay off the debt, only in 2016. But he doesn't talk about it much, preferring instead to dwell on tax cuts that seem drawn from the playbook of Ronald Reagan.
Meanwhile, as Mr. Gore continues to portray himself as the man who will lift the debt off the shoulders of the nation's children, Mr. Bush has to make the case that under his plan Americans can have their big tax cuts and eat their debt, too.
"Bush is caught caught between a rock and a hard place," said Mr. Reischauer, "because he wants to establish individual accounts for Social Security, and those will be funded out of the Social Security surplus. So there will be less debt paydown."
Mr. Bush's advisers, not surprisingly, look at the numbers differently, arguing that Mr. Gore's surplus is a phantom that will disappear after Election Day. Mr. Gore, meanwhile, is betting on the analogy he believes Americans will make between debt reduction and the way they would like to manage their own household budgets. "No one can relate to a $2 trillion budget," Mr. Bixby said. "But they can understand that when you have a big expense coming up -- kids going to college, or retirement -- it makes sense to get rid of your debts."
Here it is the voters, not the politicians, who may be engaging in election-year hypocrisy. One of the strongest arguments for paying down the government's debt is that Americans are running up their private debts. And the two are related: If the government and its citizens are both borrowing, they are competing for the same cash. That sends interest rates higher.
There are other virtues in paying down the debt. If the economy turns down sometime in the next few years, Washington will have more room to stimulate the economy, either with tax cuts or spending. Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers calls that "loading the cannon," and warns of the dangers of shooting it off too early.
But other economists make the case that too much debt reduction can be, well, too much of a good thing.
Virtuous as paying down the debt may be, it is not necessarily the best use of the government's money. Mr. Bush's tax cuts could, arguably, put more money in the stock market, where it would be available to old and new companies for research and new technologies. (If those cuts come too soon, though, they could also overstimulate an economy and a stock market that many fear is still flying too high, forcing the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates even more.) Or maybe the return on investment would be better if the money was spent on education. After all, a well-trained software engineer -- or 10 million of them -- can foster a lot of growth.
So in the end, perhaps the most interesting question for Tuesday's debate won't even be asked. It is, to be fair, a technical query: What is the optimal debt for the United States? Elections don't often turn on arcane arguments over such issues. The country's economic future, however, may.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Ray Bartkus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); TAX LAW (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (71%); APPROVALS (70%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (92%); AL GORE (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); RICHARD NIXON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



28 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 2; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2078 words

HEADLINE: What's Entertainment? That Depends ...

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA KUEHL

 BODY:
REMEMBER what fun it was rushing Snowball to the vet after he gulped down a badminton birdie? Hey, you protest, that was not fun. Nevertheless, that's entertainment, according to the United States government.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics, which annually surveys Americans about their spending habits, includes veterinary expenses in its "entertainment" category. Not classified as entertainment: reading, dining out and using a home computer, omissions that might give the bibliophile, the gourmand and the chat-room addict pause. The bureau also leaves out gambling, which some experts say is the most popular outside-the-home recreation in America. 
 The bureau's sometimes curious choices prompt the question: What is entertainment, anyway? And what factors -- genetic, geographic, chronologic, socioeconomic -- determine that some people, like Beth Henderson of Ashford, Conn., meet their entertainment needs through contemplative pursuits like reading and gardening, while others, like Rina Isaac of White Plains, embrace pulse-pounding activities like mountain biking and archery? What impels Dr. Alfred Scherzer of Hampton Bays, N.Y., to travel to Somalia to gaze at maribou storks, or Donald Wayne of Piscataway, N.J., to amass 100,000 postcards, including one made out of kangaroo skin?
Social scientists say the human hunger for entertainment may be as old as society itself. "I don't know that we have any sort of archaeological evidence of entertainment, per se," said Daniel Fessler, an assistant professor of anthropology at the University of California at Los Angeles, whose research fields include evolutionary psychology and psychological anthropology. "But what we do have is the observation that all known human societies have entertainment of some fashion, and that suggests that it's very old indeed."
A society without entertainment "would be a pretty frightening thing," said Frank A. Salamone, a professor of sociology at Iona College in New Rochelle, N.Y., and the author of "Society, Culture, Leisure and Play: An Anthropological Reference" (University Press of America, 2000).
Entertainment "lets us dream," he said.
"It's imagination," he added. "Play at its best gives us a million options."
As a noun, "play" commonly refers to the games of children. Adults, too old to zip into playsuits, instead put on "leisure wear" to "recreate." But whether it's called leisure, recreation or entertainment, when an activity is "nonproductive, in other words, the aim is not a product, the aim is the experience," that's play, and adults need to do it, said John R. Kelly, a sociologist and the author of 11 books about leisure.
"We are working creatures, we are bonding creatures," he said, "and we are playing creatures."
In the New York metropolitan statistical area -- which includes New York City, Westchester, Long Island, most of northern and central New Jersey, and southwestern Connecticut -- households spent an average of $1,835 annually on entertainment in 1997-98, according to the Consumer Expenditure Survey conducted by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
That number, though, is misleadingly low. Besides pet care, the bureau's list of entertainments includes movies and sporting events; hobbies, toys and games; television sets, videos and stereos; and sporting and exercise equipment. But add items like dining out, alcoholic beverages and reading, and the amount jumps to almost $5,200 a year, or more than 10 percent of the average household's pretax income. Add still more -- lottery tickets, Internet access, the incalculable costs of recreational shopping, and major investments, like the room Mr. Wayne added onto his New Jersey home to accommodate his collections -- and entertainment costs can soar.
In some years, Dr. Scherzer, 71, spends more than $5,000 to watch birds in exotic locales. In 35 years as a birder, Dr. Scherzer said, he has logged between 1,500 and 2,000 species. A practicing pediatrician and emeritus professor of pediatrics at Cornell Medical College, he is a co-president of the Moriches Bay Audubon Society, which has more than 750 members and covers a territory extending from Patchogue to the tip of the South Fork.
According to Dr. Kelly, who is a co-author with Rodney B. Warnick of "Recreation Trends and Markets: The 21st Century" (Sagamore, 1999), bird-watching is increasingly popular, especially among older adults, a population that grows with each aging baby boomer. In New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, membership in National Audubon Society chapters has climbed almost 17 percent in the last decade, to nearly 72,000, an Audubon Society spokesman said.
Economics, education, sex, religion, family background and age all influence entertainment choices. Up to 20 percent of Americans have no discretionary income for entertainment, while 10 percent can afford to spend "significant amounts" on fun, according to "Recreation Trends and Markets." Further, some Americans have little discretionary time, Dr. Kelly said, citing people who hold two jobs to support a family, mothers who shoulder a full-time job and take care of their families, too, and workers who may lose hours of recreation time to commuting.
Choices also spring from living in a particular time and place. "What was incredibly amusing in 1890 is now seen to be no longer funny, for the most part," said Dr. Salamone, the Iona professor. "See two minutes of a German film, and you know it's German. Broadly speaking, English jokes aren't funny in the United States, no matter what background people have. Why do the French like Jerry Lewis? I never understood that."
People also choose activities that balance their lives. "If you work in a steel mill all day, you don't rush out to play tennis when you leave the job," Dr. Kelly said. And for reasons that are still little understood, he said, some people are risk takers who like to play on the edge, others are intensely self-protective and need a comfort zone, and the majority fall between the two extremes.
Ms. Isaac, 38, who teaches first graders in Manhattan, said skiing, hiking, biking and archery help keep her balanced. "When I leave the city, I need to revive my soul," she said. "I make sure I am with nature."
The bow and arrow, which she took up three years ago, require a concentration and focus that send her deep into herself. "You only hear your pulse, your heartbeat -- you can feel your sweat," she said. "It's a competition between my physical self and my mind."
Ms. Isaac said one benefit from her archery is a new identity. "People call me Rina the Archer, Pocahontas," she said. "They say, 'The wild woman is here.' People see you on another level: 'Hey, that person shoots, and that's awesome.' "
If archers inspire awe, couch potatoes draw sneers. But watching television remains Americans' prime pastime at night, a Gallup Poll reported in March 1999. Results of another Gallup Poll in January show that 57 percent of Americans watch three or more hours of television a day.
Television delivers story after story, feeding the human need for narrative, which, along with dance, is a universal form of entertainment, said Dr. Fessler of U.C.L.A. Some theorists say that entertainment, like cooking, may be a tradition passed down from ancestral societies. But Dr. Fessler said it may instead be an evolved psychology, a desire that became embedded in the human mind through evolution.
Unfortunately, Dr. Fessler said, evolved psychologies can become insatiable. "If you could afford it, and I guess some people can," he said, "you can just plug yourself into entertainment all of your waking hours and never leave the house."
Meanwhile, more narratives await at the local multiplex. Between 1989 and 1999, the number of movie screens in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut rose 60 percent, to 3,470, according to the National Association of Theater Owners. Box offices nationwide took in $7.49 billion in 1999, and Americans spent an additional $17.36 billion renting and buying movies, according to the Video Software Dealers Association.
Luckily for literacy, the stories on library shelves still beckon. According to "Recreation Trends and Markets," more than 90 million adult Americans read books, and the number is rising. In early September, Ms. Henderson, 57, said she was reading six: a memoir, a biography, a travelogue, two local histories and a Harry Potter. A former teacher and school administrator who is now a sculptor, Ms. Henderson said that she spent $75 to $100 a month on newspapers, magazines and books, and combed the library stacks in Ashford and Mansfield, Conn., for free riches. "One of the things I like about reading is that it really promotes the use of your imagination, a lot more than watching a movie, for example," she said.
In contrast, gambling, which Professors Kelly and Warnick describe as "the largest single 'recreation' activity outside the home," doesn't so much promote imagination as feed off it, as gamblers imagine themselves rich.
Their imaginations were working overtime in 1999 as Americans wagered more than $742 billion, according to an industry analyst, Christiansen Capital Advisors. That's 99 times last year's national movie box-office receipts, and almost triple the amount people wagered in 1989.
In New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, dreamers spent $6.2 billion on lottery tickets in 1998-99, 73 percent more than a decade ago, according to figures provided by state lottery officials. And gamblers wagered $43.5 billion in Atlantic City casinos in 1999, about twice what they spent in 1989, according to New Jersey Casino Control Commission figures.
Gambling creates "a kind of an artificial excitement," Dr. Kelly said.
Gambling choices and styles vary. Some play bingo for fun, others buy lottery tickets out of financial desperation. "That isn't play," said Dr. Kelly. "That's waiting to be struck by lightning."
Gamblers and collectors are both treasure seekers, but collectors rarely go home empty-handed.
There are four clubs in New Jersey for postcard collectors, known as deltiologists, and Mr. Wayne belongs to three of them, including the Central Jersey Deltiological Society, of which he is president. A serious collector since the mid-1960's, Mr. Wayne, 65, said he went "a little berserk" over novelty cards. Besides the kangaroo-skin oddity, he owns cards made of Irish peat, celluloid, aluminum, leather, macerated money and woven silk.
But his acquisitive days are winding down, Mr. Wayne said, because even with the extra room, "the house is full." Still, a collector can dream. At a recent postcard show in Clark, N.J., Mr. Wayne pointed out a man who claimed to own a million cards. "People revere him as one of the icons of the postcard world," Mr. Wayne said. "At least, I do."
Somewhere in the United States is someone who collects just about every kind of object, Dr. Kelly said. Add up all the collections -- stamps, coins, rocks, bones, thimbles, Hummel figurines, comic books, ice cream scoops, barbed wire and everything else -- and "you probably have a fairly significant part of the adult population," he said.
Collectors form groups, attend meetings and publish journals. "The social aspects become very important," Dr. Kelly said.
Mr. Wayne, a retired math teacher who also collects slide rules and books about space, said he couldn't expect people to appreciate the thrill of postcards unless they saw his treasures. Even then they might not understand. Such passions develop over time, and the impulses behind them are often complex.
Although it is easy simply to mock somebody else's idea of fun, the Bureau of Labor Statistics contends that it has valid reasons for each omission from the Consumer Expenditure Survey's entertainment category.
For example, the bureau deems reading more informational than entertaining, said Bill Passero, a senior economist. Dining out is a subcategory under food, and gambling is a miscellaneous expenditure, Mr. Passero said, noting that many people regard it not as entertainment but as an investment with a possible return.
As for pet care, it's been part of entertainment (formerly "recreation") since at least 1950, according to bureau records. Where else would you put it? Mr. Passero wondered.
Mr. Wayne, for one, said the notion of pets as entertainment made sense. He and his wife have two Shetland sheepdogs. "They're a riot," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Felipe Galindo)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY PRESS OF AMERICA INC (52%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STATISTICS (77%); LITERATURE (76%); CHILDREN (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); CHAT ROOMS (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (70%); EXTREME SPORTS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); WRITERS (67%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); ARCHAEOLOGY (65%); ARCHERY (52%); CYCLING (52%); 

PERSON: DON JOHNSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



29 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 8; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 108 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFING: ECONOMY;
FUEL-PROOF PROSPERITY

BYLINE: By Anne Ruderman

 BODY:
Two Rutgers economists, speaking at their annual seminar for state officials and lobbyists in Trenton last week, said that soaring energy prices will not end the state's economic boom. Joseph Seneca, vice president of academic affairs at Rutgers and chairman of the Governor's Council of Economic Advisors, and James Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy, acknowledged that high energy prices historically touch off a recession. But "the New Jersey economy and national economy are much less dependent on energy than they were a decade ago and two decades ago," Mr. Seneca said.
 Anne Ruderman
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (57%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (58%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (58%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LOBBYING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); 

PERSON: JAMES E HUGHES SR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



30 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 14; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: Regulations on Park Rides Serve the Public

 BODY:

To the Editor:
With the dizzying heights and great speeds of modern amusement rides, patrons place a great deal of trust in the mechanics and operation of these devices. It is our job at the state Division of Codes and Standards to see that that trust is well placed. It was no accident that New Jersey just completed one of its safest amusement-ride seasons ever. We have strict standards and regular inspections. People who are strapped into these rides expect nothing less. 
 In a recent article ("A Bumpy Ride This Summer," Sept. 10), some amusement-ride operators complained that New Jersey's regulations go too far. We believe they should go even further. The state has nearly doubled the number of inspectors on staff, initiated surprise inspections to observe rides and operators in action, conducted engineering reviews of new rides and significantly increased penalties for violations of regulations.
But the deaths of a mother and daughter on a relatively tame amusement ride in 1999 indicated the need for additional steps. We are working with state lawmakers to develop legislation that would require greater accountability on the part of ride manufacturers and enable us to ensure that ride designs, especially new ones, are safe.
We recognize that amusement rides are a business, and that park owners and operators make a living from the thrills they provide to patrons. We also appreciate the impact of the amusement-ride industry on New Jersey's economy. That is why we are committed to processing ride applications within 30 days.
We do require that maintenance-operating manuals be supplied for each ride. Without them, it is impossible for the ride operators to keep the rides safe and impossible for our inspectors to thoroughly check them out. We don't view that as excessive "paperwork" or over-regulation. And we doubt that those who climb aboard these rides for fun and excitement do either.
 
JANE M. KENNY
Trenton
 
The writer is commissioner of the New Jersey Department of Community Affairs.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INSPECTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); WRITERS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); 

PERSON: PARK RIDES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



31 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 22; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 266 words

HEADLINE: A Suggestion Box For United Airlines

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Righting United Airlines: Nine Flight Plans" (Sept. 10), in which airline experts, professors and consumer advocates offered their ideas for solving the carrier's labor and service problems: 
 I disagree with Gerald Meyers, a University of Michigan professor, who, in criticizing United's employee stock ownership plan, said that "very few" ESOP's are successful.
I happen to be an employee-owner in an ESOP company, Scot Forge, a Spring Grove, Ill.-based manufacturer of open die and rolled ring forgings -- a true "heavy metal" industry. Just under 500 of us own two manufacturing plants in Illinois and one in Wisconsin. We are a 100 percent employee-owned company, through an ESOP established in 1978.
We are a very profitable private company, and over the years we have watched the value of our stock increase steadily. Our ESOP has created a few new millionaires, and many of us have retired with very healthy, six-figure stock accounts. These are not just company officers or directors -- we are talking about factory and office workers, too. As owners, we also share in the profits through bonuses and dividends, and our pay scale is competitive with that of companies in our area that are not employee-owned.
Scot Forge is far from an isolated success story. Many ESOP companies are much like ours, small to midsized businesses. They represent every aspect of our economy, including manufacturing, retail and service industries.
 
KAREN YORK
Spring Grove, Ill., Sept. 12
 
The writer is a staff accountant at the Scot Forge Company.
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS332111 IRON & STEEL FORGING (84%); SIC3462 IRON & STEEL FORGING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: YORK, PA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIRLINES UNITED AIR LINES INC (91%); SCOT FORGE CO (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%); YORK, PA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (95%); AIRLINES (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); METAL FORGING & STAMPING (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); STOCK OPTIONS (76%); WRITERS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); 

PERSON: YORK, KAREN; MEYERS, GERALD

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



32 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: In an Ex-Soviet Land, High Hopes Are Ebbing

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS FRANTZ

DATELINE: RUSTAVI, Georgia

 BODY:
The factories built as part of the great Soviet industrialization undertaken for Stalin, Georgia's native son, stand empty. The ugly concrete apartment houses for the workers are crumbling. The shops display few wares, and every traffic light is off to save electricity.
Only the soup kitchen seems to be thriving as a line snakes out the door. 
 Etery Guedashvili, 61, emerges from the squat building, carrying her ration of soup in a jar and bread wrapped in paper, a meager meal that embodies the dashed hopes for democracy and prosperity all across the former Soviet republics of the Caucasus and Central Asia.
At first she is embarrassed by this handout. But humiliation fast turns to anger, and she spits out her indictment of the government.
"I worked in a military production plant for 30 years and I earned a good pension," she said. "Now I get only 12 lari a month, and they don't even pay that. I would go back to work, but there are no jobs."
Twelve lari is $6, the average pension. Often the government does not have enough money to pay even that pittance, or the salaries of teachers, police officers and judges.
Rustavi was once a model of the Soviet economy, a new city built in 1948 for 160,000 residents whose lives centered on the bustling factories. Today, Rustavi is a model for the stubborn poverty gripping a vast region rich in oil, gas and strategic importance but short of the hope that even five years ago buoyed forecasts of a better tomorrow.
Details and degree differ from country to country, but everywhere there is the same volatile mix of ethnic and religious strife and despair over government failure to create even the prospect of wealth.
The people here, particularly the middle-aged and elderly, grew up secure in the belief that the state, however hated, would meet their needs, and they can scarcely cope now that it patently does not.
"The standard of living for large sections of the population has been falling now for 15 years," concluded a new report by the International Crisis Group, a private organization in Brussels. "And there are political forces already mobilized to exploit any outburst of popular discontent."
The report dealt with Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzebekistan, but the assessment is depressingly similar elsewhere.
Georgia, whose modern political star is not Stalin but Eduard A. Shevardnadze, the former Soviet foreign minister who helped tear down the Berlin Wall, was supposed to be different. It is a country of rugged beauty and rich culture, with a population of about five million in a mountainous area slightly smaller than South Carolina. The first independent state was founded in the fourth century B.C., and Christianity became the state religion in fourth century A.D.
Five years ago, Georgia seemed poised to become something of a model for the triumph of Western values and the free market.
The bloody civil war and the chaos that followed independence in 1991 were over. Mr. Shevardnadze, newly elected as president, was highly regarded in the West. He carried out democratic reforms and, with help from the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, created the fastest growing economy among the region's former Soviet republics.
Then things went awry. The Russian financial crisis in 1998 robbed Georgia of its export market for machinery, agriculture and wine. Next, fighting resumed in the breakaway ethnic enclave of Abkhazia in northwestern Georgia. Both there and in a second separatist region, South Ossetia, peace remains elusive.
The economic woes deepened this summer when drought destroyed 80 percent of the wheat crop and drained reservoirs.
But the biggest problem is corruption, which is so rampant that the government cannot collect enough taxes and customs duties to pay salaries and pensions regularly, let alone reduce the $200 million in foreign debt or curb its budget deficit.
Teachers in the eastern region of Tianeti refused to open the schools in September, because they had not been paid for 10 months. Residents in Tkibuli, in the west, blocked streets to protest the lack of electricity.
In an interview at his office in the capital, Tbilisi, Mr. Shevardnadze, now 72, acknowledged the difficulties but said he remains optimistic. He described plans for improving health care and irrigation and new efforts to improve tax collection.
There is some potential help from a much-debated proposed pipeline from Baku, Azerbaijan, to the Turkish port of Ceyhan, but that is a bit further down the road, and more speculative. The pipeline would pass through Georgia, generating jobs and eventually about $50 million a year in transshipment fees.
"We have gone only halfway there in terms of economic development," Mr. Shevardnadze said. "It is a slow process."
One reason for the agonizing slowness of change is the prevalence of the Soviet-era mentality, especially in societies that were predominanty feudal and rural when the 1917 revolution suddenly foisted Communist visions of equality and forced industrialization on them. "Stalin and Lenin taught us to stay in one place and wait," said Alexander Rondeli, director of a research center linked with the Foreign Ministry. "This condition did not change overnight. There is no Soviet Union, but we live in the Soviet Union. We have the same values and the same mentality."
The leadership mentality is similar, too, in most of the former republics. Authoritarian leaders have centralized power and neutered the opposition just as Kremlin bosses once did. Mr. Shevardnadze is a leader of equal longevity, dominating Georgia for much of the last 35 years.
True to his foreign reputation as one of the men who helped Communism collapse relatively painlessly, Mr. Shevardnadze has steered a more democratic course than other former Soviet leaders. Power is shared among the strong presidency, the judiciary and the legislature, though Mr. Shevardnadze's party controls Parliament and the opposition is weak.
But corruption, from a booming black market in oil and cigarettes to bribery of officials, remains almost intractable because of the tightknit, clannish nature of Georgia and because some of those involved are longtime associates of the president and he remains loyal to them.
"Corruption is the key to the economic future of the country," said Gela Charkviani, a senior adviser to Mr. Shevardnadze. "If we can deal with the underlying corruption, we can collect enough taxes and other revenue to pay the salaries of the teachers and all the pensions."
A seven-member commission has just completed work on a blueprint for scrubbing the government, but details have not been disclosed.
What is apparent is that the effort will have to be tough and thorough to save people like most residents of Rustavi, a city built 25 miles southeast of Tbilisi along the Kura River on the site of an ancient village said to have been destroyed by Tamerlane at the end of the 14th century.
Steelworks and ironworks were started to supply the Soviet military and agriculture, and chemical factories produced pesticides. All of them polluted the river, a toxic residue that adds to the city's troubles.
But the modern destruction of Rustavi occurred when the Soviet Union collapsed. The market for its goods evaporated. In the chaos that followed, armed gangs and free-lance looters pillaged the factories and sold the machinery for scrap.
The local authorities estimate unemployment at higher than 50 percent, but that seems low to Malkhaz Irenadze, who runs one of the city's two soup kitchens for the Salvation Army. Each kitchen gives away 1,000 meals a day, he said, adding that he could easily serve 10 times as many.
For many of those who go there, the only meal of the day is thin soup, vegetables, bread and an occasional sausage.
"This is a frozen city," one older woman said bitterly. "The government has forgotten us."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Rustavi, which once had bustling factories serving the Soviet military and agriculture, the local economy crumbled when the Soviet Union collapsed. A volunteer ladled out soup at a Salvation Army kitchen. (Douglas Frantz/The New York Times)
 
Map of Georgia shows the location of Rustavi: Rustavi, once a Soviet model city, is now a model for poverty.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GEORGIA (92%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA (92%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RELIGION (86%); ETHNICITY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); LIVING STANDARDS (75%); INDICTMENTS (69%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: EDUARD A SHEVARDNADZE (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



33 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: ADVERTISING;
Costly Prescriptions: One Issue That Fits All

BYLINE: By PETER MARKS

 BODY:
Brian Schweitzer, a peppermint, alfalfa and cattle farmer running for the Senate in Montana, holds up a pair of pill bottles for the camera and declares, "I bet you'd be surprised to find out that veterinarians prescribe the exact same medicine for dogs, and charge half as much."
In a New Hampshire television commercial, Gov. Jeanne Shaheen, seeking re-election, has found a novel way to attack her Republican opponent, former Senator Gordon Humphrey: she says his vote against creating a prescription drug benefit under Medicare makes him "an extremist." 
 And an advertisement for the Democratic hopeful for the Senate in Minnesota, Mark Dayton, shows the candidate riding a bus with elderly people to buy their pills for lower prices in Canada. "He's helping us," one of the retirees, Buzz Otte, exclaims. "He likes us old-timers!"
In the 2000 campaign, no question is getting more play from more candidates than what to do about the rising cost of medication. It is, in fact, the issue that spin doctors prescribe most. Jim Jordan, political director for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, says that he knows how many of the Democrats waging television advertising campaigns are invoking the issue: all of them.
"There is just so much wind in the sails of this issue," he said. "I have no doubt that by election day every single Democrat who is on the air will have run ads about prescription drugs."
The topic has become such a ubiquitous feature of this year's advertising that it is virtually a requirement for candidates to have a prescription drug commercial. And some contenders have already produced as many as six advertisements on the subject. "It's stunning," said Neil Newhouse, a Republican pollster who has advised several of his clients across the country to weave the subject into their messages.
"In terms of campaign advertising, it's hard to think back and find an issue that bridges federal and state candidates, Republicans and Democrats, the way that prescription drugs has," Mr. Newhouse said.
That such a narrowly defined issue could dominate commercials from coast to coast illustrates how swiftly and widely potentially winning messages can be franchised, almost like coffee houses or fast-food outlets.
"I guess voters want to hear you have a plan," said Mac McCorkle, an issues consultant to Democrats in races for governor in North Carolina and Missouri. "They don't trust all the protestations about what a great character I am, but they do relate to whether you get the message on prescription drugs."
Candidates of every stripe are seeking to sound like friends of the little guy in his fight against escalating drug costs.
"Slade Gorton stared down the drug companies to lower the unfair prices of prescription medicines," an announcer says in an advertisement for the Republican senator's re-election campaign in Washington State.
Three thousand miles away, another Republican, Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, offers a similar theme. "No senior citizen," she says in her commercial, "should ever have to choose between putting food on the table and getting the medicine that they need."
And it is not just the candidates who are weighing in. The A.F.L.-C.I.O., various state parties and the Democratic and Republican national committees have all run prescription drug advertisements. That is not to mention the Citizens for Better Medicare, a group allied with the pharmaceutical industry that has spent more than $34 million this year on a nationwide advertising campaign against those who support a Clinton administration proposal to make the drug benefit a part of Medicare. Dan Zielinski, a spokesman for Citizens for Better Medicare, said that he believed the group's adversaries had spent just as much.
Both parties, of course, say they support lowering the drug costs for older people, but it was the Democrats who were first to recognize the telegenic appeal of mixing pills and politics. Democratic Party officials say it was no coincidence that they made Vice President Al Gore's support for the drug benefit the subject of his campaign's first commercial.
Regardless of party affiliation, the rewards can be handsome for candidates who have taken early stands on the issue.
Dr. Paul Perry, a surgeon from Evansville, Ind., and first-time candidate for Congress, says he went from relative unknown to victor in the Democratic primary in Indiana's Eighth Congressional District on the strength of health care concerns in general and the economics of pharmaceuticals in particular.
"We had nine weeks of TV advertising, talking about H.M.O. reform and the cost of prescription drugs," said Dr. Perry, who defeated John Hamilton, nephew of the popular former House member Lee Hamilton, in the primary. "The power of that message took us to a 20-point win. Patients understand that the power of the insurance companies has become so great. And prescription drugs play into the whole idea of who's in control of health care."
Those in the business of promulgating campaign messages and measuring their effect say the issue is keenly calibrated to these political times. Voters, their surveys show, are not impressed with thematic advertising that highlights values or vision. In this peacetime era of relative economic security, they say they want to hear about plans to solve problems in their own lives. And they want details.
"You've got to go specific," said Lee M. Miringoff, director of the Marist Institute for Public Opinion in Poughkeepsie, N.Y.
The message is not only tailored to the elderly. Joe Andrew, national chairman of the Democratic National Committee, said that in advising the party to focus heavily on prescription drugs, he saw the issue's appeal as "cross-generational": a health care issue for the oldest voters, a financial issue for baby boomers worried about how to support an aging parent and a matter of social responsibility for young people.
In some races, like the Senate contest in Michigan between the Republican incumbent, Spencer Abraham, and his challenger, Representative Debbie Stabenow, the fight over whose prescription drug plan is more effective has spawned a campaign that at times feels like a visit to an insurance broker. On a recent evening, a Detroit television station, WXYZ, devoted several minutes to trying to decipher the dueling claims, right down to a discussion of co-payment fees.
"This is a bigger pocketbook issue than taxes right now," said Karl Struble, a Washington media consultant who has made prescription drug advertisements for clients like Mr. Schweitzer in Montana and Ed Bernstein, a Democrat running for an open Senate seat in Nevada. "I've sat in focus groups. I've watched people talk about it. I've been a pied piper telling people, 'This is where you want to go.' "
In no campaign have prescription drugs played a larger role than in the bid by Mr. Schweitzer to unseat a Republican incumbent, Senator Conrad Burns. A year ago, Mr. Schweitzer said, he drove across the state talking to voters. "It wasn't the first issue that most people talked about, but it was the second or third," he recalled. "It was a matter of listening to what they were saying."
Not long after, Mr. Schweitzer began signing up Montanans for chartered-bus trips to Canada to buy prescription medications at lower prices there. Coverage of Mr. Schweitzer's trips -- he called them "The Run for the Border" -- spawned imitators. Mr. Dayton began an "Rx Express" from Minnesota to Canada, and Mark Lawrence, Ms. Snowe's opponent in Maine, boarded buses for Canada, too.
Mr. Schweitzer has run several drug commercials, including the one in which he compares the prices with those of pet medicines. It was reminiscent of a statement by Mr. Gore that his mother-in-law paid three times as much for an arthritis medicine as he did for the drug for his dog. (The Gore campaign later acknowledged the anecdote was based on a Congressional study.)
Still, Mr. Schweitzer's advertisements have boosted his poll numbers, his advisers say, and forced the opposition to respond. In a new advertisement, the state Republican Party asserts that Mr. Schweitzer "backs Al Gore's big government health care agenda," a plan it calls "bad medicine for Montana."
Dick Wadhams, a spokesman for Senator Burns's campaign, said, "It is fair to say the prescription drug issue has been fairly dominant in the campaign, largely because Schweitzer has been a one-issue candidate since last year."
From any camera angle, it is clear Mr. Schweitzer thinks that one issue might just be enough.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mark Dayton, a Democrat running for the Senate in Minnesota, is running advertisements, left, on bus rides he has organized to Canada for elderly people to buy medication. Brian Schweitzer, a Democrat running for the Senate in Montana, has also focused on the rising cost of prescriptions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (63%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (63%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (63%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (63%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (63%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (63%); DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); MONTANA, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); MAMMALS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DRUG PRICES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); VETERINARY DRUGS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (77%); DIRECT TO CONSUMER DRUG MARKETING (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); AGING (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (75%); DOGS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); UNFAIR PRICING (69%); FAST FOOD (60%); MEDICARE (55%); 

PERSON: BRIAN SCHWEITZER (89%); MARK DAYTON (71%); JEANNE SHAHEEN (58%); JIM JORDAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



34 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Europe Delays Its Sanctions Against U.S. Over Trade

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

 BODY:
The United States persuaded the European Union yesterday to delay imposing billions of dollars in sanctions stemming from a dispute over tax laws, providing at least a short reprieve while both sides seek to cut through a thicket of trade tensions.
The 11th-hour delay, negotiated in Brussels, is a victory for President Clinton. Mr. Clinton decided this month to hold off on applying new sanctions on European luxury goods in connection with a separate case involving beef and bananas, hoping to a avoid an escalation in trans-Atlantic trade tensions. 
 The agreement yesterday is only a procedural delay and does not address the substance of either trade dispute. But it does give the two sides more time to work out settlements to cases they have each won against the other at the World Trade Organization, the Geneva-based trade regulatory body.
"The United States and European Union today demonstrated a commitment to avoid escalating trans-Atlantic trade tensions and managing this W.T.O. trade dispute responsibly," said the United States trade representative, Charlene Barshefsky.
The delay would appear to justify Mr. Clinton's faith in Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, who had appealed to him to stall new sanctions on Scottish cashmere and other European goods. Mr. Blair persuaded Mr. Clinton that he was intervening to soften the hard-line European stance on both the beef and banana case and the tax case.
Europe's concession also came after the United States intervened in currency markets to shore up the troubled euro just over a week ago. The Clinton administration took traders by surprise when it joined the European Central Bank in buying euros and selling dollars, at least temporarily breaking what had been a steady fall for the 21-month old European common currency.
Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers and Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, did not cite festering trade disputes as a reason for the intervention. But the action improved the sometimes hostile relations between the world's two leading economic powers at a crucial time.
The tax case is, in dollar terms, the largest trade case in history. It involves an American law that allows major corporations, including Boeing and General Motors, to avoid paying some taxes on sales they make overseas. The tax break amounted to $4.1 billion last year. The trade body ruled that the law amounts to an illegal export subsidy, entitling Europe to impose trade sanctions that would probably amount to at least that much each year.
Under the accord yesterday, Europe will not begin the possibly long process of imposing sanctions until at least Nov. 1, extending by one month the date originally set by the trade organization. That gives Congress more time to pass new tax legislation that the Clinton administration says will bring the country into compliance with trade rules, obviating the need for sanctions. The House has already passed such legislation, and it is now before the Senate.
The European Union has argued -- and it reiterated its stance yesterday -- that the new American legislation does not address the flaw in the previous tax law. But it also agreed yesterday to allow the W.T.O. to decide on the validity of the new law before any sanctions are imposed. That could mean that even if the new law is ruled a violation, trade between the two powers would not be affected for eight months or so more.
Meanwhile, the Clinton administration has yet to publish the new list of sanctions in retaliation for Europe's restrictions on beef and banana trade.
The administration won the right in 1998 to slap 100 percent duties on about $300 million in European goods each year because Europe restricts trade in beef and bananas. Congress later passed a law requiring the administration to rotate the list of European luxury goods hit by those sanctions to make them more painful to more European companies.
But the new list is already several months overdue. A senior administration official said this month that they had been placed in "strategic limbo" while the two sides seek a settlement.
A senior American trade official said yesterday that Europe had made some progress toward complying on beef and banana trade, but the official did not suggest that a resolution to the matter was imminent. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%); GM (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); BELGIUM (92%); SCOTLAND (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); BOEING CO (52%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); BELGIUM (92%); SCOTLAND (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TRADE DISPUTES (91%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EURO (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); LUXURY GOODS (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); EXPORT PROMOTION (60%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%); PRIME MINISTERS (52%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (56%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); TONY BLAIR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



35 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1638 words

HEADLINE: At Crucial Point in Race, Lazio Retooling Upstate Strategy

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: WATERTOWN, N.Y., Sept. 29

 BODY:
The cheers echoed through the ballroom of the Best Western Carriage House Inn here. White "Lazio 2000" buttons gleamed from shirts and blouses and, as they always do, those in the crowd laughed at Representative Rick A. Lazio's favorite joke about New York subsidizing Arkansas.
"We expect our fair share," said Mr. Lazio, smiling his perpetual grin and adding that New York State sends billions more in federal taxes to Washington than it receives in return. "If you compare it to states that we effectively subsidize, Southern states, like, let's pick a Southern state, say. . . ." 
 "Arkansas!" someone from the crowd cried out, to laughter.
Mr. Lazio had come, though, to convince people that the upstate economy had turned a corner but had not completely righted itself, a notion he found disputed not only in the region, but also in this very room.
"Stay on message," one man called out. "New York State upstate is getting better in spite of what the opposition makes fun of you for."
But one woman in the crowd was not convinced. "We are dairy farmers," she said. "All of the economy in the North Country is not getting better. My husband has taken over a 60 percent cut in wages this year, and so has my son, who works with us. We want to preserve our family farm. We need that Northeast dairy compact now, and we want you working for it."
Nobody mentioned soft money. Few people talked of trust. Instead, this week, as he toured upstate in advance of what his aides said would be a full-court press in October to counter an unexpectedly strong showing in the region by Hillary Rodham Clinton, Mr. Lazio heard concerns about more bread-and-butter issues, like jobs and local development.
Mr. Lazio reaches the start of October, a critical time for his campaign, with three polls indicating that Mrs. Clinton is building a lead, particularly upstate, which pundits say he should command.
He has faced enthusiastic, if modest, crowds, but also concerns among Republican voters and party officials that people do not have a good grasp of him, that he may not be hitting concerns that drive people into the voting booth.
His campaign strategists are sending word to reporters to watch for a "revamp" and "retooling" in his upstate strategy. They say he will devote more time and resources upstate. More television commercials will be broadcast. More proposals will come out. He will talk more about an education plan he proposed nearly three weeks ago but has not heavily promoted since then, although he has called the issue paramount. More surrogates will make appearances, like Gov. George E. Pataki, who toured with Mr. Lazio at a factory today to promote tax relief as a stimulus to the economy.
Mr. Lazio's campaign manager, Bill Dal Col, said of the coming surge, "The final push is about pushing you over the edge."
Mr. Dal Col warned against underestimating the power of grass-roots, low-profile campaigning, including direct-mail and phone solicitations. These, he said, are potentially potent weapons that Mr. Lazio plans to unleash with vigor in October.
Some political scientists watching the campaign say they think that Mr. Lazio's push for upstate voters will not be as successful as he hopes. They say he should have paid more attention to the region earlier, instead of allowing Mrs. Clinton to be the first to bring up the upstate economy and to advance the perception -- right or wrong -- that she has taken the lead on the issue, a perception that has given her a bounce in the polls.
Surveys taken well in advance of Election Day do not necessarily capture the mood of voters. But they do feed impressions of a candidate and a campaign among voters and journalists.
"There is pretty good reason to be concerned," said a top Republican strategist. He wondered if Mr. Lazio's support of large-scale tax relief measures would resonate in upstate areas that were not ailing. "Their numbers are indicating that they are falling far enough back that they have a lot of work to do," he said of the Lazio campaign. "They are allowing the terms of engagement to be dictated by the other side."
Another Republican strategist put it more bluntly, saying: "These guys are flailing. There is no apparent direction that I can see, and they better find one in the next couple of weeks before it is too late."
Even some of Mr. Lazio's most enthusiastic supporters say he needs to do more to connect with voters, particularly upstate.
"The soft-money thing was great for getting his name out there," said a Republican fund-raiser in Ulster County, "but people want to hear more about his record. His message doesn't always get out. He has a good record."
James E. Campbell, a professor of political science at the State University of New York at Buffalo, agreed, saying Mr. Lazio's battle with Mrs. Clinton over the unregulated campaign funds known as soft money cost him precious time needed to counter a growing perception that he was not attentive to the struggling economy in pivotal Erie County.
Professor Campbell said that while there were more jobs in the county now than there were a few years ago, the boarded-up storefronts and abandoned buildings made it clear that much more needed to be done.
"He needs to reassess and make his case that his more broad-base plan is better for the economy than Mrs. Clinton's targeted micromanaging approach," Mr. Campbell said.
Mr. Lazio contends that his comments on the economy have been misconstrued. He has said that his plan to lower taxes and encourage business partnerships among the private and public sectors will strengthen the economy everywhere.
"As I've said all along, more work needs to be done," he said.
He also says that with five weeks left in the race, he does not put much stock in polls. He and his aides say they are not surprised that he is trailing Mrs. Clinton. They point out that Mr. Lazio is running in a state with a Democratic majority, during a presidential election year in which the Democratic nominee is ahead in this state. In addition, they concede, Mrs. Clinton has campaigned aggressively upstate, and her campaign has broadcast several commercials aimed at the region. And they believe that Mr. Lazio's entry in the race just four months ago put him at a disadvantage.
"I think it's very important not to be fooled by poll numbers," Mr. Lazio told reporters today after the Watertown rally. "I think if you look at the enthusiasm at the grass-roots level, the people who are supporting me, the people who are Republicans and Democrats and independents, the people who are willing to cross party lines, the people in this room who are elected Democrats who are supporting me, I think that makes a huge statement about the fact we do have momentum, that we are going to win this race."
Over and over, Mr. Lazio has pointed to his 1992 upset victory for his House seat, a race in which polls showed him behind by 18 points several days before the election, he said.
Mr. Lazio missed a majority of votes in the House in September and has tempered the pace of his fund-raising. That has given him more time to campaign, which his advisers say he needs after spending so much of the summer raising money to catch up with Mrs. Clinton.
On this trip, which began Wednesday and was to end Saturday, Mr. Lazio's stops consisted largely of visits to small light-manufacturing plants, where he closely observed the assembly of lighting fixtures, sprayers for lawn care products and laminates for circuit boards. A strategist explained that such stops may seem low key, but they provide "good optics" for television and newspaper cameras in the smaller media markets the campaign has shortchanged.
Mr. Lazio also worked his base at party rallies and dinners, explaining the high stakes he sees in this race.
"People throughout America are looking to New York," he told the gathering here in Watertown, striking a theme he has sounded for a week or so. "They think this race is more important in many ways than the races in their own home state. They look at this race and they say, 'You know what? This is a race that may determine the direction that America goes. It may determine the moral compass of our country.' It's a race that could determine the heart and soul of America, and for a lot of New Yorkers, I think it's a race over the heart and soul of New York. So there is a lot at stake."
Since the summer, Mr. Lazio has said character and trust are driving issues; his aides said they were the underpinnings of his recent push for campaign finance reform, an issue they insisted he would not drop. But in recent days, Mr. Lazio has hardly raised the subject himself unless prompted by reporters.
Instead, in several speeches he talked of easing tax burdens across the board and stressed the importance of a sound education system -- the subjects of his two major policy addresses since joining the race.
This trip also offered Mr. Lazio a chance to hear more about voters' concerns. A policy adviser has been quietly taking notes at each stop. Mr. Lazio was asked by a veteran here if he supported a constitutional amendment to bar desecration of the flag. He said he did. At another stop, the candidate urged high school students to swear off drugs and alcohol, but later declined to say if he supported voluntary abstinence for everyone.
And he did plenty of old-fashioned, grass-roots campaigning.
"The countdown has begun," he told Republicans in East Rochester. "We need to make sure we get every vote out. Every vote counts in this election. Please, please, please get those bumper stickers on, yard signs up. Call your neighbors. We don't want to have to think about the day after election that we did not do everything that we should have done to make sure we sealed victory."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Rick A. Lazio, right, at a football game in Rome, N.Y., during a campaign swing upstate. (Associated Press)(pg. 37)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); ROME, ITALY (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX RELIEF (76%); TAX LAW (76%); FAMILY FARMS (74%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); DAIRY FARMING (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



36 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-16
 
Arab Death Toll Rises In Clashes With Israelis
Violent clashes between Palestinians and Israeli forces in the West Bank and Gaza left at least 12 dead and hundreds wounded in the third straight day of pitched street fighting set off by the defiant visit Thursday of a right-wing Israeli leader, Ariel Sharon, to the ancient mosques atop Jerusalem's Old City. 1 

Push for Milosevic Concession
Opposition leaders in Serbia anxiously await key rallies planned for tomorrow aimed at forcing President Slobodan Milosevic to concede defeat in elections last Sunday. 12
 
President Vladimir Putin of Russia offered to send his foreign minister to Belgrade to help resolve the standoff. President Clinton spoke with Mr. Putin by phone, saying the will of the Serbian people must be respected. 12
 
Fujimori's Waning Power
United States officials have encouraged President Alberto K. Fujimori of Peru to forge ahead with new elections, even as political experts say his influence appears to be declining. Mr. Fujimori's own prime minister has tacitly conceded that the military is restive. 16
 
Europe Delays Trade Sanctions
The European Union delayed billions of dollars in sanctions against the United States stemming from a dispute over tax laws, providing a reprieve while both sides try to reduce trade tensions. 15
 
India Floods Kill More Than 900
A government team described the effects of two weeks of flooding in West Bengal state as "pretty serious," with a death toll of more than 900. 9
 
NATIONAL 18-31
 
Candidates See Stakes Of the Debates as Critical
Officials in both camps say the stakes of the presidential debate on Tuesday will be far greater than anticipated. As a result, they have suspended many strategic decisions, at least until Wednesday, so they can gauge whether the dynamics of the contest have been shifted. 1
 
The proposals for offering drug coverage to the elderly are hard to compare, but analysts say Vice President Al Gore's plan includes more financing and a higher subsidy for premiums. Advisers to Gov. George W. Bush counter that his plan offers more flexibility and more choices. 1
 
The hardest-working family in this campaign may be Dick Cheney's. His wife delivers warm-up speeches, and his two daughters are close aides. 24
 
Officials in the Bush campaign said they did not believe that an employee of the campaign's advertising firm was involved in sending debate materials to the Gore campaign. 24
 
Studios Prepare for Strikes
Hollywood is bracing itself for threatened strikes by writers and actors, which could well affect what viewers around the world will see in movies and on television next year. 1
 
Churches Fight Lottery
Church groups strongly oppose a state lottery plan in South Carolina, but the measure may not be defeated as video poker was last year. 18
 
Schools Try Reward System
Schools in North Carolina are offering bonuses to teachers and discount cards to students, all in an effort to raise test scores. 20
 
NEW YORK/REGION 33-37
 
Low-Wage Jobs Are Found To Grow at a Faster Rate
While the city has added thousands of high-paying Wall Street and Silicon Alley jobs in recent years, the fastest growth has been among low-wage service jobs -- those paying less than $25,000 a year -- like restaurant workers, security guards and day care workers a study by a team of economists found. 1
 
Lazio Leads In Fund-Raising
Rick A. Lazio has surpassed Hillary Rodham Clinton in fund-raising, raising about four times as much money as Mrs. Clinton in the past month, and he has nearly three times as much money on hand, according to unofficial figures released by the campaigns today. 37
 
City Courts Online Deliveries
City and state officials seem to be tripping over each other in the race to lure more desktop-to-doorstep delivery companies to New York with everything from grants to tax breaks. 35
 
OBITUARIES 39-40
 
Fay Alexander
One of the few trapeze artists to execute a triple somersault was 75. 40
 
Brian MacRae
The Queen of England's personal bagpiper for 15 years was 58. 39
 
Harry Paster
A valued adviser to the most rich and powerful executives of Madison Avenue, he was 74. 39
 
Chess 39
Weather 41 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SERBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (57%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SERBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (57%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); RELIGION (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (73%); TRADE DISPUTES (71%); TAX LAW (66%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (64%); FILM (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (60%); LOTTERIES (60%); POKER (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (53%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (70%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); AL GORE (55%); DICK CHENEY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



37 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1591 words

HEADLINE: Low-Wage Jobs Leading Gains In Employment

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
New York City's rebounding economy has produced a record number of jobs, but a new study shows that the number of low-wage jobs, those paying less than $25,000 a year, is growing much faster than the number of middle- or high-wage jobs.
The study, to be released tomorrow, found that while the city had added thousands of high-paying Wall Street and Silicon Alley jobs in recent years, the fastest job growth had been among low-wage service employees, like restaurant workers, security guards, day care workers and home attendants for the elderly. 
 Since 1993, when job growth in New York City began rebounding after the national recession of 1991-92, the number of jobs paying less than $25,000 a year has climbed 22 percent, nearly four times as much as jobs paying $25,000 to $75,000, according to the study. And the number of low-wage jobs has risen twice as much as jobs paying more than $75,000.
The study, conducted by the Working Group on the New York City Low Wage Labor Market, a team of economists from government agencies and nonprofit groups, focuses on some largely overlooked cracks in the city's economic boom. It notes, for instance, that many jobs created in the last decade do not pay enough to support a family. It also found that for the city's low-wage workers, the median wage dropped by 2 percent from 1989 to 1999, after taking inflation into account.
"Despite the strong pace of private-sector job growth," the study said, "an alarming number of families in New York City are unable to earn enough to achieve an acceptable standard of living."
Some economists for New York State criticized the study, saying it was too harsh and overlooked some gains of recent years.
The study is intended to analyze conditions and recommend ways to improve the lives of low-wage workers in New York. It says that compared with the nation as a whole and many other states, the city's job growth has been concentrated among low-wage workers, and that their earnings have risen more slowly.
Mark Levitan, the study's chief author and a senior policy analyst with the Community Service Society of New York, said several factors accounted for those trends. Over the last five years, he said, about 200,000 people in New York have left the welfare rolls and entered the labor market. And as in Los Angeles, the nation's other major gateway, he said, there has been a huge influx of unskilled immigrants seeking jobs.
"We have a lot of people coming into the labor market with not a lot of skills," Mr. Levitan said.
In decades past, many unskilled workers moved into manufacturing or government jobs, which typically pay considerably more than low-end service-sector jobs. But factory jobs have declined faster in New York than in the nation as a whole, while the number of government jobs has remained flat for a decade.
The study found that when measured from 1989, the peak of the city's last business cycle, growth in low-wage jobs had accounted for virtually all the city's increase in employment. From 1989 to 1999, the number of under-$25,000 jobs climbed by 16 percent, to 590,000, the study said.
Suggesting that the city's economy is taking on something of an hourglass shape, the study found that from 1989 to 1999, the number of jobs paying $25,000 to $50,000 declined by 4 percent, as did those paying $50,000 to $75,000. During the same time, there was a tiny increase in the number of jobs paying more than $75,000 a year, as the job boom at Wall Street's securities firms was offset in large part by cuts at commercial banks.
The study, based on data from the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, found that of the 3.5 million jobs in the city in 1999, 590,000, or about 17 percent, paid less than $25,000 a year and that 1.8 million, or roughly 51 percent, paid $25,000 to $50,000. The study said 463,000 jobs, or 13 percent, paid $50,000 to $75,000, and 641,000, or 18 percent, paid more than $75,000.
Several New York State officials criticized the study for focusing on the decade from the 1989 business cycle peak to 1999, another high point. These officials argued that it was fairer to measure from 1993, when the local economy began to rebound.
Stephen Kagann, chief economist for Gov. George E. Pataki, said that the study painted an unjustifiably harsh picture, and that since the turnaround year of 1993, there had been across-the-board growth in the city's low-, medium- and high-wage jobs. Low-wage jobs account for 105,000 of the 311,000 jobs created in the city from 1993 to 1999, or 34 percent.
Mr. Kagann acknowledged that median wages for the city's low-wage workers might have declined over the last decade, as has been the case in much of the nation, but he said many of those workers moved to higher-paying jobs. Pointing to the unusual strength in the city's economy over the last year, he noted that the number of New Yorkers below the official poverty line fell last year and that wages for low-wage workers had begun rising, after accounting for inflation.
"New York City is having its strongest growth on record," Mr. Kagann said. "Employers are very hungry for people. What hungry employers do is they bid up wages."
Whatever year one measures from, the dishwashers, janitors and other New Yorkers who earn less than $25,000 say they can barely make ends meet.
William Cotto, a full-time security guard at an office building at Broadway and 68th Street, said his $7-an-hour pay was so meager that he worked 20 hours a week as a janitor to support his wife and four children.
"It's very hard," said Mr. Cotto, who lives in Harlem. "I barely have any money in my pocket. If I buy clothes for one kid one week, then I have to wait for the next week to buy clothes for one of my other kids."
Mr. Cotto, who has no health insurance, said he had fallen deeply into debt because of a $2,200 dentist's bill for removing a molar.
Andres Pulinario, a Dominican immigrant who works at a meatpacking plant in the Bronx, acknowledged that his $5.27-an-hour wage was far too little to support his family. To help pay the $510 rent for his Bronx apartment, he is forcing his 15-year-old daughter, Escarlin, to work 25 hours a week in a supermarket.
"Sure, I worry that it will hurt her in school, but what can you do?" said Mr. Pulinario. "Some months it's difficult trying to pay the rent on time."
Gloria Pye, a 58-year-old Bronx resident who earns $7.19 an hour providing home care for an Alzheimer's patient, is struggling to repay $3,000 in missed rent payments. She said she fell behind and was nearly evicted because of her low wages, the high costs of her prescription drugs for hypertension and diabetes, and being out of work for several months.
"I'm working 55 hours a week now," she said. "That's the only way I can make ends meet."
The study offers many recommendations intended to make it easier for low-wage workers to make ends meet, including extending health insurance to more uninsured workers and having the government do more to provide affordable day care and housing for low-wage workers. It also calls for improving job training for unskilled workers and providing bus service so workers living in the city can travel to better-paying jobs in the suburbs. The study also calls for raising the state's minimum wage to $6.75 an hour, considerably higher than the federal minimum of $5.15.
"This city is always going to have a significant low-wage service sector," Mr. Levitan said. "The question is: Is public policy going to provide these people with a way to make ends meet? We're always going to have people working in restaurants, caring for the aged, taking care of children and mopping floors. That's part of the modern urban economy. All we're saying is: Why can't these people live at a decent level? Why can't they have health insurance or decent housing?"
A little more than half of those earning less than $25,000 were born outside the United States, the study found. And more than 17 percent do not speak English well or do not speak it at all.
Two weeks ago, several nonprofit groups issued a study saying the federal poverty line, $14,150 for a household of three, did not come close to supporting a household of three in New York City. The study said a household of three in the Bronx needed $38,088 to cover a no-frills budget for housing, food, child care, health care, taxes, transportation and other basic costs.
In Queens, a basic budget for self-sufficiency would be $46,836 a year, that study said, and in the southern half of Manhattan, $74,232.
The new study on low-wage workers found a widening gap between rich and poor workers. From 1989 to 1999, average wages for workers in New York earning more than $75,000 annually jumped by 65 percent, after inflation is taken into account, while those earning under $25,000 experienced a 2.2 percent drop. For those in the least-skilled occupations, after-inflation wages fell by 14 percent.
Those earning at least $75,000 -- about 18 percent of the city's work force -- had 85 percent of the total increase in wages and salaries from 1989 to 1999.
"Clearly in this type of economy, skills are rewarded," said the chief economist for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, Eugene Spruck. "Those with the highest skills get the highest rewards. And the unskilled find that their real incomes are declining."
Calling the low-wage study too harsh, Mr. Spruck pointed out that employment in the New York region rose faster than in the nation last year and was at record levels.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: William Cotto: $7 an hour -- He supplements his full-time job as a security guard by working 20 hours a week as a janitor to support his wife and four children. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times); Gloria Pye: $7.19 an hour -- She gives home care for an Alzheimer's patient. "I'm working 55 hours a week now," she said. "That's the only way I can make ends meet." (Hiroyuki Ito for The New York Times); Andres Pulinario: $5.27 an hour -- To help meet the $510-a-month rent for his family's Bronx apartment, he has his 15-year-old daughter work 25 hours a week in a supermarket. (Hiroyuki Ito for The New York Times)(pg. 36)
 
Graph: "BREAKDOWN: New York City's Work Force"
Number of employees in each wage interval. 1999 data is preliminary.
 
Graph tracks employees' wages in intervals of Income less than $25,000, $25,000 -- $50,000, $50,001 -- $75,000 and More than $75,000, since 1989.
(Source: Working Group on New York City Low Wage Labor Market)(pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY LOW WAGE LABOR MARKET (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY LOW WAGE LABOR MARKET (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (92%); RESEARCH REPORTS (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); FAMILY (78%); TRENDS (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



38 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: California's Freeway to Learning

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Abigail Thernstrom's argument against California's expansion of scholarships for needy students who perform well in high school (Op-Ed, Sept. 26) demonstrates elitism and defeatism. 
 She acknowledges that the program is based on merit, with its requirement of a B average, and on need, with its limits on family income. So the only way left to discredit the idea is to say, without offering evidence, that the program will lead to grade inflation and lower standards. The logical conclusion of her argument is that some students are not cut out for college and would never get there unless high schools and colleges lowered standards.
We in California reject that gloomy assessment of our children and our schools. Gov. Gray Davis and the Legislature have demonstrated their belief that society is better served when our children are better educated.
 
JOHN MOCKLER
Sacramento, Sept. 26, 2000
 
The writer is California's interim secretary for education.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Chris Gash)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (88%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: ABIGAIL THERNSTROM (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



39 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1;Page 35;Column 1;Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: Online Delivery Sites Finding That Manhattan Can Be a Hard Place to Make It

BYLINE: By JAYSON BLAIR

 BODY:
Kozmo.com, which strives to be the 7-Eleven and Blockbuster of online delivery companies, started in Manhattan. Urbanfetch.com, one of its main competitors, has one of the strongest presences in the city. YourGrocer.com, an online supermarket that serves much of the New York region, gained its first footholds in TriBeCa and Greenwich Village.
They came for the density, the upscale customers and the advantage of not having to pay the high rents of their bricks-and-mortar competitors. City and state officials seem to be tripping over one another to offer grants and tax breaks to lure more of these desktop-to-doorstep companies, which deliver a range of items, including soap and DVD players, to New Yorkers. 
 But in all the furor to bring new businesses and jobs to New York, critics say that an important question is not being asked: Can the online delivery model work in Manhattan? The answer varies. But there seems to be a consensus on at least one thing: in Manhattan, success for these companies is going to be harder than it seemed.
"I'll be the first to tell you that Manhattan, specifically, is one of the most difficult areas for any kind of new consumer service," said Shawn Milne, a senior analyst at E*Offering, an online brokerage firm that sells Internet stocks. "It is very difficult logistically."
If the companies cannot succeed in Manhattan, some critics wonder whether it is a good idea for the state and city to provide them with economic incentives -- in effect, becoming venture capitalists with taxpayer money. Many online delivery companies have underestimated the difficulty of operating in Manhattan, the analysts said.
Urbanfetch, which Kozmo is considering acquiring, stopped renting movies in Manhattan and Brooklyn last month because the profit margin on each videotape or DVD was not high enough to justify the costs of delivery. Kozmo and Urbanfetch began requiring minimum orders. And YourGrocer.com moved to Elmsford, N.Y., last year to be able to focus better on suburban families in places like Westchester and in Fairfield County, Conn., executives said.
But the problems did not stop there. Call it revenge of the bricks and mortar. Several traditional grocery stores have begun their own delivery services to complement their regular business. As the logic goes, the most traditional grocery stores -- whose main business is done through their storefronts -- can afford to lose money in order to cut into the online companies' margins.
In November 1997, Allen MacCannell founded NYCGrocery.com in Lower Manhattan. The company went to local markets and shops, bundling the orders and then delivering them to customers' doorsteps. The company was unable to navigate Manhattan's traffic congestion and difficulties like doormen-staffed buildings unwilling to take deliveries when tenants were absent.
"Suburbs," said Mr. MacCannell, whose company was bought in 1999 by a venture capital fund that owned YourGrocer.com. "That's where you get the unbelievably good prices."
Many online companies thought that Manhattan's density would work to their advantage because they would be able to maximize profits by making dozens of deliveries in a small area in one trip.
But analysts say they believe that many of them did not anticipate some of the logistical challenges. Delivering items by bicycle can be more expensive than using vans, because couriers, who are paid by the hour, cannot carry as many items.
Analysts also thought that the high price of real estate in Manhattan would put the competitors of online delivery companies at a great disadvantage. What they have found, instead, is that the intangible benefits of not having a Manhattan storefront must be countered with a flurry of outreach efforts and advertising. Urbanfetch even tried opening a booth to give itself a physical presence in Pennsylvania Station.
Probably the most difficult challenge, analysts said, revolves around consumer habits: Manhattanites are often less likely to purchase in bulk, which decreases the profits made on each delivery.
"Kozmo and Urbanfetch were a good story when profits did not matter," said Ned Vickers, who is starting an online company, NEDexpress, that will team up with traditional retailers, like Fairway.
There are signs of hope, however. Kozmo, which delivers in 11 cities, has seen its revenues increase and expenses drop since it began reconfiguring parts of its business this year, laying off about 300 workers.
Gerry Burdo, the recently appointed president and acting chief executive of Kozmo, said average orders in Manhattan had reached about $18, up from $10 in January.
The company's highest expense, labor costs for couriers, who average about 2.5 deliveries an hour, has stayed at about $12 per hour. Other overhead costs -- rent at $10 to $12 per square foot, management costs, technology and others -- have led to deficits. But Kozmo officials, who refused to discuss their balance sheets in detail, expect to make a profit in Manhattan soon.
The keys, said officials at the company, which has four warehouses in Manhattan, are to increase the number of deliveries couriers make per trip and the amount each customer is paying per order, and to build warehouses that can quickly get orders off the shelves. (Kozmo's newest warehouse in Manhattan, on East 45th Street near First Avenue, can process every order in about one minute, officials said.)
Still, some in the industry have doubts. So, if online delivery companies already in Manhattan cannot seem to turn profits, some critics wonder whether it is a good idea for city and state officials to provide similar companies interested in the market with financial incentives.
Webvan, an online delivery company that was scheduled to open two large warehouses in the South Bronx and Bergen County, N.J., bringing more than 1,900 jobs to the region, has only fueled that argument. Two weeks ago the company, based in San Francisco, said it would delay its most immediate expansion plans, including the New Jersey warehouse.
Technology industry analysts said the delay also cast doubt on the company's plans for the Bronx warehouse, which was supposed to provide more than 900 jobs.
Richard Lipsky, a lobbyist for several small-business associations in New York City, said it made no sense to provide economic incentives to companies that had not proved long-term profitability. "The city is acting like an overeager novice investor," Mr. Lipsky said. "It is putting a lot of faith in companies that have not proven themselves."
Mitchell Moss, director of the Taub Urban Research Center at New York University, who has studied the effect of technology companies on urban areas, said government officials could be wasting their time providing some Internet companies with incentives.
"The traditional instruments to attract and retain businesses are designed for larger companies that have an established history," Mr. Moss said. "So, here when you are dealing with firms that are really at the embryonic stage, then you need to think a little more strategically."
Still, Charles Gargano, the chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, the state economic development agency, said there were ways to protect taxpayer money. "We don't pick and choose one industry over another," he said. "What we do is get a commitment that they are going to come to New York and create new jobs."
Michael Carey, the president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, said that the city had tried to research each of the Internet companies it had given incentives to, but that it was difficult to predict outcomes.
"There is no question that there are companies in this new-media world that may not make it," he said. "But if you look at what has happened in this industry in the last few years, it has become an important part of the city's economy."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 2, 2000, Monday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in some copies yesterday with an article about challenges facing online delivery companies in New York misspelled the name of one business with a strong presence in the city. It is Kozmo.com, not Kosmo.com.
 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The steps in a Kozmo.com delivery: left to right, items for an order are pulled from the shelves at a Kozmo.com warehouse on East 45th Street; the order is processed; and a bicycle messenger picks up the items for delivery. (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (58%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (58%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: 7-ELEVEN INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. CITY LIFE (90%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); ONLINE TRADING (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (69%); CD & DVD DRIVES (69%); SUBURBS (66%); VENTURE CAPITAL (64%); ACQUISITIONS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000



40 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: Pockets of Poverty

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Forget Washington. The Poor Cope Alone" (front page, Sept. 26):
New census figures released the other day show that poverty has declined nationwide. However, if one reads the smaller print, this decrease came from metropolitan areas. In Appalachia, the Mississippi Delta and most Indian reservations, poverty is endemic and intractable. There, in some cases, we find children living with no plumbing, no electricity, no heat, no books and little hope for the future. 
 We must marshal our government, private and nonprofit resources in a coordinated effort to provide children in rural America with the same opportunities as their counterparts in the cities and suburbs.
 
CATHERINE MILTON
Westport, Conn., Sept. 28, 2000
 
The writer is executive director of U.S. programs, Save the Children. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SAVE THE CHILDREN FOUNDATION SAVE THE CHILDREN (83%); SAVE THE CHILDREN (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAVE THE CHILDREN FOUNDATION SAVE THE CHILDREN (83%); SAVE THE CHILDREN (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; RURAL AREAS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); WRITERS (88%); CENSUS (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CITIES (70%); 

PERSON: MILTON, CATHERINE

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000



41 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Ernst & Young to Spin Off Business-Training Company
The accounting firm Ernst & Young plans to spin off its online corporate-training operations this week as part of a strategy to become a dominant player in the crowded online corporate-training industry.
Ernst & Young hopes that the independent company, Intellinex, will be able to grow more rapidly through acquisitions than it could if it remained a part of the parent firm. There are thought to be about 5,000 players, large and small, in the online business-training industry, with new entrants appearing almost weekly. No single company holds more than 5 percent of the market. Page C16. 

Ecompanies in Deal With Evercore
Ecompanies, the Internet incubator, is expected to announce today that it is combining its venture capital arm with the new economy operations of Evercore Capital Partners, the boutique investment firm in New York. C2.
 
Niche Magazine Loses Big Sponsor
The American Jewish Committee decided last week that it would pull its financial support for Common Quest, a magazine that explores the relations between blacks and Jews. An executive of the committee, which provided much of the money for the magazine, said it was exploring other ways to address the issue of relations between blacks and Jews. C17.
 
Stock and Debt Offerings Rebound
The market for debt and stock offerings rebounded in the third quarter. Investment banks raised $459 billion in the United States over the last three months. That is down 10 percent from $512 billion during the period a year earlier, but the latest totals are still robust enough to make it the ninth-busiest quarter on record, based on money raised. C2.
 
Electric Cars Seek to Set Record
Two electric cars with batteries made by Evonyx will depart this morning from Hawthorne, N.Y., in an attempt to make the 600-mile journey to Detroit without recharging. The feat would would smash the 373-mile record Solectria set in 1996. C8.
 
Divining the Nature of Business
With the emergence of the Internet economy has come new attention to the work of Ronald Coase, who sought to explain why businesses exist as they do -- why, for instance, they choose to produce some goods but contract with outside companies to provide the rest. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C12.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow industrials -- 10,650.92 down 196.45
Nasdaq composite -- 3,672.82 down 130.94
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.88% down 0.03
10-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.80% down 0.05
The euro -- $0.8826 up 0.0039
The dollar -- 108.02 yen up 0.18
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows construction spending figures from Feb.-July. (August figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time)
Expected: +0.5%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (91%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (91%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG LLP (91%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (90%); EVERCORE CAPITAL PARTNERS LLC (56%); AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE (56%); AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE (56%); AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (68%); INVESTMENT BANKING (68%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (68%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000



42 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: NEW ECONOMY;
With music widely available online, is it now time to tighten copyright laws or consider rewriting them to reflect reality?

BYLINE: By Amy Harmon 

 BODY:
IT was January when MP3.com copied tens of thousands of compact discs into a database to create a service that lets consumers listen to copies of music they already own from any computer connected to the Internet. And almost ever since, the company has argued that making those copies is legal under existing copyright law.
That argument has not made much headway in court, though. A federal judge ruled in April that MP3.com had infringed copyrights of the five major recording labels, and last month ruled that the company had done so willfully. Facing the grim prospect of paying more than $100 million in damages to the Universal Music Group, plus about $80 million in settlements with the four other record companies, MP3.com did the obvious: It hired a high-powered lobbyist. 
 The lobbyist is Billy Pitts, MP3's new vice president for legislative affairs, a former senior strategist for the Walt Disney Company with 20 years experience on Capitol Hill. He achieved fast results. Last week a Democratic representative from Virginia, Rick Boucher, and three Republican colleagues, introduced the Music Owners' Listening Rights Act of 2000. If passed, it would legalize the MP3.com service.
The proposed legislation is written so narrowly that it almost seems tailored to serve the specific interests of MP3.com. And no one thinks that it will pass before Congress recesses. But the bill is significant because, for the first time in this year's digital music wars, it raises the question of what is right rather than what is legal.
"What matters is whether new technologies are consistent with the theory of the copyright laws, not just consistent with the details of the copyright law," Mr. Boucher said in an interview. "The law should not stand in the way of an entirely legitimate technology that provides consumer convenience without costing the record companies anything."
Just what MP3.com's service, called My.MP3.com, has actually cost the recording companies has been unclear. Judge Jed S. Rakoff noted that the level of damages he awarded Universal, the only one of the labels to go to trial, was lower than it might otherwise have been because the company had made no effort to show that it had lost sales as a result of My.MP3.com.
The service allows a user to insert a compact disc briefly into a computer to prove ownership of the CD, then subsequently listen to a digital copy of the music already stored on MP3.com's computer, without having to go to the trouble of converting his or her own music into computer files. Some other services, like one provided by a company called myplay Inc., also allow users to listen to their own music from an online locker. But these other services require them to transfer the music onto a computer hard drive, convert it to a special file and upload it themselves.
For its part, MP3.com was found guilty of copying some 80,000 CD's onto its own computers for a purpose that did not fall under the "fair use" exemptions in current copyright law. But MP3.com argues that all it did was make it far easier for music fans without much technological skill to do what the Internet makes possible: have access to their own music, wherever they are.
Should My.MP3.com be legal? Or, as the recording industry and trade groups representing other copyright holders argued in a letter circulated among members of Congress last week, is the service simply an effort by MP3.com to "build a for-profit business using someone else's property"?
Regardless of the answer, what is novel about Representative Boucher's proposal is that the question might be debated somewhere other than in a courtroom -- assuming that the legislation is reintroduced in January. That would be a departure from the litigious wrangling that has tended to dominate the discourse on how culture will be manufactured and used in the digital age.
Today, for instance, the debate moves to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, where a three-judge panel is to decide whether Napster Inc. contributed to copyright infringement. Napster, of course, is the company whose file-sharing software has enabled millions of users to get copies of music they did not necessarily pay for.
The company's star lawyer, David Boies, who successfully argued the Justice Department's antitrust case against Microsoft last year, has lots of arguments why Napster is blameless. What if he's right? What if existing copyright law did not envision the ability to copy on the mass scale made possible by the Internet? Does that mean that such copying should be allowed, or should the law be modified?
Other coming court cases include the movie industry's lawsuit against Scour, a company that abets the trading of music and movies over the Internet. Another pending case is the appeal of a movie industry lawsuit against a Web site for publishing a program that cracked the copy-protection security code on DVD movie discs.
On the surface, the DVD case was as cut-and-dried as the My.MP3.com case. The movie studios had asked for, and received from Congress in the 1998 Digital Millennium Copyright Act, a statute that banned the distribution of such "anti-circumvention devices."
"They're trying to take away what Congress gave us," a lawyer for the motion picture industry said of the DVD case. "They can't do that."
But at a time when technology is evolving so rapidly and the stakes are so high over who can exercise how much control over copyrighted works, there may be cause for Congress to look more closely at the rights it has doled out in the past, and how those rights are being applied now.
Hilary B. Rosen, president of the Recording Industry Association of America, says that the Copyright Act is a "strict liability" law that prohibits all copying, except in cases that fall under the fair use doctrine. The copying of music that is common among friends, she told the Senate Judiciary Committee last summer, has traditionally been tolerated by musicians, who have chosen only to pursue those who try to profit from piracy.
Perhaps there is no place for such tolerance at a time when copying music has been made easy. Or maybe, if the music industry is no longer so tolerant, a new, legally enforceable standard should be considered.
Copyright experts say that perhaps more than any other statute, the Copyright Act has been updated over the years to ensure that the balance between copyright holders and copyright users remains fair to both. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act is simply the most recent example.
Ms. Rosen maintained in an interview that digital copyright issues are moving too fast for Congress to deal with.
"Next year I might have a totally different view," she said. "I might tell you Congress has to act, depending on how these cases get decided and if our rights get diminished. But I have a hard time believing this is going to get resolved anywhere but in the marketplace."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 105 P.L. 304 DIGITAL MILLENNIUM COPYRIGHT ACT (64%); 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (92%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (69%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (69%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (69%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MP3.COM CBS INTERACTIVE INC (92%); WALT DISNEY CO (69%); UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MP3.COM

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; LAW AND LEGISLATION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COPYRIGHTS LEGISLATION (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); COPYRIGHT LAW (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COPYRIGHT (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); INTERNET AUDIO (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); MUSIC (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); JUDGES (76%); DAMAGES (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (71%); 

PERSON: BOUCHER, RICK (REPR); HARMON, AMY RICK BOUCHER (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000



43 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: E-COMMERCE REPORT;
A Nobel Prize-winning idea, conceived in the 30's, is a guide for Net business.

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi 

 BODY:
ROUGHLY 68 years ago this week, a 21-year-old professor by the name of Ronald Coase gave a lecture to students of the School of Economics and Commerce in Dundee, Scotland. He explained why businesses exist as they do -- why, for, instance, they choose to produce some goods themselves and contract with outside companies to provide the rest.
Five years later, in 1937, Mr. Coase turned the lecture into a paper, "The Nature of the Firm," which in 1991 was cited by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences as it awarded him the Nobel Prize for economics. Despite that fame, Mr. Coase's ideas on the nature of business were rarely mentioned inside corporate boardrooms and executive offices. 
Then came the Internet economy.
Mr. Coase, now a professor emeritus at the University of Chicago's law school, has recently witnessed a revival of his ideas, particularly among dot-com executives and leaders of established companies as they forge Internet initiatives. And though his theories do not provide a road map for e-commerce success, they do provide a compass for executives whose strategic vision has been blurred by a sandstorm of alliance offers, shifting business models and new competition.
"What Coase -- and everything that follows from him -- helps us do is answer the question, 'What's the boundary of the firm, and how hard should that boundary be?' " said Charles Conn, chairman of Ticketmaster Online/CitySearch. "It helps you think about things like whether to buy, build or partner."
At the core of Mr. Coase's theory is this notion: When a company tries to determine whether to farm out or instead produce goods or services on its own, market prices are not the sole factor. Rather, there are significant "transaction costs," in Mr. Coase's language, generated by the search for the right company to strike a supply agreement with, and the time and expense of cutting the deal. Those costs, he theorized, frequently determine whether or not a company will seek an outside supplier or service provider.
At the time Mr. Coase wrote his theory, transaction costs were prohibitively high. Because information flowed at a glacial pace, and supplies moved only slightly faster, companies strove to manage the entire chain of production within the walls of their own corporations. For instance, the Ford Motor Company, a paragon of the "vertically integrated" corporation of the early 1900's, once bought a rubber plantation rather than cede control of that part of tire manufacturing.
Sixty years later, transaction costs have plunged, thanks to the Internet. Within the so-called new economy, information itself is typically the product, and that information moves at the speed of a T1 line. As a result, companies can get complete information about potential suppliers and business partners within a few clicks, and can therefore set up supplier agreements or form alliances with other companies for a fraction of what it would have cost even a decade ago.
That, in turn, helps explain why Internet companies have cluttered the airwaves with alliance announcements in the last two years. Of course, part of that owes to the fact that before the dot-com bubble burst, Internet companies frequently trotted out alliance partners as a way of building pre-I.P.O. buzz. But analysts say that even with the window-dressing alliances, Mr. Coase's theory still holds: with diminished transaction costs, more alliances are inevitable.
"With lower transaction costs, companies are able to focus on narrow product slivers or business activities, and have other parties do the rest," said David Ernst, leader of the global alliances practice of McKinsey & Company, the consulting firm.
The implications are that "there are a lot more big winners -- and big losers," Mr. Ernst said. "Because if you have a network of partners you can attract incremental business, and plug the revenues back into your core business," he added. "But if you don't, then you're the one whose market share is getting taken away."
David Jefferds, co-founder of CyberElves, a Web development company with about 40 employees, said he understood the pressure to partner up. "Since we're a small-to-medium sized company, we don't have every skill set, like Web hosting," he said. "And we could probably target that by partnering with firms, getting expertise, and then making the buy-versus-build decision."
But an alliance "isn't always necessarily a perfect fit, because you're still referring your client to someone else," Mr. Jefferds said. "So you're taking a risk with a client that you're really not compensated for," he added.
Mr. Ernst, of McKinsey, said that managing alliances was critical, "because the outcome of your business depends increasingly on how you do that." Still, he said, most companies have "mixed results with their alliances and are struggling to be pro-active, amidst a huge deal flow."
Rather than have a one- or two-person business development staff overseeing partnership programs, Mr. Ernst said companies should "invest more heavily in building the business development staff to track the performance of each alliance, and link those performance metrics to the corporation's overall performance metrics." But, he said, fewer than one in four are doing such things.
Of course, managing alliances is sometimes a strange science, particularly given the array of relationships that can result from an alliance network. Mr. Conn, of Ticketmaster Online, pointed out that among his company's alliances, two were with competitors, Yahoo and The Denver Post. "In the old economy, the question was, 'Compete or buy?' " he said. "Now, anything goes."
As for how to manage the boundaries of his own company and the dozen or so companies he has invested in, Mr. Conn said he applied Mr. Coase's theory about transaction costs to a few other truths of the modern economy. "Now that workers are the principal source of a company's cost, and they're all shareholders, there's a real advantage of having people see the value of their work on a daily basis," he said. "So where that's true, there's an advantage to having a smaller operation."
To maintain that spirit, he said, "it often makes sense to have alliances and partnerships, rather than buy and merge."
For his part, Mr. Coase predicts that understanding transaction costs in the new economy will bring people back to the ideas of the economist Adam Smith. "It enables you to have more specialization and greater production, because you're more efficient," he said in a telephone interview from his home in Chicago. "You'll get more small firms as a result, but large firms will also get larger, because they can concentrate on core activities and contract out what they can't do well."
For all the attention his theory is getting in the dot-com context, Mr. Coase, 89, said he was not paying much attention to e-commerce. "So much is wrong with economics that I'm trying to correct some other things now," he said. "And one doesn't need to study the actuarial tables to know there isn't a lot of time for that."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronald Coase outside his home on the Near North Side of Chicago. Now 89, he said that despite the revived attention he is receiving, e-commerce is hardly his priority. "So much is wrong with economics," he said, "that I'm trying to correct some other things now." (Steve Kagan for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (82%); F (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: SCOTLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (87%); SWEDEN (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (87%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (82%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SCOTLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (87%); SWEDEN (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (87%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ECONOMICS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES AWARDS & PRIZES (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); OUTSOURCING (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (69%); TIRE MFG (60%); 

PERSON: COASE, RONALD (PROF); TEDESCHI, BOB RONALD COASE (94%); DAVID ERNST (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000



44 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: Ecompanies In a Venture Merger Plan

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON 

DATELINE: SANTA MONICA, Calif., Oct. 1

 BODY:
Ecompanies, an Internet incubator, is expected to announce on Monday that it is combining its venture capital arm with the new economy operations of Evercore Capital Partners, a boutique investment firm in New York.
Austin Beutner, a founding partner at Evercore -- which advised CBS on its merger with Viacom and has investments in, among other things, the owner of The National Enquirer -- has been named chief executive of the new group. It is to be called Ecompanies-Evercore Venture Partners, said Jake Winebaum, co-founder of Ecompanies. Mr. Beutner will remain a senior partner at Evercore and be based in Los Angeles. 
 The move is an interesting one, especially for the year-old Ecompanies, which provides soup-to-nuts services for bringing companies to market in as little as 60 days, but has yet to prove such a strategy is financially successful. In recent months, other more established venture capital firms have begun working with old economy financial buyers, like Evercore, who make their money by taking stakes in companies they help run.
Most notably, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, famous for the 1989 buyout of RJR Nabisco, teamed up with Accel Partners, a technology investment firm based in Palo Alto, Calif. But younger private concerns like Ecompanies have been dogged by Wall Street as investors become more finicky about what ideas they will support. Ecompanies Venture Group already has $160 million under management. But this summer, industry analysts said it ran into resistance when it tried to raise a second round of financing.
Mr. Winebaum said he met his longtime friend Mr. Beutner when they were classmates at Dartmouth in the early 1980's. In April, when the two were on a skiing trip, Mr. Winebaum said the idea came up that the two work together. "There is a lot of rationale for doing this," Mr. Winebaum said. "The Internet as a concept will disappear in two to three years as it becomes more integrated. New companies need Old Economy expertise."
What they need most these days are relationships with old economy concerns, especially as companies like Wal-Mart and Toys "R" Us have become smarter in building their own Internet strategies and are challenging Web upstarts. "Evercore can help us there," Mr. Winebaum said. He would not say how big a stake Evercore will have in the operations. But in addition to being chief executive of the new group, Mr. Buetner will also become the third partner in Ecompanies. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (69%); VIA (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (55%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (55%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (52%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: ECOMPANIES; EVERCORE CAPITAL PARTNERS LLC; ECOMPANIES-EVERCORE VENTURE PARTNERS KKR & CO LP (69%); VIACOM INC (58%); EVERCORE CAPITAL PARTNERS LLC (58%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (55%); KRAFT NABISCO (55%); TOYS 'R' US INC (52%); ECOMPANIES VENTURE GROUP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECOMPANIES; EVERCORE CAPITAL PARTNERS LLC; ECOMPANIES-EVERCORE VENTURE PARTNERS ECOMPANIES VENTURE GROUP (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES VENTURE CAPITAL (92%); MERGERS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); EQUITY FINANCING (78%); FINANCING ROUNDS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); SKIING (67%); 

PERSON: HOLSON, LAURA M JAKE WINEBAUM (93%); AUSTIN BEUTNER (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000



45 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Beijing Protest By Falun Sect Brings Arrest Of Hundreds

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Oct. 1

 BODY:
Hundreds of followers of the banned Falun Gong spiritual movement were arrested at Tiananmen Square in Beijing today, China's National Day, after recent instructions from their United States-based leader to "step forward" and "achieve consummation" by facing imprisonment or death.
In what has become a well-rehearsed ritual, plainclothes police officers sprinted from spot to spot in the crowded square, ripping down Falun Gong banners, pummeling followers and hustling the protesters into waiting police vans. 
 Hundreds of people were arrested from among tens of thousands of holiday tourists, said witnesses and Western news reports. The police cleared and closed part of the square for nearly an hour at one point during the day to stop the protests.
Falun Gong followers are arrested at the square almost daily after brief, largely unnoticed acts of protest -- usually attempts to unfurl a small banner or to sit in the lotus position to begin the discipline's yogalike exercises.
The numbers of protesters has generally increased on national holidays or significant dates in the group's year-and-a-half-long struggle with the government.
The protests today, on the 51st anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China, were the group's largest and best coordinated since Falun Gong was banned as an "evil cult" in July of last year. They came as the group's leader, Li Hongzhi, has been espousing an increasingly activist attitude.
"I'm happy for those disciples who have stepped forward," Mr. Li said in comments that were recently posted on the group's official Web site, clearwisdom.net, and which the Web site says were transcribed from a talk he gave on Sept. 24.
"Whether they are imprisoned or lose their human lives for persevering in dafa cultivation, they achieve consummation."
Dafa translates as great law and refers to the cosmology that Mr. Li lays out in his writings and to the discipline he prescribes for achieving enlightenment. Drawing from Buddhist and Taoist traditions, that cosmology describes multiple dimensions and alien beings, apocalyptic events and segregated paradises for the world's various races.
It struck a chord with many people in China, where the Communists' once unifying ideology is now ignored and where a turn toward market economics has embittered those who feel disfranchised after decades of sacrifice.
Falun Gong is also one manifestation of a growing desire for charismatic spiritual leadership in China during a period of rapid social change. While the Communist Party allows five state-sanctioned religions to operate, its requirement that religious leaders be approved by the state has kept those religions bland and passive.
A steady stream of more dynamic spiritual leaders has appeared in recent years to fill the void, from self-styled spiritual masters like Mr. Li to mystical Buddhist monks, underground Christian preachers and a network of priests loyal to the pope rather than the Patriotic Catholic Church of China, which forbids fidelity to Rome.
China's leaders, evidently fearful that true freedom of religion would increase pressure for political freedom and threaten the Communist Party's monopoly on power, have cracked down on any of the groups whose organization has grown too large. Falun Gong, which at its peak said it had tens of millions of followers, became a prime target of the crackdown after 10,000 adherents gathered outside the government's leadership compound in Beijing in April 1999.
An ensuing propaganda campaign, together with widespread arrests and pressure from employers, stopped the movement's rapid growth and even shrank its numbers. But it also hardened a core of believers in China, won the movement international support and galvanized adherents abroad.
The group has grown increasingly sophisticated in its challenge to China's government and its efforts to gather followers outside China. Its public face, for example, presented through Web sites, press releases and radio broadcasts, has been represented as a middle-class spiritual movement and human rights cause rather than a mystical movement from China.
Web sites with "falun dafa" or "falun gong" in the Internet addresses now carry photographs of middle-class Westerners performing the movement's exercises instead of the spinning swastikas and portrait of Mr. Li that they carried earlier this year.
Mr. Li's writings on alien invasions, levitation, mankind's destruction and the evils of racial intermarriage, meanwhile, have been moved to other Web sites that nonbelievers are less likely to stumble across. One of those sites carries Mr. Li's latest comments, in which he criticizes followers who are afraid to confront China's police.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chinese policemen in newly issued uniforms detained a Falun Gong follower, gagging her with her protest banner at Tiananmen Square. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); EAST CHINA (78%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (78%); 

COMPANY: FALUN GONG (SPIRITUAL MOVEMENT) COMMUNIST PARTY (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: FALUN GONG (SPIRITUAL MOVEMENT) COMMUNIST PARTY (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); EAST CHINA (78%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (78%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; RELIGIOUS CULTS; FREEDOM OF RELIGION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS CULTS & SECTS (92%); RELIGION (92%); ARRESTS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (76%); CHRONOLOGIES (75%); TAOISTS & TAOISM (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); RIOTS (71%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (67%); WEB SITES (63%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (62%); POLITICS (60%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CRAIG S; LI HONGZHI LI HONGZHI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000



46 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: POLITICAL MEMO;
Bush's Words Resound With Echoes of Reagan

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., Oct. 1

 BODY:
To make the case that a politician who supports more federal programs cannot also support more power for the middle class, Gov. George W. Bush said two weeks ago that voters did not simply have to take his word for it.
They could listen to Ronald Reagan, who once said, "You can't be for big government, big bureaucracy, and still be for the little guy." 
 On Friday, giving a speech on energy, Mr. Bush quoted Mr. Reagan at even greater length, asserting that the same questions Mr. Reagan had raised about President Jimmy Carter in the 1980 presidential race applied this time around to Vice President Al Gore.
These tributes to the only Republican president since 1960 to serve for two full terms did not seem coincidental.
Between those references, Mr. Bush summoned the memory of President Reagan, either directly or indirectly, at least four other times.
On Saturday he did it again, telling the audience at the annual conference of the Christian Coalition, "Like Ronald Reagan, I believe that the freedom we cherish ultimately depends on the values our families teach."
More than ever before, Mr. Bush is tightly embracing Mr. Reagan and practically smothering him with affection and reverence.
The timing is interesting. The coming series of debates, like the election itself, pits Mr. Bush, who has long assumed that he has a personality advantage, against Mr. Gore, who taps a seemingly greater command of policy details. Can anyone say Reagan-Carter in 1980, or Reagan-Mondale in 1984?
Republican officials with ties to the Bush campaign can, noting that one of Mr. Bush's best hopes in the debates is to trump his opponent with charm, conviction and an aura of authentic and affable leadership, much as Mr. Reagan did.
Mr. Bush, too, seems conscious of the parallels. In Orlando, Fla., a week ago, he derided what he said was the latest in a series of exaggerations and distortions by Mr. Gore with the phrase "There he went again." It pointedly echoed a famous line Mr. Reagan used in a debate against Mr. Carter.
In an interview with MSNBC around the same time, Mr. Bush responded to a question about why some people label him a lightweight by saying, "I take great comfort in the fact that they said the same thing about President Ronald Reagan."
And later, on CNN, Mr. Bush said: "I remember what they did to Ronald Reagan. They belittled him and said, 'Oh, he can't possibly be smart enough to be president of the United States. He is simply an actor.' The man turned out to be a great president."
Several of Mr. Bush's aides said there was no intricately plotted, overarching strategy at work.
They said Mr. Bush had quoted Mr. Reagan in the speech two weeks ago because he was addressing a Republican gathering in California, where Mr. Reagan had been governor.
And Mr. Bush quoted Mr. Reagan in the energy speech on Friday, they said, because Mr. Bush's argument against Mr. Gore was so much like the one Mr. Reagan had made against President Carter, who emphasized conserving energy over expanding the supply.
"We did, to some extent, want to raise, for the people who remembered it, the specter of what was going on in the late 1970's," the adviser said, referring to the energy shortages and long gas lines that helped undo Mr. Carter. Mr. Bush has used rising fuel costs to imply that the Clinton administration is bringing the country to the brink of similar woes.
But several of Mr. Bush's advisers and other Republican strategists noted that there were additional reasons for him to refer to Mr. Reagan.
Like Mr. Reagan, Mr. Bush is trying to persuade an electorate that does not necessarily prefer his positions and policies that he would be a better, more optimistic, more inspiring leader. Mr. Reagan talked about "morning in America"; Mr. Bush occasionally quotes a Texas artist who talked about living on "the sunrise side" of the mountain.
Like Mr. Reagan, Mr. Bush is selling a sweeping tax cut as economically healthy, and after President Reagan signed such legislation, the economy did improve. Mr. Bush has repeatedly credited that development as the wellspring of today's prosperity, neglecting to mention that federal debt ballooned.
Of course, it is customary for a candidate who wants to be his party's leader in the future to talk about the party's leaders from the past, and Mr. Bush's choices from the last few decades are limited.
Neither President Nixon nor President Ford will do. As for the Republican president who succeeded Mr. Reagan, well, that strikes a little too close to home, fueling potentially unhelpful chatter about dynasties and filial advantages.
"Obviously, he doesn't want to talk about his own dad, because it's too self-serving," said John McLaughlin, a Republican pollster. "And it's already there, implied, all the time -- it's the brand name." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRISTIAN COALITION (56%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN COALITION (56%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; DEBATING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BRUNI, FRANK; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (89%); JIMMY CARTER (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000



47 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Texas Oyster Industry Hurt As Red Tide Sweeps Coast

BYLINE: By ROSS E. MILLOY 

DATELINE: SMITH POINT, Tex., Oct. 1

 BODY:
On an ordinary Saturday in oyster season, Jeri Nelson's ramshackle docks here on Galveston Bay would be bustling: boats pulling up to unload their catches, fishermen pitching crates of oysters onto conveyor belts, workers busy in the shucking house, 18-wheel trucks shuttling out with loads of fresh oysters on the way to market.
But this Saturday was anything but ordinary, and Mrs. Nelson sat in the deserted offices of Jeri's Seafoods using nautical charts to track the spread of red tide, a toxic algae bloom that forced Texas officials last month to close Galveston Bay to oyster fishing. 
 "It's in West Bay, East Bay, Trinity Bay, Matagorda Bay and down here in Espiritu Santo Bay," said Mrs. Nelson, who has been in the oyster business since 1961. "It's all over the gulf, and down south, that's not so unusual. But this is the first time we've ever had it in Galveston Bay."
David Buzan, a spokesman for the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department, said nearly 300 miles of coast from Smith Point south to Corpus Christi are suffering from red tide, which is caused by a microscopic organism called Gymnodinium breve that releases toxins and depletes oxygen from the water.
The organism kills fish, contaminates shellfish, irritates eyes and respiratory systems in humans and turns seawater the color of rust, Mr. Buzan said.
"We know we've lost several million fish so far, but it's still too early to get an accurate picture of what is happening out there on the water," he said. "Unfortunately, we have no idea of how long it's going to last."
Red tides killed more than 21 million fish in 1986 and again in 1997, and caused hundreds of millions of dollars in losses for the $1 billion-a-year Texas fishing industry, he said.
"My sense is that this event will not be as bad as those," Mr. Buzan said, "but only time will tell."
A significant rainfall would reduce salinity levels in Texas bays and kill the algae, Mr. Buzan said, and a hard freeze would inhibit its growth. "But it's been so long since we've seen rain in Texas that you hate to hang your hat on that hope," he said. And in Smith Point, hard freezes are as infrequent as a smog-free view of Houston across the bay.
Though the oyster season in Texas was scheduled to reopen on Nov. 1, unless the red tide is gone by then, "there's a strong likelihood that all these bays will remain closed," Mr. Buzan said. "The economic losses will undoubtedly be significant."
Mrs. Nelson's business has already been hurt. Her husband and brother have taken the family's four fishing boats to Louisiana to find oysters, their two refrigerated trucks stand idle in the parking lot, and she is struggling to find work for her 120 employees, a difficult task in this village of about 200 residents.
"It's hard right now," she said. "My workers aren't able to make their bills."
Mrs. Nelson said she was trying to keep her customers supplied by buying oysters from other dealers and reselling them, "but we're not making any money that way."
"It's a losing battle," she said, "and I'm not sure how long we can hold out."
When Galveston Bay is open to oystering, Mrs. Nelson normally ships 3,000 to 7,000 pounds of oysters a day; now she is lucky to ship that many in a week, she said.
Across East Galveston Bay at the Hornbeck Seafood Company in Port Bolivar, Ronnie Hornbeck, 60, said this was the worst red tide he had seen in more than 50 years. "It's just killed the hell out of the fish, and the worst is yet to come," he said.
Texas' prolonged drought and record-breaking summer heat, which deprived bays of fresh water and encouraged growth of the red tide, have combined with an unusual influx of seagrass to choke fish in the water, Mr. Hornbeck said.
Because red tide tends to stay on top of the water, he said, migrating fish have been particularly hard hit.
Mr. Hornbeck said that migrating fish move into shallow water to spawn beneath the layer of water affected by Gymnodinium breve and are trapped when the tide falls.
The fall migration of flounder has started, he said, and thousands of the fish have been killed. He said that along one stretch of shore last week, he had seen a five-mile-long, two-foot-wide line of dead fish.
"My shrimpers coming in from offshore in the gulf are telling me that they're seeing acres and acres of dead fish floating for miles on the surface out there," Mr. Hornbeck said. He estimated that 50 million pounds of fish have been killed, most of which have been forage fish without significant commercial value.
"The good news is that the fishing around here next year is going to be great, because we're getting rid of a lot of the trash fish that eat the eggs and young of gamefish like trout and redfish," he said.
Though hotels on Galveston Island have reported no cancellations, residents have noticed the red tide.
"It choked me up something terrible," said Alton Cripps, a retired ship captain from Port Bolivar. "I made an appointment with a doctor because I thought sure I was dying, but then I saw in the paper where it was just that old red tide. Now, I'm just going to wait it out."
How long he will have to wait is anyone's guess.
"These things are not very well understood," said Mike Ordner, an assistant director for seafood safety at the Texas Department of Health. "Breve likes salty water, and the only thing that will help is enough fresh water to flush out the bays."
Mrs. Nelson said: "God forgive me for saying it, but we need a good hurricane. One nice, big hurricane. That's all we need."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Larry D. Hodge of Marble Falls, Tex., looked at fish killed by red tide that washed up on Matagorda Island last week in South Texas. (Ron Henry Strait/San Antonio Express-News)
 
Map of Texas shows the location of Smith Point: Red tide on Texas' coast has hurt Smith Point's oyster industry.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (95%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; UNITED STATES (95%); TEXAS, USA (95%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; OYSTERS; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; RED TIDE; DROUGHT; WEATHER SEAWEED & ALGAE (91%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); SHELLFISH FISHING (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); WATER POLLUTION (75%); WILDLIFE (67%); SMOG (60%); 

PERSON: MILLOY, ROSS E JERI NELSON (91%); DAVID BUZAN (77%); RONNIE HORNBECK (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000



48 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: At Odds in Alabama Over a Landfill on a Historic Trail

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

DATELINE: HAYNEVILLE, Ala., Oct. 1

 BODY:
Other than scruffy banks of pine and poplar, and the occasional barbecue house and gas station, the rolling land along the highway that stretches from Selma to Montgomery offers little more than its rich red Alabama soil and the collective memory of its people.
For some, the bounty of this land lies in its Selma chalk soil. They call it "mother nature's cement," a tightly packed clay said to be ideally suited for a landfill. That is exactly what a businessman, a friend of the Alabama governor, has proposed to build off Highway 80, with a promise to accept no garbage from outside Alabama and to share his proceeds with destitute Lowndes County. Local politicians, pinning their hopes on the landfill to bring revenue and a few jobs to a county where nearly 40 percent of the 13,000 residents live below the poverty line, have approved his proposal. 
 For others here, the wealth of this land is its place in the civil rights movement. It was here, along Highway 80, in March 1965, that a 54-mile march, from Selma to Montgomery, led to the passage of the 1965 Voting Rights Act. Along this highway, black farmers let the marchers camp overnight on their land. Here, the day after the march, a civil rights volunteer, a Detroit housewife named Viola Liuzzo, was gunned down. And along this highway, black sharecroppers, evicted for daring register to vote, built a settlement called Tent City.
Some of these spots have been marked since the National Park Service designated this stretch of Highway 80 a national historic trail. Since then, too, many people here have dreamed of one day seeing hotels and restaurants dot the highway, drawing tourists and creating jobs. To them and to many more people outside, including the Rev. Jesse Jackson, who spoke at an anti-dump rally last month, and John Lewis, a congressman from Georgia who marched in 1965, a dump is the ultimate affront, a case of environmental racism.
"It's an insult," said Bob Mants, who also marched alongside Mr. Lewis as an organizer with the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee and who now heads the Lowndes County Friends of the Trail. "You can't commemorate it on the one hand and desecrate it on the other."
And yet, this is not a duel of old-time Deep South enemies. Unlike many things in Alabama, the fight over the landfill has divided traditional allies and united blacks and whites on both sides. In fact, everybody in this fight seems eager to display their own civil rights stripes.
The landfill's most vocal champion, for instance, is John Hulett, the county's first black sheriff, now the probate judge and the county's de facto political boss. Mr. Hulett, 72, helped erect Tent City and establish the country's first black political party, Lowndes County Freedom Party. The county commission that approved the proposed landfill in 1998, convinced that it would not affect the civil rights trail because it would be set back from the highway by at least 500 feet, has a black majority. The lawyers representing the county in the landfill case work for the firm of Henry Sanders, a black state senator and a civil rights stalwart.
Meanwhile, as Mr. Hulett points out with relish, landfill opponents include the residents of the tony, overwhelmingly white town of Lowndesboro, who, he says, have never cared about the county's black majority. "We didn't have any white participation in the civil rights movement in this town," Mr. Hulett snapped, sitting in his office here in the county seat. "Suddenly, it's the trail they're interested in."
For his part, the Lowndesboro mayor, John H. Nichols, 66, a white man, points to his civil rights credentials: He was a national guardsman circling the Edmund Pettus Bridge in a helicopter, watching as marchers were beaten. "Then I realized, we are not free," Mr. Nichols recalled the other evening. "That trail is as much mine as it is anybody's. I was there."
Landfills are a major source of revenue for Alabama. There are 25 dumps statewide that take household waste alone. Much of it comes from out of state; Alabamans produce only a third of the landfills' capacity of 31,500 tons daily. The issue of non-Alabama trash has become a favorite target of some politicians. Earlier this year, Gov. Donald Siegelman opposed a proposed landfill in Macon County -- since withdrawn -- because it would have accepted out-of-state trash.
The governor has remained silent on the Lowndes site, to be developed by Lanny Young, a Montgomery businessman, race-car team owner and political consultant who is a friend and former roommate of the governor's chief of staff, Paul Hamrick. Mr. Young's company already collects Lowndes County trash. His political consulting firm represents Waste Management Inc., one of the country's biggest landfill companies.
Mr. Young acquired land and a state permit for another landfill, in Cherokee County, and quickly sold it at what he called a handsome profit.
The state environmental agency has approved his proposed 200-acre, $6.8 million landfill, which would bring in a maximum of 1,500 tons of household garbage and construction debris into a shallow valley encircled by a ridge of pine and oak.
His development is at a standstill now. Residents have appealed to a state agency that oversees state permits for landfills. Mr. Young has sued officials from the town of Lowndesboro, who claim that they should have some legal authority over the project; the landfill would fall within the town's police jurisdiction but outside town limits. Mr. Young recently declared personal bankruptcy, but said it will not affect the plans for the project.
The county, he said, could gain up to $350,000 a year, a considerable sum for Lowndes and roughly 5 percent of the landfill's expected gross revenues. Mr. Young would also donate 30 acres for archaeological digs and build a kiosk on the highway to display Lowndes history.
Quemeller Lane, 54, whose family has lived in Burkville, just west of the dump site, for over a century, had not known much about the civil rights struggles here, or about the 1965 march, until she moved here from Pensacola, Fla., 26 years ago. To learn it filled her with pride.
"To have this honor, this prestige, this highway being named a national trail, and they come along and they say, 'We'll show what we think of this,' and put a dump on it," Ms. Lane said. "I just think it's awful."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Quemeller Lane, left, and Barbara Evans, who oppose landfill plans. "It's awful," Ms. Lane said. (Jamie Martin for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (98%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (54%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (54%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOWNDES COUNTY (ALA); UNITED STATES; ALABAMA; SELMA (ALA); UNITED STATES (98%); ALABAMA, USA (98%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DISCRIMINATION; LANDFILL; LABOR; ELECTIONS LANDFILLS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); COUNTIES (88%); RACE & RACISM (87%); HISTORIC SITES (86%); LEGISLATION (78%); EVICTION (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); POLITICS (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ELECTION LAW (72%); NATIONAL PARKS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (71%); APPROVALS (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); TRENDS (65%); RESTAURANTS (64%); PROBATE (64%); HOTELS & MOTELS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: SENGUPTA, SOMINI JOHN LEWIS (77%); JESSE JACKSON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000



49 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: CAMPAIGN 2000: TODAY -- ENERGY;
The Politics of Fuel

 BODY:
The sharp rise in oil prices over the last few months has given energy issues new and unexpected prominence in the presidential campaign. But what ought to be a serious debate has been marred by unedifying accusations about who deserves blame for allowing America to sink further into "dependence on foreign oil." Gov. George W. Bush says the Democrats have inhibited oil exploration with their environmental and tax policies. Vice President Al Gore says the Republicans have allowed "big oil" to put profits ahead of the American consumer. All this has diverted attention from two inconvenient truths about America's energy problem.
First, the notion that the United States can "free" itself from foreign oil is absurd. America consumes about one-quarter of the world's oil supply but possesses less than 4 percent of the world's reserves, and much of the economically recoverable domestic oil has been identified. About half of the oil consumed in America now comes from foreign sources, and this figure is likely to rise rather than fall. The task, therefore, is not to engage in a futile debate over energy "independence" but to find new ways of managing dependence. 
 The second and related truth is that the demand side of the energy equation is as important, if not more so, than the supply side. If Americans want stable prices and greater protection from market manipulation, they and their elected representatives will have to pay far more attention to conservation, finding new ways to use energy more efficiently.
The supply side cannot, of course, be ignored. Domestic oil production is plainly not the answer to the country's energy needs, and for economic and environmental reasons, nuclear and hydroelectric power cannot be expected to take up the slack. But there is still plenty of oil available to American companies outside the United States -- in Africa and the Caspian Sea, for example. In North America, especially the Gulf of Mexico and Canada, there are also substantial supplies of natural gas. Indeed, natural gas has become the fuel of choice for most American homeowners and the electric power industry, which plans to use it to run more than 90 percent of the power plants now on the drawing boards. Both candidates have recommended new incentives to encourage drilling for natural gas.
Inevitably, however, any sensible energy strategy will also require conservation, a matter on which Congress and the public need serious educating, and on which presidential leadership will therefore be crucial. This Congress has been unable to pass legislation governing the restructuring of the electric power industry. It has been openly contemptuous of the Kyoto agreement aimed at reducing emissions from fossil fuels and thus reducing dependence on fossil fuels. It could not even agree on a modest tax incentive for more fuel-efficient buildings. Meanwhile, the astounding popularity of ever-larger S.U.V.'s and other light trucks has reversed a 20-year trend of improved fuel efficiency.
The differences between the two candidates on energy issues are pronounced. Mr. Bush sought to narrow these differences in a major address on Friday, calling for $1.4 billion in tax credits over 10 years to encourage electricity generation from alternative fuels. He also said he would spend $2 billion over 10 years for "clean coal" technologies, aimed at exploiting the country's huge supplies of cheap but polluting supplies of coal.
But his strategy still relies mainly on increasing supply, including uncontroversial ideas like streamlining regulatory restrictions on pipeline construction and hugely controversial ideas like opening the coastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling. According to the latest government estimates, the mean estimate of economically recoverable oil in the plain is 3.2 billion barrels. Environmentalists and Mr. Gore do not think it is worth defacing a pristine wilderness for what amounts to about six months' worth of oil.
For his part, Mr. Gore has offered a dizzying array of proposals aimed at increased energy efficiency. These include generous tax credits for more fuel-efficient buildings and factories, and for consumers who buy fuel-efficient vehicles and appliances. In addition, Mr. Gore proposes major federal investments in light rail systems and various public-private partnerships, including a Gore favorite, the Partnership for a New Generation of Vehicles, which is aimed at developing cars and trucks that run on batteries or fuel cells.
In dollar terms, Mr. Gore's energy proposals would cost about $50 billion over 10 years, dwarfing Mr. Bush's $7.1 billion. But dollars do not accurately define this debate. Mr. Gore believes that consumption is the main problem. Mr. Bush thinks that production is the main answer. This is as clear a difference as one can find in this campaign. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CASPIAN SEA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); AFRICA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CASPIAN SEA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ELECTION ISSUES; EDITORIALS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SURVEYS AND SERIES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); NATURAL GAS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); TAX LAW (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); POWER PLANTS (73%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); TAX INCENTIVES (71%); HOMEOWNERS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (62%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (61%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000



50 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Kennedy and La Guardia Lag in New Jobs

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW 

 BODY:
An increase in flight delays at Kennedy International and La Guardia Airports, inadequate cargo facilities and chronic traffic congestion around both airports have caused them to lose much of their competitive edge to other major American airports, and have cost Queens an opportunity to add jobs, according to a report released yesterday.
The report, by the Center for an Urban Future, a nonprofit research and advocacy group, said that both airports have experienced slower growth in passenger travel than most major American airports. It added that the cargo industry at Kennedy has been hurt by a space shortage that has led many airlines to move their shipping operations. 
 In 1991, the report showed, Kennedy -- which still serves more international passengers than any other airport in the country -- was the nation's seventh busiest passenger airport and the world's busiest cargo hub. By 1999, it was the 14th busiest passenger airport and the world's fifth busiest cargo airport, according to the report.
La Guardia, where the Federal Aviation Administration last week said delays had more than doubled in the last year, was the 15th busiest passenger airport in 1991 and the 20th in 1999.
Other airports have created thousands of jobs in the last decade, including Newark International Airport, which has added 10,718 jobs since 1989 -- a 79 percent increase. But during the same period, employment declined at Kennedy and grew moderately at La Guardia.
In 1999, the two airports employed 47,000 people in what are known as on-airport jobs: mechanic, ticket agent, restaurant worker and baggage handler. An additional 270,000 people held airport-related jobs, including travel agent and truck and taxi driver, the report showed.
The on-airport jobs at Kennedy have declined by 9 percent, or 3,578 jobs, since 1989, the report said, while the number of those jobs at have risen at La Guardia by 14 percent, or 1,204 jobs. The report said that job growth at other major airports, including Miami International Airport and O'Hare International Airport in Chicago, far outpaced that of New York City's airports.
Officials with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates La Guardia, Kennedy and Newark Airports, said the decline in job growth at Kennedy was came largely because Eastern and Pan Am airlines, once the largest employers at that airport, both went out of business in 1991. Since 1992, that airport has added about 1,500 jobs annually, said an authority spokesman, Greg Trevor.
Mr. Trevor also noted that a $9 billion redevelopment program is under way at Kennedy. The plan involves rebuilding several terminals and includes a $600 million renovation and rebuilding of cargo centers.
The report called the redevelopment program and other projects, including the $1.9 billion AirTrain light-rail system that will link Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan to Kennedy Airport in Queens by 2003, "important steps." But it said that those measures fell far short of the investment needed to ensure the vitality of the two airports and their contribution to the local economy.
Mr. Trevor said the Port Authority views the three airports as part of one system that has grown significantly in the last decade. "The system is very healthy, the system is doing very well, and I think that's more important than the question of who ranks 8th or 9th or 10th on a list," he said.
According to figures in the new report, most of the system's growth has stemmed from increases in travel and shipping through Newark.
City officials, long critical of the Port Authority's management of the airports, said the report provided further proof that the agency had helped Newark airport flourish at the expense of the two in the city.
The two airports generate about $150 million in annual revenues, but Deputy Mayor Anthony P. Coles said that money was being used for other Port Authority operations, including the PATH train, instead of being reinvested. The Giuliani administration has said that management of the airports, which the authority leases from the city, should be privatized. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PN (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (63%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (63%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTER FOR AN URBAN FUTURE PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (63%); PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (58%); FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR AN URBAN FUTURE FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS; KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NYC); LA GUARDIA AIRPORT (NYC); DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION); LABOR AIRPORTS (98%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (91%); AIRLINES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); AIR FREIGHT (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); PORT AUTHORITIES (74%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); TICKET AGENCIES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (70%); 

PERSON: KERSHAW, SARAH GREG TREVOR (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000



51 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Three Elections

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The leadership of three of the world's most vital democracies close allies, all -- could change hands by the coming spring.
What would it mean if George Bush and Dick Cheney replaced Clinton-Gore; if Britain's William Hague and Michael Portillo swept Tony Blair and Gordon Brown out of office, and if Israel's Bibi Netanyahu and Arik Sharon took over from Ehud Barak and Ehud Barak? 
 Granted, the odds are against such a worldwide conservative "hat trick." But the right's chances have been improving lately:
In the U.S., Bush has undergone a reversal of poll misfortune; if he strongly exceeds expectations in debate tomorrow, he will become the king of swing voters.
In Britain, Blair's popularity took a plunge as the price of heavily taxed gasoline shot up and he arrogantly mishandled the reaction. But he had been riding for a fall as his mighty millennial pleasure dome, with half the expected customers, became a financial fiasco. His Labor Party is beginning to split over the issue of the wobbly euro while Hague's Conservatives are together in popular defense of the independent pound sterling.
In Israel, the respected attorney general decided not to join a political witch hunt and Netanyahu, unindicted, will re-enter politics with a popular lead over the self-isolated Barak. Palestinian violence after Sharon's pre-Rosh Hashana visit to the Temple Mount, unrestrained by Yasir Arafat, diminished the dangerous notion of divided sovereignty.
Assume for speculation's sake that all three parties of the right make it. How would relationships among their countries change?
Clinton and Blair struck up a fine friendship, and their nations have been close allies in the Persian Gulf and in the Balkans. But Blair's desire to scrap economic sovereignty and thereby integrate Britain with Europe -- as well as his avid embrace and misplaced sponsorship of Russia's Vladimir Putin -- put long-range policy strains on the English-speaking Atlantic partnership.
Bush and Hague would have no such conflicts in their world views. Hague envisions an expansion of the North American Free Trade Agreement to the European Union, presumably with Britain as the fulcrum. That suits the U.S. more than the goal of a "United States of Europe," dominated by Germany and France, that Clinton-Gore rhetoric tended to encourage.
What changes would a rightward swing make in dealings with Israel? With Britain, not much; Israelis say that both Blair and Hague have advisers trusted not to tilt toward Arab interests. With America, the possible change is a mystery.
Clinton-Gore had prickly relations with Netanyahu. Recently, Clinton's ambassador to Israel, Martin Indyk, publicly called for the division of Jerusalem; his extreme statement stands as Clinton policy.
Perhaps Gore would repudiate that position, long rejected by Netanyahu, if asked about it in tomorrow night's debate; Bush surely would. Pro-Israeli hard-liners have greater trust in Gore than Clinton, but when Gore adopts a favorite administration formulation -- that the U.S. should stand with Israel when Israel takes risks for peace -- the question arises, What about when those risks are too great?
Would Bush twist Netanyahu's arm to make previously unthinkable concessions, as Clinton and Indyk did with Barak? The jury is out on that because the memory of his father's gurus, James Baker and Brent Scowcroft, still rankles. But when George W.'s national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, visited Israel last month, she seemed impressed with the strategic value of the Golan Heights. And if George Shultz continues to be the elder-statesman adviser to Bush the younger, White House arm-twisting on security would stop.
What are the odds against conservatives pulling off the hat trick in the U.S. in November, in Israel in January, in Britain in May? My local glitzy casino owner says nine to one at best.
Geopolitical realists will shorten the odds by choosing other combinations of right, left and third way-out: Bush-Blair-Barak, for example, or a gridlocks-and-eggs special of Gore-Hague-Netanyahu.
Or are we headed toward no change at all -- the ancient Roman status quo vadis? We cannot ignore the possibility of the liberal's trilateral trifecta: Gore-Blair-Barak. I don't want to even think about that. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (53%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; GREAT BRITAIN; ISRAEL (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); INDIAN OCEAN (53%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (77%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); MILLENNIUM (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (61%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (57%); BRITISH POUND (51%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); ROSH HASHANAH (50%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM BILL CLINTON (92%); TONY BLAIR (79%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (79%); EHUD BARAK (76%); DICK CHENEY (72%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); GORDON BROWN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000



52 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: Lazio Supports Abortion Pill, Opposing Bush

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and ERIC LIPTON 

 BODY:
Rick A. Lazio declared yesterday that he supported the F.D.A.'s approval of the abortion-inducing drug RU-486, breaking from the position taken by his party's presidential nominee, George W. Bush. But the Republican candidate for Senate in New York said he opposed allowing the government to pay for the drug for poor women.
"I disagree with him on this," Mr. Lazio said of Mr. Bush in explaining his support for the ruling by the Food and Drug Administration allowing the marketing of RU-486, or mifepristone. "I think the F.D.A. signed off on safety. It ought to be available. And it's, again, another way a women can make a choice." 
 As Mr. Lazio took a step away from his electoral base, Hillary Rodham Clinton took a step toward hers yesterday, campaigning at black churches in Harlem, urging parishioners to "put a red circle" around Election Day on their calendars, a plea that signaled the importance she is attaching to a high turnout among black voters.
Mrs. Clinton invoked the pioneers of the nation's civil rights struggles as she urged parishioners to be sure to vote on Nov. 7.
Her entreaties were the kind that politicians usually save for the final days of a campaign, and reflected concern among some Democrats that she can no longer count on the automatic strong turnout among black voters that seemed likely when her opponent was Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who quit the race in May.
"If we don't vote, we turn our backs on everybody from Harriet Tubman to Frederick Douglass to Dr. Martin Luther King," Mrs. Clinton said at St. Luke African Methodist Episcopal Church on Amsterdam Avenue and 153rd Street, the third stop during the tour, where she half-danced her way down the aisle and out the church to the swelling chorus of a gospel choir. "We basically are saying, 'We don't want to be citizens after all, do we?' We don't want to do the most basic job of citizenship, which is to cast our vote."
Mr. Lazio's position on RU-486, that he supports its distribution but does not believe Medicaid should pay for it, was evidence of the conflicting pressures he faces as he tries to present himself as a moderate Republican without alienating conservatives who have been extremely important to his financial and electoral support. He describes himself as "pro-choice," but abortion advocacy groups have opposed his candidacy because he supports several restrictions on the practice, this one being the latest.
"I would not say that for abortion purposes that RU-486 ought to be picked up as a Medicaid expense from the federal government," Mr. Lazio said on "Meet the Press" on NBC. "If the state wants to deal with it, if the private sector wants to pick up the cost, if people want to make sure that they generate dollars to help low-income women pay for that, that's fine. I just don't think taxpayers should do it."
The remarks by the two candidates came on a warm October day that found Mr. Lazio traveling to Washington in the morning for a television interview and back to New York, where he slid between two ethnic cultures celebrating near each other: the Pulaski Day Parade, which started at Fifth Avenue and 26th Street, and the Korean Day Festival, on 32nd Street west of Fifth Avenue.
At the parade, Mr. Lazio marched 27 blocks with Mayor Giuliani at his side. (Mr. Giuliani, characteristically, kept marching up Fifth Avenue when Mr. Lazio turned off at 53rd Street.)
Reflecting the changing ethnic composition of the city, patches of the sidewalk were vacant along parts of the parade route, but Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Lazio seemed unperturbed.
On both sides of Fifth Avenue, small groups of people holding "Lazio for Senate" signs planted themselves where Mr. Lazio walked by, and once he passed, raced a block ahead to wait for him again. The effect was something like the rolling, repeating backdrop in cartoons produced before computerized animation.
For Mr. Lazio, it ensured that there was always at least one supportive sign in the background for the television cameras to capture.
Mr. Lazio has made a point of appearing on the national talk shows in Washington, something that Mrs. Clinton has avoided. ("I'm going to keep talking to the voters of New York and the press of New York and keep traveling around the state," she said when asked yesterday. "That is where I am going to be spending my time.")
Mr. Lazio's advisers view the appearances as a way of generating campaign contributions from supporters across the nation, and have asserted that Mrs. Clinton's refusal to appear reflects timidity on her part.
Mr. Lazio's appearance with Tim Russert, the host of the first debate between the candidates, was a good deal longer and more detailed than many of his interviews with reporters who regularly cover his campaign: his news conference in New York yesterday, for example, lasted three minutes.
Besides detailing his position on RU-486, Mr. Lazio said he had no regrets about the aggressive posture he struck toward Mrs. Clinton during their debate. Several polls have suggested that Mr. Lazio hurt himself with that debate, when he walked across the stage and urged Mrs. Clinton to sign a paper renouncing the use of soft money.
Some Republicans have suggested that Mr. Lazio find some way to offer amends for his actions in preparation for the next debate, which is scheduled for 10:30 a.m. on Sunday on WCBS-TV.
At a lunch with reporters upstate last week, Mr. Lazio seemed to acknowledge that the first debate had not gone as well as his advisers had originally claimed. "Actually, it turned out some of those questions were probably not good for me," he said with a small smile and without elaborating.
But that was not his reaction yesterday on "Meet the Press." When Mr. Russert asked him, "You don't think you were menacing or impolite?" Mr. Lazio answered, "I don't think so at all."
At another point, Mr. Lazio sought to explain what a number of Republicans said was an error he made at the debate, when he proclaimed that the upstate economy had turned a corner.
"Upstate New Yorkers would be the first to say that we have turned the corner on the failed policies of the Cuomo administration," Mr. Lazio said. And then, apparently recalling that Mr. Russert was Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's communications director before he got into the news business, Mr. Lazio hastened to add: "No insult to you."
Mrs. Clinton supports the F.D.A. decision on RU-486 and Medicaid financing for it as well, a spokesman said last night.
Kelli Conlin, the president of the New York chapter of the National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League, and an opponent of Mr. Lazio, criticized his remarks: "Once again, he's trying to restrict the number of women who can have access to a legal method of abortion."
The chairman of the state Conservative Party, Michael Long, who is a strong supporter of Mr. Lazio and an opponent of abortion, said he was not happy with Mr. Lazio's position, but not surprised by it. "We knew going into this race that Lazio was pro-choice," Mr. Long said. "I wish he weren't, but I knew he was."
Mrs. Clinton toured the churches with an escort of some of the city's most prominent black politicians, among them Representative Charles B. Rangel, the Harlem Democrat; Assemblyman Herman D. Farrell Jr.; and Bill Perkins, the city councilman. David N. Dinkins, the former mayor, joined her at the last church.
The Rev. Al Sharpton, the civil rights leader, was not on hand yesterday, and Mrs. Clinton's advisers said that she had no immediate plans to campaign with a figure that the first lady has for the most part avoided this year.
Mrs. Clinton has seemed particularly energized when campaigning in black churches and in union halls, two of the last places where politicians can be assured of finding a passionate and energetic crowd. And yesterday was no exception. Besides visiting the churches, Mrs. Clinton made an unscheduled stop at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, to tour exhibitions on slavery and the Emancipation Proclamation.
She contended that sending Democrats to Congress was the only way to ensure the continuation of economic strides that she said blacks had made under President Clinton. "I will keep going until everyone has access to a good job and every child has access to a quality education and a modern school building with a qualified teacher, until everyone has access to quality and affordable health care," Mrs. Clinton said.
At St. Philip's Church on West 134th Street, she spoke about the growing importance of prayer in her life -- particularly, she said to knowing laughter from the crowd, during her years in Washington.
"Somebody asked me the other day whether I prayed," Mrs. Clinton told the congregation. "And I said, yes, I do pray, and I have to tell you that if I didn't pray before the White House, I would have started. It is those prayers and that faith that certainly" -- she stopped for a dramatic pause -- "kept me going."
Churchgoers expressed delight at having a first lady in their midst.
"She was right on the money," said Dorothy Day, who heard Mrs. Clinton speak at St. Philip's Church. "She speaks what we are feeling in our community."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, Hillary Rodham Clinton at a church in Harlem yesterday with, from left, Michelle Clemens, the wife of the pastor; former Mayor David N. Dinkins; Representative Charles B. Rangel; and City Councilman Bill Perkins. Below, Rick A. Lazio greeted David Johnson, 4, in Manhattan. (James Estrin/The New York Times); (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; BLACKS; ABORTION; RU-486 (DRUG); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ABORTION (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); MEDICAID (76%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (73%); RELIGION (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (62%); 

PERSON: NAGOURNEY, ADAM; LAZIO, RICK A (REPR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); LIPTON, ERIC HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%); CHARLES B RANGEL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000



53 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE STRATEGIES;
Bush Returning Tax-Cut Plan to Center Stage

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1

 BODY:
After months of burnishing his image as a new Republican with proposals for modest social programs, Gov. George W. Bush has gone into the final sprint of the presidential race by returning his ambitious across-the-board tax-cut plan to the center of his campaign.
At stop after stop -- despite his party's failure to excite voters with tax-cut proposals in recent years -- Mr. Bush presents individual middle-class families to his audiences as a way of talking about tax cuts. He carefully selects families that would save about $2,000 or more under his plan and much less under Vice President Al Gore's plan. 
 Then he will say he trusts the people to manage their own money, while Mr. Gore trusts "the thinkers and planners and plotters" in Washington -- language that harks all the way back to conservative criticism of Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal brain trust.
Mr. Bush's emphasis on tax relief as one of his core issues puts him at the forefront of conservative thought and comes as Republicans in high-profile races, like the Senate candidates Rick A. Lazio in New York and George F. Allen in Virginia, have offered more modest plans instead of embracing Mr. Bush's.
And after years of watching the Democrats charge them with endangering Social Security, Medicare and the economy through large tax-cut proposals, Congressional Republicans this year proposed a handful of smaller tax cuts and are spending the last days of the Congressional session focused on debt reduction.
Mr. Gore has stepped up his assaults on Mr. Bush's proposal, arguing that it would reward the wealthy and hurt the economy. But the governor's aides say he will succeed in using tax cutting as a mainstay of his candidacy, where others have failed, in part because the size of the surplus has weakened arguments against tax relief.
In addition, they say, Mr. Bush is pitching his plan in ways Republicans have not tried in the past.
The tax cut is laced into a comprehensive package of issues that also includes Social Security, Medicare and education. Each issue is used to argue that Mr. Bush allows people to make their own choices in life, while Mr. Gore would increase the power and scope of the government.
"The tax cut becomes a surrogate for a broader discussion about values and the role of government," a Bush adviser said.
And instead of portraying tax cutting in economic terms, Mr. Bush uses values-laden language. He speaks of "fairness" and right and wrong, words designed to blunt the traditional charge by Democrats that across-the-board tax cutting gives huge windfalls to upper-income Americans.
So, for example, Mr. Bush will call his $1.3 trillion 10-year tax cut equitable because it reduces tax rates for all income brackets. And he brands Mr. Gore's smaller cut of just under $500 billion across 10 years social engineering because people get tax credits for certain social needs, like a college education, child care or long-term care for the elderly.
"I don't believe my job as the president is to say O.K., you're the right kind of person, you're the wrong kind of person," Mr. Bush frequently says. "My job as president is to say O.K., if we're going to have tax relief, let's be fair, and everybody who pays taxes ought to get tax relief."
Mr. Bush rarely dwells on the overall cost of his tax cut. "Bush communicates taxes without using numbers," said Frank Luntz, a Republican pollster. "You could criticize the Republican Party for not figuring this out before."
The lack of emphasis on a figure also serves to reduce any disharmony with Congressional Republicans, according to party strategists. They note that even if Mr. Bush and Congressional candidates are not talking about the same size tax cut, they are hitting the same themes.
"We don't see it as a problem at all, because all of them say in one form or another they are embracing independent components of our plan," one aide to Mr. Bush said.
In some ways, Mr. Bush had little choice but to campaign hard on his tax cut as a way of fighting Mr. Gore's claims that his opponent is for "the powerful" and he is for "the people." Mr. Bush's aides acknowledge that the governor's proposals for overhauling Medicare, for creating a prescription drug benefit and for reshaping Social Security are complicated and can be difficult to explain in concrete ways.
Since Mr. Bush's Medicare plan, for example, envisions competition between private insurers and the government Medicare program, his aides cannot say with any certainty what a monthly premium would be.
But they can say how much money people would receive under Mr. Bush's tax-cut proposal.
The idea of showcasing families to talk about tax cuts came from Karen P. Hughes, Mr. Bush's communications director. The governor's aides say the couples, known inside the campaign as "tax families," have two purposes. They help the governor excite the Republican base with tax cutting, and they come from the same income bracket as many of those voters who are viewed as undecided in this year's presidential race.
The same technique of featuring certain taxpayers has been used by both parties for years on Capitol Hill as they have vied for advantage in various policy debates.
Just a few years ago, Democrats in the House and Senate were having news conferences with teachers, nurses, divorced mothers and office workers with incomes between $20,000 and $25,000 who would benefit under their tax-cut plan, while the Republicans were showcasing couples and divorced mothers earning just over $60,000.
At the time, the Democrats argued that as long as the fight was over how to cut taxes, as opposed to whether to cut them, they would benefit politically, because Democrats are generally perceived as more fair and more concerned about the middle class.
It is precisely such perceptions that the Bush campaign is trying to dispel. So it is no accident that the governor often showcases couples whose income hovers around the $50,000 range. In addition, his chosen couples are ones who are ineligible for Mr. Gore's many tax credit proposals: they itemize their taxes and have no children in day care, no college tuition costs and few savings.
Last week the Zells of Redwood City, Calif., were one of the couples on display. Mr. Bush said that by his count they would get a $2,175 tax cut under his plan and $100 under Mr. Gore's.
Mr. Bush has focused on particular points to try to deride Mr. Gore's plan. He notes that under Mr. Gore's proposal to end the so-called marriage penalty -- the quirk in the tax law that makes some couples pay more taxes when they marry and file jointly than when they were single -- relief is available only to couples who do not itemize. A newly married couple who buy a house and deduct the mortgage interest get no marriage penalty relief, he points out, while those who rent do.
The Gore campaign argues the case differently. Mr. Gore's tax-cut proposal would alleviate the marriage penalty by raising the standard deduction for married couples, which is taken only by relatively low-income people. In short, Mr. Gore's aides say, he is directing this particular tax benefit to the neediest.
Democrats say they will trump Mr. Bush in the tax-cutting debate. They point to Senator John McCain, who beat Mr. Bush in the New Hampshire primary with a smaller tax-cut plan and the argument that Mr. Bush risked reopening deficits.
Mr. Gore makes that same point nearly every day, and charges as well that Mr. Bush cannot afford to invest enough in programs like education or Medicare because of the scope of his tax cut. He and his aides also point to the tax breaks the wealthy would receive under Mr. Bush's plan.
So last week, on a day when Mr. Bush was speaking of education, Ronald A. Klain, a Gore adviser, countered in a news release: "George Bush says his priority is education, but his real priority is tax cuts for the wealthy. How can he really invest in education, when he spends so much of the surplus on tax breaks for the few?"
And on Friday, Mr. Gore called Mr. Bush's proposed tax cut "a plan which spends $667 billion on a tax cut for the wealthiest 1 percent of Americans and would wreck our good economy in the process."
Mr. Gore's staff has also analyzed how two hypothetical families who sound a lot like the Bushes and the Cheneys would fare under Mr. Bush's tax cut.
A married couple from Wyoming earning $4.4 million a year, the Gore camp said, would get a $278,000 tax cut under Mr. Bush's proposal. A Texas family with one wage earner in state government but considerable additional income of $1.3 million annually would get a $60,000 reduction, the Gore staff said.
But in the Republican Party, even onetime critics of Mr. Bush's tax-cut proposal approve of the way he is now campaigning on the issue. Rick Davis, who was Mr. McCain's campaign manager, said Mr. Bush must campaign hard on his tax cut because the election is likely in the end to turn on the economy. "I think he's doing the right thing," Mr. Davis said. "If you're going to run with this big tax cut, you'd better sell it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 TAX RELIEF (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); FAMILY (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); MEDICARE (69%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); MITCHELL, ALISON GEORGE W BUSH (90%); AL GORE (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000



54 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1805 words

HEADLINE: Tribes Seeking Phone Systems As Step to Web

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: MESCALERO APACHE INDIAN RESERVATION, N.M.

 BODY:
Along a road meandering through the ponderosa pines that blanket the Sacramento Mountains sits a modest trailer. Inside is a small company with big ambitions: Mescalero Apache Telecom Inc.
The telephone company is the latest effort by the Mescalero Apache Indian tribe to promote economic development on its reservation, which already contains ski slopes, a gambling casino, elk-hunting grounds, a lumber company and a resort with a golf course. Although the 723-square-mile territory in southern New Mexico covers an area more than twice the size of New York City, it has a population of less than 4,000. 
 Inside the trailer, Godfrey Enjady, the new company's general manager, spoke optimistically about Mescalero Apache Telecom's plans. He means not only to expand basic telephone service beyond the 40 percent of the tribe's households with phones, but to ring the reservation with a fiber-optic network and introduce high-speed Internet connections.
"The tribalization of telecommunications goes way beyond dealing blackjack to tourists from Texas," said Mr. Enjady, 38. "This is about creating the infrastructure to attract investment in the same way an emerging market needs to lure foreign capital."
By forming a tribally owned and operated telecommunications company, the Mescalero Apaches, who count the legendary warrior Geronimo among their forebears, are not alone. A half-dozen American Indian-owned telephone companies are now in operation on Indian lands. And their numbers are expected to grow, after the Federal Communications Commission's recent decision to add as much as $35 million to the $550 million in federal money already available to companies that expand access to basic phone service on Indian reservations.
For all the talk of the so-called digital divide in the United States, the least prosperous parts of Indian America find themselves on the wrong side of a more basic chasm: the dial tone divide.
Only 47 percent of the nation's 720,000 Indian households have plain old telephone service, compared with a nationwide rate of 94 percent, according to the F.C.C. And on some tribal lands, phone service is even rarer. On the Navajo Reservation, the nation's largest Indian territory, encompassing parts of New Mexico, Arizona and Utah, only about one in five households have telephones.
Because a phone line is needed for Internet access, tribal and federal officials see the wiring of reservations as a basic step to bringing Indians into the New Economy.
"The Indian people are at the top of the list of groups that are most at risk of being left out of the emerging dot-com economy," said William E. Kennard, the chairman of the F.C.C. "When a tribal government establishes its own telephone company, it is creating an economic development nucleus."
Other tribes that are considering forming their own telephone companies include the Navajo Nation and the Hopis of Arizona.
Under the F.C.C. plan, which will take effect in October, telecommunications companies that provide residential long-distance service throughout the country will be required to pay a small percentage of their revenue to two federal programs meant to reduce the costs of providing local service and of paying the monthly bills for low-income residents of tribal lands.
Assuming that most carriers will pass this charge on to their customers, the average impact on a monthly $25 long-distance bill would be about 1 cent. The increase would help the programs to make it possible for most phone customers on Indian reservations to get basic local phone service for as little as $1 a month, according to the F.C.C.
The high cost of providing phone service in sparsely populated expanses has long worked against the people of "Indian Country," as many Indians refer to tribal lands.
Darrell Gerlaugh, for instance, felt compelled to found Gila River Telecommunications in 1988 in Chandler, Ariz., near Phoenix, after his grandfather fell ill and his uncle had to hitchhike to the nearest telephone to call an ambulance. It took more than two hours for paramedics to arrive -- too late to save his grandfather.
"It was so expensive to initiate service in far-off areas that the incumbent company ignored us," said Mr. Gerlaugh, a member of the Gila River Indian tribe.
When Gila River Telecommunications began operation, the company's cost for installing phone service was as much as $48,000 per household, and only one in five families had a phone. Now, with the basic network in place -- thanks, in part, to federal subsidies -- the cost of connecting each additional household is minimal. Nearly half the households in Gila River's region now have telephones, according to Belinda Nelson, the company's general manager. The percentage is expected to increase as the additional federal subsidies kick in.
Mr. Gerlaugh is president of the National Tribal Telecommunications Alliance, a group formed by the half-dozen tribally controlled telephone companies in existence. Besides Gila River and Mescalero Apache, the alliance includes the nation's oldest tribally owned telephone company, the Cheyenne River Sioux Telephone Authority, established in 1958 in Eagle Butte, S.D. The other members are three Arizona companies: the Tohono O'odham Utility Authority, San Carlos Telecommunications and Fort Mojave Telecommunications.
The companies are structured in different ways, depending on the needs of each tribe. Mescalero Apache Telecom, serving a particularly entrepreneurial community, is set up as a wholly commercial enterprise. But the others so far are regulated by the tribal governments, which own and operate the companies, with as much of an emphasis on providing basic dial-tone service as on eking out profits. These companies, in particular, will rely on the new form of federal aid to help support their operations.
Indian household incomes average $30,784, compared with more than $40,000 for white households.
Although most tribes have significant say over what happens on their lands, the tribal companies are not necessarily exempt from competition. And with the prospect of additional federal subsidies, some tribal phone companies are bracing for new competitors. The F.C.C. has not yet determined whether the new subsidies should be made available to any company -- Indian or not -- that can demonstrate its intention to serve reservations.
Already, tensions have developed between some executives at tribally controlled phone companies and potential competitors. One visible example involves Western Wireless, of Bellevue, Wash., a commercial company that focuses on providing wireless communications service in rural areas neglected by larger telecommunications companies. Western Wireless has aggressively sought to receive part of the new federal funds.
"They're trying to get their foot in the door in an underhanded way," said J. D. William, general manager of the Cheyenne River Sioux Telephone Authority. "It's not a level playing field because Western Wireless has deeper pockets and economies of scale we don't have. They're just profiteers, while our purpose goes beyond that."
But Western Wireless said it should not be prevented from trying to provide services on tribal lands simply because it was not Indian-owned. The company said it was working with tribes to arrive at the best structures for their needs. It cited a recent agreement with the Oglala Sioux Tribe in Pine Ridge, S.D., in which Western Wireless would eventually turn over control of the operations on tribal lands if the tribe deemed that necessary. Western Wireless apparently sees this concession as a bargaining tool that will help it to pursue similar agreements with other tribes.
"The tribes who work with us don't have anything to worry about, because we'll turn over control of the operations if that's an option they want," said Charles Blackwell, a lawyer and a member of the Chickasaw and Picuris tribes, who is an adviser on Indian issues for Western Wireless.
He said, though, that Western Wireless hopes the concession will serve primarily as a symbol of good faith. "There are 82 tribes in our coverage area," Mr. Blackwell said. "If some of those don't want their own phone company, but want service from us, isn't that fair?"
The F.C.C. appears to think so, although it has not reached a definitive stance on whether to make Western Wireless and other nontribal phone companies eligible for federal money. "Competition is good for consumers, whether they are in New York or the Navajo Nation," said Mr. Kennard, the F.C.C. chairman.
While these issues are being resolved, the restless energy at the tribally owned companies seeking to increase access to telecommunications among their members is probably best witnessed at Mescalero Apache Telecom, which is run by Mr. Enjady and a work force of four.
Earlier this year, the tribe acquired the telecommunications network, including nearly 950 telephone lines, on its land from the GTE Corporation for about $10 million after a lengthy dispute with the company. At one point, the Mescalero Apaches threatened to condemn, or effectively nationalize, GTE's telephone lines. Like other tribes, the Mescalero Apaches have sovereign rule over their lands, permitting them to make such a move.
The next step was gaining approval to function as a telecommunications company from New Mexico's Public Regulation Commission. While the Mescalero Apaches could have followed the example of some other tribally owned telecommunications companies by self-regulating their phone company, doing so could have threatened the company's eligibility for federal money.
For the road ahead, Mescalero Apache Telecom is mapping out a future that it hopes will allow it to deliver state-of-the-art services to its clients, who include the 3,600 people on the reservation and people who visit the tourism complexes at the Inn of the Mountain Gods and Casino Apache. The company plans investments of more than $10 million over the next several years, said Mr. Enjady, who was recruited to return to the reservation and run the company after he worked as a technician and manager at GTE.
By November, the company's customers should receive their first bills with the words "Mescalero Apache Telecom" on them. When that happens, the company will find itself in the unusual situation of forming a small telecommunications company when many of the largest companies in the industry are consolidating and creating ever larger conglomerates. So how is a tribally controlled company expected to survive in an age of rampant consolidation?
"We'll stay lean and mean, offering services that are in demand to our people but weren't available," Mr. Enjady said. "I wouldn't be surprised if we're the ones receiving takeover offers in a few years."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Godfrey Enjady, general manager of Mescalero Apache Telecom, is planning a fiber-optic network. (David Getzschman for The New York Times)(pg. A25)
 
Map of New Mexico highlighting the Mescalero Apache Indian Reservation: The Mescalero Apaches want to extend phone service on their land. (pg. A25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: STEL (NASDAQ) (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: MESCALERO APACHE TELECOM INC TELECOM INC (92%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MESCALERO APACHE TELECOM INC FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; INDIANS, AMERICAN; MESCALERO APACHE INDIANS TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (77%); GAMING (77%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); CASINOS (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (75%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (75%); SKIING (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); FIBER OPTICS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); 

PERSON: ENJADY, GODFREY; ROMERO, SIMON DARRELL GERLAUGH (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000



55 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
Fresh Fighting, and Rage, In Palestinian Protests
Nine more Palestinians were reported dead, bringing the Arab death toll to 28, and the first Israeli casualty was reported as Palestinian rioting spread beyond the West Bank and Gaza into Arab towns inside Israel's borders. An Israeli-Palestinian agreement to restrain the fighting disintegrated, and Palestinian funerals fed the rage that propelled fresh protests, countered at times by heavy-duty Israeli weapons. A1 

A scene of violence in Gaza that ended in the deaths of a 12-year-old boy and the ambulance driver trying to come to his aid has become a potent new symbol of what angry Palestinians contend is their continued victimization by Israeli occupiers. A12
 
The prospect of President Clinton brokering an end to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict before he leaves office has all but evaporated with the outbreak of violence, diplomats and analysts said. A12
 
Lawsuit Cites War-Era Slavery
Thousands of Chinese men who served as forced laborers for Japanese companies during World War II have filed a landmark lawsuit. A 1999 California law allows victims who have been unable to pursue their claims elsewhere to sue companies that may have benefited from slave labor years ago and now have American subsidiaries. The plaintiffs hope to repeat the success of Holocaust survivors' suits, which have yielded $6.2 billion in recent settlements. A1
 
Serbs Gird for Strikes
As Serbia's opposition vowed to shut down the country today, police officers, apparently sent to try to keep electricity production going, surrounded and entered an important coal mine yesterday. The miners went on strike on Friday as part of the opposition's campaign to force President Slobodan Milosevic to concede defeat to Vojislav Kostunica, above, in the presidential election. A3
 
First English Bill of Rights
England will get its first domestic bill of rights in a fiercely debated move that is likely to reshape the centuries-old relationship between the citizens and the government. The change comes with the scheduled enforcement of the Human Rights Act, which for the first time incorporates the European Convention on Human Rights into English law. A3
 
Tiananmen Square Arrests
Hundreds of followers of the banned Falun Gong spiritual movement were arrested at Tiananmen Square in Beijing on China's National Day after recent instructions from their American-based leader to "achieve consummation" by facing imprisonment or death. A6
 
First Canonizations of Chinese
Pope John Paul II canonized 120 Roman Catholics killed in China, including 87 Chinese, although the government had condemned the action as an insulting reminder of colonial imperialism. The canonizations also included Mother Katharine Drexel, a turn-of-the-century American philanthropist. A4
 
NATIONAL A16-25
 
Justices Face a Docket Full of Heft, if Not Flash
At first glance, the Supreme Court term that opens today figures to be a pale imitation of the blockbuster term that concluded in June. After all, there is no abortion case on the docket this time, no Miranda, no school prayer, no gay rights. But in its own perhaps less flashy way this term might well measure up to the last one for cases of far-reaching consequence. A1
 
Bush Returns to Tax Cut Plan
After months of burnishing his image as a new Republican with proposals for modest social programs, Gov. George W. Bush has gone into the final sprint of the presidential race by returning his ambitious across-the-board tax cut plan to the center of his campaign. A1
 
Gore's Debate Reputation
Vice President Al Gore heads into tomorrow's presidential debate with a reputation as one of the most artful, combative and practiced political debaters in modern history. But most of his practice has come at the expense of fellow Democrats. A23
 
Mr. Gore said he would try a new tack -- and tone -- in his first televised debate with Mr. Bush: keep the focus on his own proposals and try to resist savaging his opponent. A24
 
Ralph Nader, the Green Party presidential candidate, accused the two major parties and their corporate supporters of stifling democracy by keeping him out of tomorrow night's presidential debates. Mr. Nader spoke to a rally of 12,000 in Boston. A23
 
Battle Cry in Alabama
The rolling land along the highway that stretches from Selma to Montgomery offers little more than its rich red Alabama soil and the collective memory of its people. But a businessman's plan to build a landfill off Highway 80, near a landmark in civil rights history, has divided traditional allies and united blacks and whites on both sides. A16
 
Texas Battles Red Tide
Nearly 300 miles of Texas coast from Smith Point south to Corpus Christi are suffering from red tide, which is caused by a microscopic organism that releases toxins and depletes oxygen from the water. The toxic algae bloom kills fish and contaminates shellfish, threatening oyster beds and the state's $1 billion-a-year fishing industry. A16
 
Turtles Released Into Sea
Three sea turtles outfitted with transmitters were released into the open ocean off San Diego as part of a research program to track their migration through the Pacific to nesting grounds in Japan. The Pacific loggerheads have lived at Sea World for more than two decades. A21
 
Peace for Vietnamese Refugees
Vietnamese have been coming to New Orleans for 25 years, resettled by the Roman Catholic Church after the fall of South Vietnam. Even as they have assimilated, they also have created a world that sounds and feels like home. A22
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Lazio Supports Approval Of the Abortion Pill
Rick A. Lazio, the Republican candidate for Senate in New York, declared that he supported the legalization of the abortion-inducing drug RU-486, breaking from the position taken by his party's presidential nominee. But Mr. Lazio said he opposed allowing the government to pay for the drug for poor women. B1
 
Ex-Pastor Is Focus of Inquiry
The retired pastor of a large Roman Catholic church in Queens is suspected of stealing millions of dollars from his affluent parish and giving much of it away, officials said. B3
 
New York Airports Lose Edge
A rise in flight delays at Kennedy and La Guardia Airports, inadequate cargo facilities and chronic traffic congestion have caused the airports to lose much of their competitive edge and have cost Queens an opportunity to add jobs, a report said. B6
 
ARTS E1-8
 
TV Season of Promise and Risk
For network programmers the television season that gets off to a belated start tonight blooms with more promise than any since the mid-1990's; it also looms with just as much threat. The networks learned a vivid lesson last season: real hits are still possible. E1
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-10
 
Yankees Stagger Into Playoffs
The Yankees dropped their final regular-season game in Baltimore, 7-3, extending their losing streak to seven games -- the longest ever for a team entering the playoffs. A1
 
SYDNEY 2000 S1-8
 
OBITUARIES B8
 
Mary Shepard
The modest illustrator, whose line drawings of Mary Poppins brought to life the ultimate British nanny in a series of seven books by P. L. Travers, was 90. She was the daughter of E. H. Shepard, illustrator of "Winnie-the-Pooh" and "The Wind in the Willows." B8
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-22
 
Plugging the Dial-Tone Divide
Because a phone line is a precursor to Internet access, tribal and federal authorities see the wiring of reservations as a basic step to bringing Indians into the New Economy. A1
 
Studies Showed Tire Problems
Firestone officials in Venezuela conducted at least two studies in 1999 that reviewed patterns of tire problems there while assuring Ford that tire failures in the country were isolated cases resulting from customer abuse and poor maintenance, internal Firestone documents show. A25
 
Venture Capital Partnership
Ecompanies, an Internet incubator, is expected to announce today that it is combining its venture capital arm with the new economy operations of Evercore Capital Partners, an investment firm in New York. C2
 
Underwriting Market Rebounds
Investor jitters have somehow not had much impact on the underwriting business. C2
 
Ernst & Young Plans Spinoff
The accounting firm plans to spin off its online corporate-training operations, part of a strategy to become a dominant player in the industry. C16
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: The politics of fuel; issues for the Supreme Court -- the new term's docket, Mr. Rehnquist's dilemma.
Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.
 
Bridge E4
Public Lives A16
Crossword E8
TV Listings E7
Metro Diary B2
Weather B9
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SERBIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SERBIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (75%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); LITIGATION (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); CULTS & SECTS (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); RIOTS (77%); SLAVERY (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); HOLOCAUST (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); STRIKES (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (71%); ARRESTS (69%); COAL MINING (64%); RELIGION (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (63%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000



56 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1972 words

HEADLINE: JUSTICES TO FACE HEFT OF LAST TERM IF NOT THE FLASH

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1

 BODY:
At first glance, the Supreme Court term that opens on Monday figures to be a pale imitation of the blockbuster term that concluded in June.
After all, there is no abortion case on the docket this time, no Miranda, no school prayer, no gay rights. There are federalism cases, but the debate over limits on Congressional authority by now has a familiar ring. And just days ago, the justices decided to sidestep the one case that would surely have put the term on the map, Microsoft's appeal in the government's antitrust case. 
 Despite all that, this is a term that in its own, perhaps less flashy way might well measure up to the last one for cases of far-reaching consequence.
Among the 47 cases the justices have accepted for argument -- possibly 30 more will be added in the next few months -- is a case under the Clean Air Act that offers what may be the most significant test of government regulation in decades.
One of the new federalism cases, on whether states may be sued for violating the Americans With Disabilities Act, could prove to be the most important in the series of recent cases in which the justices have carved out a widening area of state immunity from the reach of federal statutes.
In addition, a Congressional redistricting case from North Carolina gives the court a final chance before the next round of post-census reapportionment to clarify its position on the role of race in the drawing of district lines.
And in a First Amendment challenge to restrictions on the kind of advocacy that lawyers in federally financed legal services programs can offer clients, the court will revisit the increasingly important issue of what strings can be attached to government grants.
The justices who enter the courtroom at 10 o'clock on Monday morning will be taking their seats in the glare of an election-year spotlight. They have served together for more than six years. The interval since Justice Stephen G. Breyer took the oath on Aug. 3, 1994, is the longest period without change in the court's makeup since the early 19th century. No justice has given any indication of retirement plans, but the sense that change is inevitable, even if not imminent, permeates the opening of the term this year.
Following are some of the new term's most important cases:
 
Congressional Authority
A series of 5-to-4 decisions in the last four years has constricted the ability of Congress to apply various federal laws to the states. Last year, for example, the court ruled that states may not be sued for discriminating against older workers. This term, the question is whether states may be sued for violating the Americans With Disabilities Act, a far-reaching statute that requires all employers to accommodate the needs of qualified workers with disabilities and places special anti-discrimination obligations on public agencies.
The case, University of Alabama v. Garrett, No. 99-1240, is highly significant because it poses a direct challenge to Congress's authority to enforce the equal protection guarantee of the 14th Amendment.
In the age discrimination case last year, the majority said there was insufficient evidence that age discrimination by state employers was a problem so serious as to justify breaching the states' constitutional immunity from damage suits in federal court. Consequently, in the new case, supporters of the disability act, including the Clinton administration, historians and disability rights advocates, have mounted a major effort to document for the court the extent to which states themselves have discriminated against people with disabilities, from denial of access to polling places to involuntary institutionalization and even sterilization.
The historical record is striking, but whether it will prove conclusive is an open question. The case also poses an important question about how far beyond the 14th Amendment's nondiscrimination command Congress may may go in devising remedies or preventive measures. In requiring not only relief from active discrimination but affirmative acts of accommodation, the Americans With Disabilities Act goes further than what the equal protection guarantee itself requires. Whether it goes too far may depend, in turn, on where the court ranks disability in the hierarchy of equal protection.
It is clear, for example, that age discrimination receives the lowest judicial scrutiny and racial discrimination the highest. There is some ambiguity in the court's precedents over whether disability discrimination ranks at the bottom or somewhere in between, another question that this complex and far-reaching case may answer.
A second case challenges an exercise of Congress's authority to regulate interstate commerce, in this instance under the Clean Water Act. The question in Solid Waste Agency v. United States Army Corps of Engineers, No. 99-1178, is the validity of a regulation known as the "migratory bird rule," under which the government has asserted authority to regulate small intrastate wetlands that are habitats for migratory birds.
The court's recent precedents have emphasized that activity regulated under the Commerce Clause must itself have a substantial impact on commerce. In this case, a federal appeals court upheld the regulation on the basis of the cumulative economic effect of the millions of people who travel across state lines to hunt or watch migratory birds.
While the case could be resolved on statutory grounds, a constitutional ruling that directly rejects this "cumulative effects" test would further restrict Congress's discretion beyond the context of this dispute.
 
Federal Regulation
The federal appeals court here set off shock waves last year when it invalidated the Environmental Protection Agency's new standards for smog and soot under the Clean Air Act. Reviving an analysis that had fallen into disuse since the New Deal, the appeals court said that by failing to give the agency meaningful limits on the setting of standards, Congress had delegated too much legislative authority to the executive branch.
Since many administrative agencies operate within broad and vague grants of authority, this unexpected judicial revival of the "nondelegation" doctrine could have major consequences. The Clinton administration appealed the ruling in Browner v. American Trucking Associations, No. 99-1257.
At the same time, the industry groups that challenged the new standards have offered an alternative argument to the Supreme Court: that the Clean Air Act should be reinterpreted as requiring that regulations be justified under a cost-benefit analysis, and that such a requirement would remove the law from under the constitutional cloud of the appeals court's nondelegation analysis. The industry case is American Trucking Associations v. Browner, No. 99-1426.
 
Criminal Law
The docket contains an unusual number of criminal cases, with five raising substantial issues under the Fourth Amendment's prohibition of unreasonable search and seizure.
Ferguson v. City of Charleston, No. 99-936, is a challenge to the South Carolina city's program under which selected obstetrics patients at a municipal hospital were tested for cocaine use, with positive findings turned over to the local police. Among the 10 plaintiffs are women who were arrested and taken to jail almost immediately after giving birth. The Fourth Amendment question is whether the urine tests performed without warrants were unconstitutional searches or whether, as the city argues, they were justified by a "special need," beyond the bounds of ordinary law enforcement, to protect fetal health.
The question in City of Indianapolis v. Edmond, No. 99-1030, is the validity of a drug-interdiction checkpoint in which trained drug-detecting dogs sniffed the cars of motorists stopped on a city street. A federal appeals court rejected the city's argument that because the checkpoints served a "special need" of protecting health and safety, they should not be held to the same constitutional standard as a typical law enforcement program, which would require the police to have a reason to suspect wrongdoing before stopping a car.
Atwater v. City of Lago Vista, No. 99-1408, asks the court to decide in a Texas case whether the Fourth Amendment bars a full custodial arrest for an offense -- failure to use a seat belt -- that carries no more than a $50 fine. The question in Kyllo v. United States, No. 99-8508, is whether use of a thermal imaging device, used to detect the heat that is often the byproduct of a home-growing marijuana operation, is a search that requires a warrant. Finally, in Illinois v. McArthur, No. 99-1132, the court will decide whether the police can secure a home from the outside, preventing the occupant's re-entry while they obtain a warrant to search the premises.
 
Redistricting
The court will scrutinize North Carolina's 12th Congressional District for the fourth time since 1993, when a decision called Shaw v. Reno rattled the political system by indicating that districts drawn predominantly on the basis of racial considerations are presumptively unconstitutional. The district was drawn after the 1990 census in order to elect a black congressman, the first in North Carolina since Reconstruction.
After the earlier decisions, the district is now somewhat more compact and contains a majority of whites. Nonetheless, a three-judge federal district court invalidated it again earlier this year. Now called Hunt v. Cromartie, No. 99-1864, the case raises the question of how a court, reviewing the record of a district's creation, is supposed to tell whether impermissible racial considerations or permissible political motives, like protecting incumbents, were predominant when the Legislature made its choices.
 
Free Speech
In a 1996 budget bill, Congress put new limits on lawyers who receive money from the Legal Services Corporation to represent poor people. While the lawyers may still represent welfare recipients in seeking benefits on a case-by-case basis, they may not challenge any welfare law or regulation. The question in Legal Services Corporation v. Velazquez, No. 99-603, is whether this restriction amounts to an unconstitutional restriction on speech critical of government policy, as a federal appeals court found.
The court will decide whether journalists may be sued under the federal wiretap law for disclosing the contents of communications they have reason to suspect were illegally intercepted. In this case, Bartnicki v. Vopper, No. 99-1687, a radio talk show host in Pennsylvania, played a tape of a private cell phone conversation that had been anonymously delivered to him. The two parties to the conversation sued. A federal appeals court held that as the passive receiver of newsworthy information, journalists could not be punished under the wiretap law, despite the privacy interests at stake.
 
Expanded Information Online
In time for the new term, the Supreme Court has expanded the information that is available on www.supremecourtus.gov, its new Web site. The site now provides a searchable database of the court's docket, showing the procedural history of all pending and recently decided cases.
The Oyez project of Northwestern University, named for the marshal's cry when the justices enter the courtroom, has expanded its Web site, oyez.northwestern .edu, to include information about the current docket, as well as links to lower court opinions and briefs and an archive of more than 1,500 hours of Supreme Court arguments.
The Politics section of The New York Times on the Web (www .nytimes.com/politics) contains links to a Supreme Court Guide with a connection to the FindLaw databases of recent Supreme Court opinions, orders and briefs in pending cases.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US); CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) MICROSOFT CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US); CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH CAROLINA; UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FEDERAL AID (US); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LEGAL AID FOR THE POOR; ELECTIONS; REAPPORTIONMENT; LEGAL PROFESSION; FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION; AIR POLLUTION; BLACKS; HANDICAPPED; STATES (US); SUITS AND LITIGATION REDISTRICTING (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); APPEALS (89%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LEGAL AID (89%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); VERDICTS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (77%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (77%); ABORTION (77%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); LAWYERS (75%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); IMMUNITY (73%); AIR QUALITY (73%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (73%); DISABLED ACCESS (73%); RELIGION IN SCHOOLS (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); CHURCH & STATE (72%); DISABLED PERSONS (71%); DISABLED WORKERS (71%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (70%); AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (65%); OLDER WORKERS (60%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (60%); LGBT RIGHTS (57%); RELIGION (57%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA STEPHEN BREYER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000



57 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1907 words

HEADLINE: New York Olympic Stadium Plan Masks Shaky Political Coalition

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Proposals for a stadium on the far West Side of Manhattan seem to emerge every year as the solution to a problem, like a way to keep the Yankees in town or to get the Jets back from out of town.
And if the plans are never officially dropped, they have always faded away amid a chorus of naysayers. 
 This year, a proposal to build a 100,000-seat domed sports stadium over the rail yards west of 10th Avenue has become the linchpin of efforts by powerful rival forces to bring the Olympics to New York City in the summer of 2012.
Though those forces are united behind the Olympic flag, their varied agendas could tear the effort apart, some critics say.
"It's a disparate group of very powerful people trying to pursue their pet projects," said Elliott D. Sclar, a professor of economics and urban planning at Columbia University. "And it may very well blow up in their faces."
So the tug of war has begun again between those who want to build a stadium in Manhattan as the centerpiece of a wide-ranging development plan, and those who say such a large-scale project would be devastating to the relatively low-scale West Side below 42nd Street, while the stadium itself would be a costly white elephant.
NYC 2012, the committee leading the effort to play host for the Games, has won the support of Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who face off as rivals as often as they meet as partners; corporations like Merrill Lynch, Time Warner and the Loews hotel corporation; some of the city's largest developers; and virtually every newspaper editorial board in the city.
The proposed Olympic stadium, as well as an office tower, a hotel and a new home for Madison Square Garden, would be built on a platform over the rail yards, which stretch from 30th to 34th Streets, between 10th and 12th Avenues. It could become a new home for the New York Jets football team and could be used for large conventions as part of a badly needed expansion of the nearby Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, which sits across 34th Street.
Daniel L. Doctoroff, the investment banker who heads NYC 2012, said the Olympic effort was an opportunity to do something great for the city, and could result in new parks, housing and an estimated $10 billion in economic activity.
"The major benefit of hosting the Olympic Games is that it would act as a catalyst for projects in the city that you otherwise wouldn't be able to muster the political will to achieve," Mr. Doctoroff said in a telephone interview from Sydney, Australia, where he was attending this year's Olympic Games.
The New York Olympic committee has been working closely with the Giuliani administration on a plan to rezone the area west of Eighth Avenue, from 42nd to 28th Streets, for more than 20 million square feet of office space. The office projects would take some pressure off the rapidly rising rents in Manhattan and provide space for companies now moving to New Jersey, they said. A proposed extension of the No. 7 subway line from Times Square to the project, as well as links to regional train networks, would carry residents, office workers and sports fans to the area.
But local community groups say the Olympic effort is a Trojan horse for a sports arena in an already congested neighborhood and a major rezoning that would displace longtime residents and businesses.
"Mayor Giuliani and the stadium boosters are offering us an enormous megaproject, which would overwhelm us with traffic and make this neighborhood unlivable," State Senator Thomas K. Duane said.
Ross Graham, the chairwoman of the South Hell's Kitchen Planning Committee, said New York needed less costly office space in Brooklyn and Queens to compete with New Jersey more than it needed expensive space in Manhattan.
She said the community board favored a comprehensive plan for the area that included middle-income housing, the preservation of light industry and some office development.
NYC 2012 says it is not a subterfuge for a giant development, but one adviser acknowledged that the Olympic effort needed a stadium with up to 100,000 seats for opening ceremonies and track and field events, and that it had few options politically other than building on the West Side.
"We're not using the Olympics as a stalking horse for a stadium," the adviser said. "But it's clear that the big hole in the viability of New York as an Olympic site is the absence of an Olympic-quality stadium."
Much of the construction for the Games, like housing for athletes, can wait until 2005, when the International Olympic Committee will select a host for 2012; but major projects, like the extension of subway lines and a huge new stadium, cannot. (The committee is required to submit its application to the United States Olympic Committee by Dec. 15. New York is one of eight cities in the United States alone seeking to hold the Games.)
NYC 2012 estimates that the Olympic Games will generate $3.2 billion in revenue and cost $1.9 billion to run, leaving $1.3 billion to build athletic facilities and parks. The Olympic proponents have said the stadium could be built with private money, but they have not said what they would pay the Metropolitan Transportation Authority for the land.
The committee has also explored using tax revenues from the increased value of property on the West Side to pay for an estimated $2.3 billion in projects, including the extension of the No. 7 subway line ($780 million), a retractable stadium roof ($248.9 million) and the platform over the rail yards ($382.8 million).
But one top executive at the Metropolitan Transportation Authority said the subway alone would cost $1.5 billion, and state officials and other public finance analysts say taxpayers will have to cover hundreds of millions if not billions of dollars in costs.
In 1993, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo first proposed a West Side stadium for the Yankees after the team's principal owner, George M. Steinbrenner 3rd, threatened to move the club to New Jersey. The suggestion was condemned by nearly every Manhattan politician and by Yankees fans.
Mayor Giuliani got the same kind of reception when he later promoted a billion-dollar West Side stadium for the Yankees. In January 1999, he abruptly changed course, saying the West Side would make a good home for Madison Square Garden and the Jets, which unhappily shares Giants Stadium in the New Jersey Meadowlands with the New York Giants.
Later, the Olympics promoters seized on the suggestion and tied it into the more far-reaching proposal.
According to people involved in the effort, the stadium proposal is a compromise put together by NYC 2012 over the last year. Until recently, Governor Pataki's five-year effort to double the size of the Javits center to 1.5 million square feet had been blocked by Mr. Giuliani, who refused to go along unless the governor supported a West Side baseball stadium for the Yankees, something he has refused to do.
Under the Olympic plans, the mayor would get a stadium, albeit a football field, and the governor would get a bigger convention center.
Yet the fragile nature of the Olympic coalition was evident last month, when the mayor and the governor bickered publicly over the future occupants of the stadium.
It began when Mayor Giuliani said the Olympic stadium could be used by the Jets or the Yankees. The City Council speaker, Peter F. Vallone, and other prospective mayoral candidates who had been silent on the Olympic proposal joined the governor in quickly reiterating their opposition to allowing the Yankees to move from their historic home in the Bronx.
"If the idea is to move the Yankees from the Bronx," Mr. Pataki said, "I will oppose it strenuously."
He also suggested that an alternative location for the Olympic stadium could be Flushing Meadows-Corona Park in Queens, where the owners of the Mets have plans to replace Shea Stadium with a $500 million stadium.
In recent months, people involved in the Olympic effort say, Mr. Steinbrenner has complained to City Hall that any stadium built in Manhattan should be for the Yankees.
City and state officials and Olympic proponents said they hoped that a stadium for a football team, which plays mostly on Sundays, 10 times a year, would be less politically explosive than trying to move the Yankees.
NYC 2012 and executives working with the Jets say a Manhattan stadium could be used for concerts, keynote convention speakers, college football and perhaps the Super Bowl.
"I think this could be an opportunity to expand Javits and provide an acceptable stadium for a football team," said Charles A. Gargano, the state's top economic development official, who is reviewing the Olympic proposal. "We just have to work out the economics."
But some economists say stadiums rarely work well with convention centers, certainly not enough to justify such a huge expense.
Jeff Gaines, assistant general manager of the Astrodomain Complex in Houston, said the Astrodome was used for conventions only 30 days a year, mainly by religious groups. That is far fewer than the 90 events projected by NYC 2012 for a West Side stadium.
Robert A. Baade, an economist at Lake Forest College in Illinois who has written extensively about stadiums and convention centers, said he was on a commission in Chicago during the 1980's that explored building a stadium for the Chicago Bears and the White Sox next to McCormick Place, one of the largest convention centers in the world. The initiative fell apart, he said, because the teams did not want to share a stadium and the convention hall operators did not think they would use it very often.
"A stadium is not an optimal space for either trade shows or conventions," Professor Baade said. "If you host a convention of Southern Baptists it works, but there aren't that many Southern Baptist conventions. You're talking about a couple of events a year. It becomes a misinformed rationale for the stadium."
Robert Yarrow, executive director of the Regional Plan Association, a nonprofit civic group, said he, too, questioned the wisdom of a West Side stadium. But he said other elements of the Olympic bid, like mass transit and rezoning the West Side, did make sense.
"It's all driven by the mayor's fixation with a stadium," he said. "Football stadiums are dogs that repel economic activity. The only reason to build a stadium is if it is an excuse to build the transportation infrastructure we need anyway."
NYC 2012 recently hired two advisers to navigate the increasingly treacherous political waters that surround its Olympic proposal: Peter J. Powers, a close friend of Mayor Giuliani's and a former deputy mayor, and Kieran Mahoney, a political consultant with close ties to Governor Pataki.
Still, Mr. Doctoroff made a misstep at a Sept. 12 news conference with Mayor Giuliani when he neglected to include Mr. Pataki, who controls both the convention center and the rail yards over which Mr. Doctoroff hopes to build the stadium.
One senior state official complained that the Olympic plans expected vast sums from the state, but little from the city. "I guess he's going to do this project with the mayor," the official said.
Mr. Doctoroff said he was learning.
"I'm new to this game," he said. "The state has been and will be our partner in this whole thing. What we're talking about doing here cannot be accomplished without the two of them working together." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (54%); MER (NYSE) (54%); 8675 (TSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (66%); NAICS483212 INLAND WATER PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); SIC4489 WATER TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, NEC (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); AUSTRALIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (76%); 

COMPANY: SONESTA INTERNATIONAL HOTELS CORP (66%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (54%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK JETS (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK JETS (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (76%); 

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; STADIUMS AND ARENAS; OLYMPIC GAMES; OLYMPIC GAMES (1912); SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS); AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (79%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); INTERVIEWS (63%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (61%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000



58 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1632 words

HEADLINE: Violent Games and Mature Films: Trying to Limit Youth Access

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 1

 BODY:
As Henry Liu riddles aliens with bullets from a compression rifle, he considers the advantages of having recently turned 17. His parents let him get his first driver's license, he points out, and he can now attend R-rated movies at will.
He is also now of age to buy M-rated video games, which the game industry says should be marketed and sold only to those over 17. But Mr. Liu, playing a Star Trek game at a demonstration kiosk in a downtown computer store, said this particular rite of passage was moot. 
 "I've been playing Doom, Quake, Unreal for three or four years," he said -- all games rated M (for mature), with graphic gore and violence. In Doom, for instance, Mr. Liu said he could use 10 weapons, including saws, shotguns and submachine guns, to kill human opponents, whose bodies explode and scatter when they are killed.
For the video game industry, Mr. Liu and hundreds of thousands of other teenage players present a financial opportunity, but a sensitive one.
A report last month by the Federal Trade Commission criticized game makers for deliberately marketing adult games to minors in violation of the industry's own policies. And it said retailers made it too easy for minors to buy those games.
In some ways, the video game industry got higher marks in the report than the movie and music businesses. Jodie Z. Bernstein, director of the bureau of consumer protection for the Federal Trade Commission, said in an interview that the video game industry had "the most comprehensive of all the self-regulatory bodies."
But "that doesn't mean there has been full compliance" with the policies by game makers, marketers and retailers, she added. "The compliance has been, at best, mixed," Ms. Bernstein said.
Among the points of contention are whether to curb advertising of M-rated games in magazines and on television programs with large teenage audiences, and whether retailers should require identification from those buying such games.
It is a debate with substantial and explosively growing financial stakes. Sales of games for personal computers and video game consoles, like Sony's Playstation and the Nintendo 64, amounted to $5.5 billion in the United States last year, an increase from $4.7 billion in 1998, according to International Development Group, a San Francisco-based market research firm. Of last year's sales, roughly 10 percent were for games rated mature or adults only.
As the game industry has gained a mass audience, mainstream retailers are increasingly sharing in the profits. For example, Wal-Mart and Best Buy together control more than a third of the market for Playstation games, according to International Development Group.
But the specialty stores still account for a high percentage of sales. One such store, in downtown San Francisco, is EBX, where Mr. Liu has come to spend his lunch hour and to check out the latest games.
He has traditionally been a good customer to the video game industry, spending, he said, $120 to $300 a month on games for his personal computer and his Playstation, Nintendo and Sega consoles. He said 20 of his 70 Playstation games were rated M, like Resident Evil II.
What greets patrons are shelves stocked with hundreds of computer and video games, and their accessories: game guides, action figures, trading cards and game enthusiast magazines.
In one corner, a demonstration kiosk features the game Star Trek Voyager, Elite Force, a so-called first-person shooter game in which players kill robots by firing an array of weapons, including a phaser.
On the shelves, each box displays one of four Ratings: EC for early childhood, E for everyone, T for teenagers, or M for mature. There is a fifth rating, AO for adults only, but many retailers decline to carry those titles, typically sexually explicit.
Game makers and the Entertainment Software Ratings Board, the industry's self-regulatory body, say a game's rating depends not on a specific type of violence, but on its intensity, how graphic and realistic the gore, and whether the object is to destroy human beings or machines.
For instance, violence is at the core of the Star Trek game being demonstrated at EBX, but the game is rated T. One reason is because the enemies are aliens, not humans. When they die, they fall to the ground, rather than spout blood or blow apart. But it is possible for a player to kill his own allies, who are human, and who writhe and moan when they are shot.
"There's no blood, but you're still finishing him off with a heavy-powered weapon," said Chris Kelm, 25, a student, as he blew away a few Borg with his phaser, and tried to understand the distinction.
The industry has said it is investing heavily in educating people about the rating system. One chain, Babbage's Etc., has posters in every store that explain the rating system, and includes an explanation on the back page of each advertising flier it sends out. It does not show M-rated games on in-store monitors.
Executives at Electronics Boutique, which operates 520 EBX and Electronics Boutique stores nationwide, say they, too, send explanations with their mailings and plan to put posters in stores. But one retail clerk in the San Francisco store conceded that he did not really understand the rating system.
But Mr. Liu and other teenagers say the rating system is largely irrelevant anyway, as they have been able to buy M-rated games for years. And this goes to the heart of one question facing retailers: whether they should require proof of a buyer's age.
Target, Kmart and Wal-Mart have recently said that they will begin checking identification. But competitors like Babbage's and EBX have not followed suit, and they say there is good reason for their reluctance.
They said they worry they will lose legitimate sales because some 17-year-olds will lack proper identification, will be offended and lost as lifelong customers if they are turned away, and could even sue, because the ratings are guidelines, not legal requirements. The retailers also argue that teenagers who want games can find them one way or another, including on the Internet.
"It's not because we don't want to lose sales," said Dan DeMatteo, president of Babbage's, a chain that includes Software Etc. and Funcoland Stores, speaking of whether to ask for identification. "It's an issue of whether we can do it effectively without opening ourselves up to liability."
The game industry says retailers should make their own choice. Doug Lowenstein, president of the International Digital Software Association, the parent of the ratings board, said, "It is presumptuous of us to tell retailers how to run their business."
But whatever the retailers decide to do, the F.T.C. asserted in its report that the game makers themselves, through their advertising, were enticing minors to buy the adult games in the first place.
Game makers insist that practice is ending. But even within the industry, there is deep disagreement about whether and how their advertising practices should be curbed.
At the core of the debate are magazines for game enthusiasts, like GamePro, Playstation Magazine and Computer Gaming Monthly, which have substantial teenage readerships -- among them Mr. Liu -- but feature numerous advertisements for M-rated games.
Take GamePro, a San Francisco publication that covers a broad range of games and whose monthly readership of 500,000 is also broadly drawn. Sixty-two percent of its readers are 17 or under, according to the magazine's associate publisher, Craig D. Lee.
Of the advertising, 18 percent is for M-related games. The October issue has ads for at least six M-rated games, including Tenchu2: Birth of the Stealth Assassins, Duke Nukem, Land of the Babes and Heavy Metal F.A.K.K. 2, in which a G-string and bra-clad heroine pumps bullets into mutant aliens.
Mr. Lee said his magazine was not wrong to publish the advertisements because "we have the right to serve our community." He added that it was up to the game publishers to decide which ads to run and where to publish them. "How advertisers chose to reach these gamers is their decision, not ours," Mr. Lee said.
Game producers say they face something of a quandary in placing ads in magazines and on television shows with substantially teenage audiences.
Marketing plans obtained by the F.T.C. showed campaigns aimed at networks like MTV and programs like "Beavis and Butthead." But the companies say they have little choice but to advertise in the media their consumers read and watch.
"It's not a perfect system, but it's the best system we have," said Martin R. Currie, director of marketing for Infogrames, publisher of the ultra-violent Duke Nukem games. He said his company left advertising purchases largely to its agency, instructing it only to hit the central demographic group, males 17 to 24.
Edward S. Williams, a video game analyst with Gerard Klauer Mattison & Company, a New York-based brokerage house, said game publishers should take more responsibility.
"The buck has to stop with the publisher of the game," he said. "It's their decision how they market their product."
Ms. Bernstein, from the F.T.C., was harsher still.
"They're trying to reach underage kids," she said. She said the commission was exploring whether criminal charges might apply to entertainment companies, including game companies, that deliberately aim adult content at children.
In the end, Mr. Liu said, young game players will hear about games -- if not through magazines, then through the grapevine -- and figure out how to buy them, whether by asking older friends or downloading them from the Internet.
"People can get the games easily," he said of the mature titles. He should know: he's been getting them since he was 10 years old.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 6, 2000, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Monday about the marketing of violent video games to children misstated the legal action that the Federal Trade Commission might take in such cases. Jodie Z. Bernstein, director of the commission's bureau of consumer protection, said the agency was exploring civil complaints over deceptive or unfair trade practices by game makers or other entertainment companies that market adult content to children. She did not say criminal charges might apply.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Retailers like Electronics Boutique, operator of this store in San Francisco, say they try to educate the public about the video-game rating system. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. C1); The window display of an Electronics Boutique store in San Francisco promotes games for the Sony PlayStation. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. C4)
 
Chart: "A Piece of the Action"
The growth of the video game market has attracted some of the biggest retailers, which are challenging specialty stores for sales.
 
SHARE OF PC-BASED GAMES (TOTAL MARKET = $604.6 MILLION)
Best Buy: 16%
Electronics Boutique: 13
Wal-Mart: 12
Babbage(TM)s/Funco: 11
Comp USA: 11
 
SHARE OF PLAYSTATION GAMES (TOTAL MARKET = $766.2 MILLION)
Wal-Mart: 19%
Best Buy: 15
Toys 'R' Us: 15
Babbage's/Funco: 13
Electronics Boutique: 12
 
SHARE OF NINTENDO GAMES (TOTAL MARKET = $469.0 MILLION)
Wal-Mart: 25%
Toys 'R' Us: 19
Target: 10
Best Buy: 7
Electronics Boutique: 6
 
SHARE OF SEGA DREAMCAST GAMES (TOTAL MARKET = $132.9 MILLION)
Toys 'R' Us: 16%
Best Buy: 15
Wal-Mart: 14
Electronics Boutique: 13
Target: 10
 
Market share figures based on sales this year through August; sales figures are this year through June.
(Source: International Development Group)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (83%); 

COMPANY: NINTENDO CO LTD (58%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (82%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (82%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (83%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTER AND VIDEO GAMES; ADVERTISING; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; VIOLENCE; CHILDREN AND YOUTH COMPUTER GAMES (94%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); CONTENT RATINGS (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); COMPUTER & SOFTWARE STORES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); FIREARMS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); FILM (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); CONSUMER LAW (66%); MARKET RESEARCH (66%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (66%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (66%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (56%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: RICHTEL, MATT HENRY LIU (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000



59 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 4; Column 2; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: On Flight No. 100, the Shuttle Goes Back to Its Roots

BYLINE: By WARREN E. LEARY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2

 BODY:
The space shuttle Discovery is set to blast off on Thursday for the embryonic International Space Station, a mission that will represent milestones for both the reusable space plane and its destination.
The Discovery's 28th trip into space will also be the 100th flight for the space shuttle program, and the mission, which involves hauling up a nine-ton exterior framework for the station and a three-ton docking port, begins a new phase in expanding the orbital research outpost. 
 The space shuttle fleet built by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, which in almost 20 years has taken about three million pounds of cargo and 250 people into space, is finally doing what its planners hoped it would: building and servicing a space station.
The foundation of the space station now consists of three, pressurized modules, two built by Russia and one by the United States, weighing about 115,000 pounds. Onto this base will be attached girder-like, lattice-work metal trusses. This framework will support expansion of the station into a set of modules and structures ultimately weighing almost a million pounds and spanning an area larger than a football field with its solar power panels.
The Discovery and its crew of seven are to deliver and install the first section of this framework, called the Z1 truss. The first of several giant solar panels made by the United States are to be attached to it by the end of the year.
The shuttle, commanded by Col. Brian Duffy of the Air Force and with Lt. Col. Pamela A. Melroy of the Air Force serving as pilot, is to lift off from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida on the 11-day mission at 9:38 p.m. on Thursday.
"The foundation for the International Space Station has been laid, and this mission begins the true station buildup in orbit," said Ron Dittemore, NASA's space shuttle program manager. "With multiple spacewalks planned and multiple components to attach, we're taking the level of complexity up a notch over the past few station construction flights."
The first truss structure going to the station also houses four large gyroscopes that later will help maneuver and stabilize the outpost, and equipment that will improve voice and television transmissions from the station.
During the Discovery's mission, two pairs of astronauts are to make four spacewalks to connect components of the truss and the new docking port to the station. The four, Leroy Chiao, William S. McArthur, Peter J. K. Wisoff and Michael E. Lopez-Alegria, are each to make two six-and-a-half hour spacewalks in four days, doubling the time crews have spent working outside the station on four earlier flights to the complex. The spacewalkers will be assisted by Koichi Wakata, an astronaut from the Japanese Space Agency, who will operate the shuttle's 50-foot robot arm to move cargo from the shuttle to the station.
Robert Cabana, NASA's international operations manager for the station, said this mission would be the most complex yet to the station and likened the astronauts' tasks to those of construction workers framing a tall building. "The Z1 truss is like a backbone for the rest of the systems coming aboard," he said.
Space station construction started in November 1998 when Russia launched its Zarya control module, followed that December by a space shuttle attaching the American Unity connecting node. Russia finally sent up the third segment, its long-delayed Zvezda command module, last July, providing what will be living quarters for the first crews assigned to the station. Beginning in early November, an American and two Russian astronauts are to begin permanent staffing of the station with a four-month tour.
American shuttles have visited the complex three other times, including a mission by the Atlantis last month to bring supplies, perform maintenance and increase the station's altitude, which slowly drops because of atmospheric drag.
Seven shuttle flights to the station are planned within a year. They represent a refocusing of NASA's human spaceflight initiatives from the shuttle itself to the $60 billion station being built by 16 nations, led by the United States. Much of the research and other activities once done by shuttles will shift to the station to benefit from longer periods of reduced gravity, while the shuttles take up a more supporting role.
Dr. Howard E. McCurdy, a historian at American University in Washington who specializes in space issues, said that even decades ago, visionaries who thought of space stations also imagined reusable shuttle craft that would ferry crews and logistics between the outpost and the Earth. "They were always viewed as halves of the same system," he said.
In the period after the Apollo Moon landing, money for space projects decreased sharply, Dr. McCurdy said, and NASA decided to go for a reusable launching system first with the idea of later using it to build a station.
To win support for the shuttle, NASA officials made what proved to be exaggerated claims about what a shuttle fleet would do and how it would greatly reduce the cost of sending payloads into place. To justify the shuttle economically, they said the system could be used to launch all of the nation's scientific, civilian and military payloads, he said.
"There was talk of getting 25 to 50 flights a year with four or five shuttles and of operating costs of $50 million per flight in today's dollars," he said. The shuttle system proved more complicated than first envisioned, and the government appropriated less money for it than NASA requested, forcing extended delays between President Richard M. Nixon's approval to build the shuttles in 1972 and the first flight of the shuttle Columbia on April 12, 1981.
When it became clear that the shuttles needed too much preparation to be launched every week or two, and that each flight was much costlier than first estimated -- now about $400 million each -- the military pulled out of the project and put its payloads on expendable rockets, Dr. McCurdy said.
NASA realized even before the shuttle Challenger exploded in 1986 that it could not undertake even a dozen missions a year, experts said. After the Challenger accident and the loss of its seven-member crew, launching policy was changed to exclude most commercial payloads and restrict shuttles to cargoes that only it could launch or that required a human presence.
In spite of its past problems, experts say the space shuttle has one of the highest reliability ratings of any space rocket and can perform missions that no other launch vehicle, with or without a crew, can.
"The shuttle, despite its disappointments, is a technical marvel that can do things no other spacecraft can do," Dr. McCurdy said. "It didn't meet its cost or schedule goals, but it's an amazing machine. Twenty years after it first flew, there's nothing else in the world like it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The shuttle Endeavour roared through the Florida sky on Feb. 11. The adventures of the shuttle fleet have dominated the American space program over the last 20 years. (Photographs courtesy of NASA); The astronaut Edward Lu connected cables between the space station's modules on a spacewalk last month. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SPACE AGENCY INC (73%); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; DISCOVERY (SPACE SHUTTLE); SPACE SHUTTLE; INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION SPACE EXPLORATION (92%); SPACE STATIONS (92%); SPACE SHUTTLE (91%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (89%); AIR FORCES (77%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (77%); SPACE INDUSTRY (73%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); SOLAR ENERGY (66%); 

PERSON: LEARY, WARREN E

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000



60 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2000

SECTION: Section W; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS;
Southeast Asia Nervously Watches as Oil Prices Climb

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Oct. 2

 BODY:
There is no real winter in tropical Southeast Asia. This year, though, the region may feel an unmistakable chill.
High oil prices deal a double-whammy to Southeast Asia's developing economies, raising the cost of energy while curbing demand for the exports the region depends on for growth. The prospect of fuel shortages and soaring prices in the industrialized West means possible trouble for Southeast Asian countries still struggling to put the financial crises of 1997 and 1998 behind them. 
 "If there's a bad winter, the chances for an oil shock are high," said William C. Belchere, the head of fixed-income research at Merrill Lynch in Singapore. "That would hamper recovery in Asia."
A taste of what could come is already rocking Indonesia, Southeast Asia's largest oil producer, where thousands protested today, demanding that the government scrap a day-old increase in fuel prices. There is widespread concern that further price increases could inflame social unrest in Indonesia -- even as the country earns more money from its oil exports.
The impact of higher energy prices also has hurt Southeast Asia's financial markets, where deepening political instability, persistent corruption scandals and sluggish efforts to invigorate industry and capital markets have sparked an exodus by foreign investors. For them, the uncertainty over oil is only the latest reason to reassess whether Southeast Asia is revamping its economies fast enough to remain competitive in the global economy.
Many economists say investors are overreacting. While oil's upsurge is likely to shave points off the region's economic growth rates, they say, it represents no singular economic catastrophe to Southeast Asia. Indeed, economists are divided over just how much direct impact rising oil prices might have on Asia's developing economies.
Southeast Asia is sitting on large pockets of natural gas and oil. Brunei, Vietnam and Malaysia, in addition to Indonesia, benefit from the latest trend. Some economists say they believe Southeast Asia is no more vulnerable to oil shocks than the rest of the world. Asia is one of the fastest-growing consumers of oil, but oil is responsible for less of its annual economic growth than it is in in the United States, according to David G. Fernandez, an economist at J. P. Morgan. Southeast Asia is, after all, less industrialized than the gas-guzzling economies of the West. Other economists say that developing economies are hit hardest by rising oil prices.
Some economists warn that by cutting into trade surpluses and fueling inflation, higher oil prices could accelerate this year's slide by regional currencies. That could prompt authorities to raise interest rates, thereby muting economic growth. There is agreement among economists on one thing: oil prices threaten demand for the exports Southeast Asia depends on for growth.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Indonesians line up for inexpensive kerosene in Jakarta yesterday. Recent increases in oil prices have caused protests. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (90%); MER (NYSE) (90%); 8675 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (99%); ASIA (99%); INDONESIA (94%); MALAYSIA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; INDONESIA; BRUNEI; VIETNAM; MALAYSIA; SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (99%); ASIA (99%); INDONESIA (94%); MALAYSIA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRODUCTION; CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; SHORTAGES OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); TRENDS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); CURRENCIES (71%); SCANDALS (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); SPORTS TAMPERING (69%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (69%); RIOTS (67%); GASOLINE MARKETS (66%); POLITICS (66%); BONDS (65%); CORRUPTION (51%); 

PERSON: ARNOLD, WAYNE

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000



61 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2000

SECTION: Section W; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS: Energy on Ice;
Rising Oil and Gas Prices Revive Interest in Russia's Arctic Fields

BYLINE: By JOHN VAROLI 

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Russia, Oct. 2

 BODY:
The far north of Russia is an inhospitable sheet of ice and snow more than half the size of the the 48 contiguous United States. But to Russian and foreign energy companies hungry for new supplies, the lure of profits has started to make the region inviting.
With huge reserves of oil and natural gas beneath frigid seas, the Russian Arctic is one of the last untapped treasure-troves of fuel. And the rising price of fuel has made the industry more confident that the risk and expense of getting it are justified, for Russia's needs and for export. 
 Russia's energy resources have, in fact, enhanced the country's economic power in just the last few months, as fuel prices have soared in the West and raised the prospect of shortages this winter. OPEC asked Russia to consider becoming a member at its meeting last week -- the Russians declined -- and the European Union began talks with Russia over the weekend on sharply increasing its imports of Russian natural gas and oil.
Russian oil companies in particular are hoping the Arctic becomes their next Siberia, the main source of Russia's combustible fuel the last 30 years. By some measures, nearly half of Siberia's oil reserves have been exhausted.
"The Russian North has great potential to compensate for the drop in production in older wells in Siberia," said Vagit Alekperov, president of Lukoil Holdings, Russia's largest petroleum company.
Lukoil has aligned with Gazprom, the Russian natural gas monopoly, and Conoco, an American oil company, to tap the Russian Arctic. It is estimated that these companies, along with others, will invest more than $20 billion the next decade to extract the region's oil and gas.
Lukoil says it plans to spend at least $5 billion to develop the Timan Pechora region in the Komi Republic and the neighboring Nenets autonomous region. But that is not a lot of money considering Timan Pechora has one of the largest known reserves of oil, estimated at about 126 billion barrels, enough to supply the world for more than four years. At today's prices of roughly $32 a barrel, that oil is worth $4.032 trillion.
Some early efforts to exploit the region's resources failed, and energy companies have only recently re-evaluated the area.
A major reason is that oil prices have tripled the last 18 months, and natural gas prices have doubled in less than a year.
Developing the Russian Arctic's energy resources, however, will require many more billions of dollars than have been committed.
"The whole Arctic shelf is a vast province of giant oil and gas fields, but there is not enough money to develop all of it," said Igor Gramberg, director of the Institute of Oceanology and Mineral Resources in St. Petersburg.
Foreigners have been reluctant to bet, largely because of Russia's unstable history, shifting tax laws and reputation for violating contracts and reneging on debts.
Conoco, which has operated in Russia nearly a decade, has one modest operation, a joint venture with Lukoil in Timan Pechora known as the Polar Lights Company, which produces about 13 million barrels of oil a year.
"We've managed to eke out a small profit," said John Capps, president of Conoco Russia, "but it has consumed more management and legal time just trying to protect our rights than it should."
Timan Pechora is already known for a notable failure -- a consortium of Russian and foreign partners that included Texaco, Exxon, Amoco and a state-owned oil producer, Rosneft. Licensed in 1991, it collapsed after failing to convince investors that it was offering a profitable opportunity.
Mindful of such risks, Conoco and Lukoil have agreed to develop another oil field -- known as the Northern Territory -- in Timan Pechora that holds about a billion barrels. But Conoco is insisting on a production-sharing arrangement that will give it 40 percent of the field's output.
Aside from the cost of drilling in the Arctic, delivering gas and oil to market may be the top challenge in a region that is almost always frozen.
Lukoil has just completed a $40 million oil terminal on the Pechora Sea, which will handle about 18 million barrels a year, with plans to triple that soon. The company has also spent the last two years creating an Arctic tanker fleet. Lukoil and other Russian companies are also planning a pipeline that will send oil south to the Gulf of Finland near St. Petersburg.
Moscow seems to be placing at least equal emphasis on developing the Arctic's deposits of gas. The importance of the gas was a theme sounded by President Vladimir V. Putin during a visit last spring to the port of Murmansk on the Barents Sea. "Nearly all our future supplies of natural gas lie under the seabed," he said.
In June at the World Gas Congress in France, the German oil and gas company, Wintershall, announced plans for a $1 billion joint venture with Gazprom to develop the Prirazlomnoye oil field on the Arctic shelf. And Rosshelf, a Gazprom subsidiary, hopes to sign a production sharing agreement with the Russian government by year-end to develop one of the world's largest natural gas deposits, the Shtokmanovskoye field in the Barents Sea.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shipping fuel from the Arctic is a big concern. Lukoil is building an Arctic tanker fleet to deliver some of the fuel it plans to remove from Russia's far northern regions. The Astrakhan was launched in 1999. (Aleksandr Belenky)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (66%); GAZP (RTS) (66%); LKOH (RTS) (54%); LKOD (LSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (66%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (66%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (66%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (66%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (66%); 

COUNTRY: ARCTIC (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC); EUROPEAN UNION; LUKOIL; GAZPROM (RUSSIA); CONOCO INC OAO GAZPROM (66%); OAO LUKOIL (54%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC); EUROPEAN UNION; LUKOIL; GAZPROM (RUSSIA); CONOCO INC ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; ARCTIC REGIONS; EUROPE; ARCTIC (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SHORTAGES; CAPITAL INVESTMENT; PRODUCTION OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CARTELS (88%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (77%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (76%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); TRENDS (71%); OCEANOGRAPHY (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); 

PERSON: VAROLI, JOHN VAGIT ALEKPEROV (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000



62 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: SYDNEY 2000;
Sydney Anticipates Long-Term Boon

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, Oct. 1

 BODY:
They call Australia the lucky country, and there may be no better example of its good fortune than the unexpected windfall Sydney is reaping at the end of these Olympics.
Thanks to a steep drop in the value of the Australian dollar relative to the United States dollar, the broadcast rights earmarked to the Sydney Olympic committee have risen in value by about $28 million. 
 "Australians don't like having a weak dollar because they view exchange rates as a scorecard you get on your country," said Bruce Hockman, a senior economist at Deutsche Bank here. "But it's great for the Olympic committee because it will help them balance their books."
As Sydney closes the books on a generally trouble-free Olympics, the bigger question is, how much of a long-term economic boost will the Games give to the city, and to Australia as a whole?
The government, citing a study by the consulting firm Arthur Andersen, figures the Olympics will add $3.6 billion to Australia's gross domestic product in the 12 years before and after the Games. It says the money will come mainly from increased tourism, but also from new jobs and consumer spending.
In the current quarter alone, according to the government, the Games boosted Australia's economic output by 1 percent, through tourism receipts, ticket sales, broadcast rights and sponsorship fees.
The real bonanza could come later, if Australia can capitalize on the success of the Games to become a top tourist destination. The Australian Tourism Forecasting Council predicts that 1.04 million additional tourists will visit here between 2001 and 2004 because of the aura of the Olympics.
But skeptics note that Australia is still a very long way from Europe and the United States. Many fewer people than expected came to the Games, largely because they balked at the marathon flight.
Nor have the Olympics been a boon for previous host cities, like Barcelona, which were looking to put themselves on the map. In fact, the enduring legacy for most cities has been a nasty hangover.
Montreal took decades to pay off more than $1 billion in debt from the 1976 Games. Barcelona was left with $1.4 billion in debts after 1992. Even Los Angeles and Atlanta, which turned a profit on their Games, gained little in the way of jobs or other long-term economic benefits.
Sydney's goal was simply to break even. And it did that, give or take $38 million. But the finances looked parlous for a while.
Under an agreement between the Sydney Olympic committee and the state of New South Wales, the government invested $1.2 billion to improve roads, railroad links and other infrastructure. It also pledged $259 million for extra police, medical care, and other services during the Games.
The Olympic committee had a budget of $1.3 billion, which it was supposed to meet through broadcast-rights fees, sponsorships, ticket sales and licensing arrangements. Six months before the Games opened, it ran over budget and the state had to set up a $76 million bailout fund.
Sydney Olympic officials said they had drawn half of those funds to pay for the higher-than-expected cost of completing sites. In the scheme of things, they said, a $38 million shortfall was not much.
"People always understood that the Games would cost more than the government projected," said Graham Cassidy, a spokesman for the Olympic committee. "That has been the reality ever since Montreal."
The Olympic committee would have had a bigger shortfall but for two things: a last-minute surge in ticket sales, which allowed it to sell 90 percent of its supply, and the crash of the Australian dollar.
This helped Sydney because its largest single source of revenue -- $633 million in rights fees -- are paid by NBC and other broadcasters in United States dollars. At the time the deals were signed, the Olympic committee calculated they were worth 1.03 billion Australian dollars.
Since then, the Aussie dollar has fallen to a near-record low of 0.54 to the United States dollar. By the magic of foreign exchange, the rights are now valued at about 1.2 billion Australian dollars. Since the broadcasters still owe $300 million, that translates into a $28 million gain.
The weak currency could also help Australia's tourism efforts. "The most important thing is that Americans will go home and tell people how cheap Australia is for a vacation," Mr. Hockman said.
Beyond the direct benefits, Australia believes the Games will enhance its standing in the global economy. Despite having an educated work force and a remarkably healthy economy, Australia has been somewhat overlooked by investors in developed countries because of its geographic isolation.
The last two weeks have been a marvelous showcase for Australia's accomplishments in engineering and technology. Whether it is the soaring Olympic stadium, the efficient railroad system or the modern wireless telephone network, Australia is a force to be reckoned with.
"These are the first Games of the new economy," said Tim Harcourt, chief economist of the Australian Trade Commission. "We've shown we're strong in the pool, but we're also strong in other skills."
A few multinational firms are already recognizing Australia's talents. Cisco Systems, the Internet equipment maker, recently established a Sydney office with 1,000 employees to serve Asian customers in 15 languages.
Australian firms are also winning recognition abroad. The local company that designed the seating in many of the Olympic arenas is on the short list of candidates to design the seats in Wembley Stadium in London, which is being rebuilt. It may also pick up a lucrative contract for the Athens Games.
Many Olympic host cities -- even successful ones -- have struggled to make use of the vast stadiums and other facilities that remain after the Olympic torch is extinguished. That is especially true in Sydney, which built more sites, on a grander scale, than most of its predecessors.
With the completion of the Olympic stadium in 1999, Sydney became one of the few cities of its size with three huge stadiums. The Olympic Park has nine other major facilities -- some outdoor, some domed.
Cassidy said the park would pay for itself by revitalizing the geographic heart of Sydney. The site on which the world's greatest athletes competed over the last two weeks had been a wasteland of slaughterhouses, landfills and toxic-waste dumps before the Olympic building program began.
Sydney will use the Olympic stadium for rugby matches, and as a likely home for a second Australian-rules football team. It also plans to rent the tennis courts and other facilities for private use.
Still, Mr. Hockman said it was hard to imagine how Sydney, with a population of four million, could sponsor enough sporting events or generate enough traffic to fill all these facilities regularly.
"That's a big issue, but it's not necessarily a problem for the government, because most of the buildings are privately owned," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Australian officials hope the crowds keep visiting their country long after the Olympic flame is extinguished. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY (AUSTRALIA); AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS); OLYMPIC GAMES (2000) OLYMPICS (92%); TOURISM (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); BUDGETS (76%); TRENDS (74%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (66%); TICKET SALES (65%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000



63 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
What a Mess!

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia

 BODY:
There is only one thing to say about Indonesia today: If you can't take a joke, you shouldn't have come.
Where to start? How about the Finance Ministry. President Abdurrahman Wahid, Indonesia's first democratically elected leader, recently appointed one of his old pals -- Prijadi Praptosuhardjo -- to be finance minister, a critical job today. Just one problem: a few months ago Mr. Wahid had tried to appoint Mr. Prijadi as the head of a big state-owned bank but was blocked when the central bank declared him not "fit and proper" for such a job. Why? Because Mr. Prijadi had been head of corporate lending for the state-run bank, B.R.I., when it ran up 30 trillion Indonesian rupiah worth of bad corporate loans. Let me do the math for you: B.R.I.'s bad loans amounted to 2 percent of Indonesia's G.D.P. When the head of Indonesia's central bank protested Mr. Wahid's appointing as finance minister the man who ran up "the mother of all corporate lending losses," the central banker was put under house arrest for alleged involvement in a campaign finance scandal. 
 That's just a day in the life of Wahid's Indonesia, where, frankly, the wheels are coming loose. With turmoil in the cabinet, with Mr. Wahid constantly traveling abroad, with a bombing at the Jakarta Stock Exchange, with the corrupt former President Suharto having been declared too ill to stand trial (sure!) and with the murder of three U.N. staffers in West Timor by a mob tacitly backed by Indonesian army units, Indonesia today is a mess. In fact, Indonesia, the world's fourth most populated country, is the prime example of a new kind of state: the "messy state."
That's right, in the cold war we had authoritarian, democratic and Communist states. Now we have authoritarian states (North Korea, Iraq), democratic states (America, France), democratizing states (Poland, Chile, Hungary), failed states (Sierra Leone, Liberia) and messy states -- namely Russia and Indonesia.
In messy states the old authority structure that allocated resources, enforced contracts and collected taxes -- President Suharto in Indonesia and the Communist Party in Russia -- has broken down but has not been replaced by a new authority that can play the same role. The result, in Indonesia and Russia, is rampant corruption and a fragmentation of power in which neither the army, the Parliament, the executive nor the remnants of the old order have the strength to assert their will. Messy states: too big to fail; too messy to work.
That's why in messy states you never quite know -- when arms are sold, people murdered or payoffs demanded -- whether this is by design of those ostensibly in charge or because no one is in charge. Indeed, we are going to have to retrain U.S. diplomats to deal with messy states. The first course would consist of film of a U.S. ambassador going to see a senior official of a messy state and asking him to do X. The official of the messy state agrees, gets up and pulls the lever the U.S. ambassador wants, and the lever comes right off the wall. In messy states, levers get pulled but they come off in your hand.
With Indonesia, Russia and Pakistan, the world's fourth, sixth and seventh largest countries, already messy states, and with China likely to become one when Communism collapses, four of the world's seven most populated countries will be messy states. Only America, Brazil and India don't qualify. One wonders how Al Gore or George W. Bush proposes to deal with messy states, because this is not a phase. This is the future. Or as President Wahid himself joked: the Suharto era here was known as the "New Order," the post-Suharto era led by B. J. Habibie was known for being "Out of Order," and the Wahid period is known as "No Order."
"In Suharto's time," said Wimar Witoelar, Indonesia's popular talk show host, "things were clear -- you always knew who to pay and how long to wait. Now you never know who's in charge. Before people were being killed by the government, now they are killed because of no government. Before there were Indonesia experts, but they were really just Suharto regime experts, because his behavior explained everything. Now Indonesians don't understand Indonesia. . . . In the Suharto period my talk show was popular because I made fun of the government. Now my show isn't so popular because the government is funnier than I am." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); POLAND (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); POLAND (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CORRUPTION (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); POLITICS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (75%); ARMIES (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); COLD WAR (68%); ARRESTS (66%); SCANDALS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (64%); BOMBINGS (64%); HOUSE ARREST (51%); STOCK EXCHANGES (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000



64 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
THE YEN FALLS. The yen dropped on speculation that a business confidence survey would not prompt the Japanese central bank to raise interest rates. In New York, the dollar settled at 108.84 yen, up from 108.02 on Friday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since April 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (74%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TRENDS (88%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (87%); INTEREST RATES (86%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000



65 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: September Orders Fall To 2-Year Low

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2

 BODY:
Manufacturing declined in September for the second consecutive month as orders slumped to a two-year low, a sign that higher borrowing and energy costs caused factories to cut back.
The National Association of Purchasing Management's factory index was 49.9 in September, compared with 49.5 a month earlier. A reading below 50 signals a contraction. The August decline in manufacturing had been the first since January 1999. An index measuring new orders stayed below 50 for a third consecutive month in September. 
 The report underscores why analysts expect Federal Reserve policy makers to leave interest rates unchanged at their meeting on Tuesday. "The Fed should be happy with this further evidence of a coasting manufacturing sector and moderate" consumer demand, said Christopher Low, chief economist at First Tennessee Capital Markets in New York.
In a separate report, the Commerce Department said that spending on construction of single-family houses fell 0.5 percent in August, the fifth consecutive decrease. While overall construction spending rose 1.4 percent, it was the first increase since March. The rise was paced by a 3.3 percent gain in public works spending that was the first since March.
Rising oil prices and six interest rate increases since June 1999 are two reasons the purchasing managers' index of new orders fell to 49.1 in September -- the lowest since 47.8 in November 1998 -- from 49.7 in August, the group said. Companies also attributed the 14 percent decline of the euro against the dollar for making their products less competitive overseas.
Companies are expected to report quarterly profit growth of 16 percent in the third quarter, the smallest gain in more than a year, according to analysts' forecast last week. Higher energy costs and a declining euro are expected to help cause the slowdown.
Manufacturers are also paring down inventories and clearing their backlogs of orders, the report showed. The production index rose to 52.1 from 48.7. Still, "with backlogs disappearing, if orders don't pick up soon, production could easily falter again," said Joel L. Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors in Holland, Pa.
The employment index rose to 50.9 from 48.2.
The most recent slump in manufacturing occurred during the eight months from June 1998 to January 1999, in the midst of a recession in Asia and parts of Latin America.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks total construction spending in billions of dollars at seasonally adjusted annual rates since March 1999. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (75%); ASIA (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (75%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (75%); ASIA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (75%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; PRODUCTION; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); NEW ORDERS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (79%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); RECESSION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); EURO (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); HOUSING STARTS (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); INFRASTRUCTURE (54%); 

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER LOW (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000



66 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1835 words

HEADLINE: 'A Tyrannical Situation';
Farmers Caught in Conflict Over Illegal Migrant Workers

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: GARDNERS, Pa.

 BODY:
The sun rose majestically over one side of Mark Rice's hilltop field, and a brilliant harvest moon lingered over the other, as Mr. Rice warmly greeted the 70 Mexicans who had gathered to pick his 900 acres of apples. "The trees," he said in a halting Spanish, "are heavy with fruit."
But by the time the workers had filled a few tractor-sized bins with golden delicious apples, both the moon and Mr. Rice's optimism had disappeared. "I've just got so much at risk here," he said as he anxiously surveyed a long row of trees that quivered with his newly hired hands. While all had working papers, experience suggested that most of the papers were falsified. "There's no way I could get my crop picked if I was legal." 
 Another harvest, another year of playing a familiar game for Mr. Rice and thousands of other American growers. From strawberry fields in California to fruit orchards like these on the gentle slopes near Gettysburg, farmers say they are being squeezed by a system that makes them feel like criminals.
"I'm an honest person, but if I want to stay in business, the only option I have is to follow an illegal course," said Mr. Rice, the seventh generation to be tied to this fertile land. An immigration raid would ruin his harvest, but it has been years since he was regularly able to hire any help except Mexicans. So he asks few questions, and keeps looking over his shoulder. "It's a tyrannical situation," he said.
With the economy employing practically every American who wants to work, dependence on Mexican immigrants -- fully documented or not -- is inescapable, especially in agriculture. Recognition that something needs to be changed is growing on both sides of the border, but so is the opposition.
In Washington, Republican lawmakers are pushing the biggest temporary-worker legislation since the Bracero program, which brought in waves of Mexican workers in the 1940's and 1950's. And Mexico's president-elect, Vicente Fox, says the United States should allow Mexican workers to cross the Rio Grande as easily as the products that make up the $196 billion in two-way trade.
The Clinton administration has rejected both proposals.
Still, Mr. Fox told Mr. Clinton it made no sense for the United States to spend almost $1 billion a year to guard the border with Mexico if American businesses need Mexican workers.
"I know many people in the United States want to see people as a burden, as a problem, but people are an asset," he has said. "If we have talented people, not only will Mexico progress, the United States will benefit and progress."
Mr. Fox knew he would make waves. But he seems to have miscalculated American uncertainty about whether immigration helps or hurts. Despite record low unemployment, the presence of so many migrants angers some Americans, from the Arizona ranchers who have shot at newcomers, to the unidentified men in Farmingville, N.Y., who severely beat two Mexicans looking for work.
More than three million undocumented Mexicans may be in the United States working in low-paying jobs. Nowhere is their presence more keenly felt than in agriculture.
The General Accounting Office recently estimated that 52 percent of the nation's 1.6 million farm workers are here illegally, a formidable army whose presence openly violates American laws. They are not just in California and Texas, but in places like this, in rural Adams County, Pa. Officials with farm-worker service programs here say that as many as 90 percent of the 8,000 Mexicans who come into Pennsylvania each year to help with the harvest may be illegal.
A nationwide amnesty in 1986 allowed 1.1 million undocumented Mexicans to gain legal residency. Another piece of legislation being considered in Washington would extend the amnesty and give more illegal immigrants legal residency. But that will do little to alter the underlying circumstances. With the economy booming, the United States is once again like a magnet, attracting over 340,000 new migrant workers a year -- most without proper papers.
Temporary field workers can cross the border legally, through a federal program referred to as H2A, but few come that way. The paperwork is so cumbersome, and some requirements so rigid, that last year only 41,000 agricultural workers came in with these temporary work visas.
Richard W. Pombo, a Republican congressman from California, has introduced a bill to revamp the H2A program to handle many more temporary workers and accomplish much of what Mr. Fox proposed. But the bill faces serious opposition from farm-worker advocacy groups and the Clinton administration, which has threatened to veto it.
During hearings, opponents argued that the bill would remove some protections already in the H2A program. Among other things, growers would be allowed to offer housing vouchers instead of being required to provide free shelter for workers. It would also force workers to return to Mexico for at least two months a year, even if they have family here.
The Mexican government supports the current program, and says it can be more widely used, but it says the proposed bill would hurt Mexicans.
"It sounds very good to say you are going to provide housing vouchers, but housing is not always available," said Jesus Reyes Heroles, Mexico's ambassador in Washington. American immigration officials have argued that there is nothing temporary about temporary visas, but Ambassador Reyes Heroles urged American lawmakers to take into account the success of a similar program run by Canada since 1974.
This year, more than 6,000 Mexican field workers will go to Canada. They have binding contracts and will go home when the season ends.
Critics oppose any attempt to expand H2A or normalize undocumented workers because of the burden such immigrants may place on social services. Some even argue that bringing in more Mexicans would ultimately hurt American agriculture by removing incentives for farmers to become more productive. Relying on cheap, plentiful Mexican labor, they say, has kept segments of American agriculture from mechanizing.
"Interfering with the existing labor market is a form of protectionism and agricultural subsidy," said Mark S. Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a nonpartisan research organization in Washington.
Lee S. Simpson, a California raisin producer, also says the influx of workers threatens American agriculture, and the proof is in his own unusual farming operation. When Mr. Simpson started growing grapes in Madera County 13 years ago, he relied on 100 Mexicans to pick his 160 acres of grapes, lay them in the sun to dry, and then collect them. But immigration raids and the uncertain labor supply drove him to find a new way.
Mr. Simpson, trained as an engineer, adapted a system used in Australia, growing his grape clusters on top of trellises. Ten year-round employees do the work formerly done by 100 farmhands. They cut the vines and leave the grapes on the trellis to dry into raisins. Weeks later, a mechanical harvester shakes them down.
"If they closed the border," Mr. Simpson said, "and they built a wall long enough and high enough, and there was no more labor coming in, I would still survive, probably with a smile on my face."
About a dozen raisin producers now use Mr. Simpson's method. But most growers say they cannot foresee a mechanical picker handling something as delicate as a bosc pear or an empire apple. Without Hispanic workers, "we would not be here," said William B. Lower Jr., a fourth-generation apple grower and president of the Adams County Fruit Growers Association.
Mr. Lower said he would support Mr. Fox's proposal because legal workers are in short supply. When not enough Mexicans come to the orchards, the results can be devastating. Last year, Louy Kuntz, a nearby grower, let 30,000 bushels of golden delicious apples fall to the ground because he was shorthanded.
Orchards are an important part of the Adams County economy, and their success rests on the slim shoulders of men like Proceso Marquez, 50, who came from central Mexico without legal documents to pick apples for less than a penny apiece.
"There is a lot of work here," Mr. Marquez said at the end of an 11-hour day. He made his way to the border last October and waited there until a smuggler offered to take him across for $1,500. "He told me I could go to work right away," Mr. Marquez said. "And I did."
Many farmers say they would never be able to stand in the shoes of a Mexican who traveled 2,000 miles to pick apples in Pennsylvania. But Mr. Lower said he understood Mr. Fox's thinking about using jobs in the United States to raise the standard of living of Mexicans. One of the first Mexican farmhands Mr. Lower hired was Arturo Bermejo, who crossed illegally at Tijuana in the 1970's and then made his way to Pennsylvania. While working the Lower family's fields starting in 1983, Mr. Bermejo saved enough to open a small store in nearby Arendtsville.
Mr. Bermejo died in 1995, but today his widow, Teresa, runs La Mexicana Store and restaurant, where local Mexicans gather after work. Her son Jesus is a sophomore at Penn State University, studying business administration.
"My husband would have been very happy," she said recently. "He always said he wanted his only son to have a better life."
The better life was what Samuel Contreras, 27, was seeking when he paid $1,300 to cross the border from Agua Prieta to Douglas, Ariz., where migrants had had violent confrontations with American ranchers. He was turned back twice, but on the third attempt he made it, and now expects to earn $4,000 or $5,000 in two months driving a tractor.
"What Fox says would be good, because it would mean that we could cross legally and people wouldn't suffer the way they do now," he said.
By midmorning on the first day of the apple harvest, Mr. Rice, the fruit grower, was a frazzled bundle of nerves. He drove his dusty pickup from field to field at stomp-the-pedal speeds and once ran out of gas. He smoked and worried nonstop. He has already lost two stands of peaches to disease, and if it gets worse he may have trouble attracting workers because peaches, which are picked earlier, draw in apple pickers who want more work.
Without peaches, Mr. Rice said, he could end up like some of his neighbors who lost parts of their crop. So he has investigated the H2A program, even though he does not relish dealing with recruiters and corrupt Mexican officials. That is one reason he, too, would have no problem with open borders.
"Fox is definitely going the right way," he said. Opening the border would not be without problems, he acknowledged. And he realizes that plenty of people who do not rely on migrant workers want to slam the border shut. But there is still his fruit to harvest.
"His words just ring so true, around here anyway," Mr. Rice said. "But I guess it's just not politically acceptable to say that we need these people."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A crew list, above, with apple tags. A temporary worker, right, picks apples from trees grown by Mark Rice on 900 acres in Pennsylvania. Mr. Rice says he is forced to rely on Mexican-born pickers to harvest his yearly apple crop.; Mark Rice holds tags for his apples that are picked by Mexican-born workers. "There's no way I could get my crop picked if I was legal," he says. (Photographs by John Zeedick for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Lee S. Simpson, a California raisin producer, has developed a system of growing gapes on trellises and then leaving them there to dry in the sun. Ten year-round employees now do the work of 100 temporary workers. (Gary Kazanjian for The New York Times)(pg. C2)
 
Chart: "Don't Ask, Don't Tell"
Farmers in the United States are increasingly dependent on Mexican-born workers to harvest their crops, with the majority of workers now believed to be illegal immigrants with false working papers.
 
Graph compares the estimated number of Mexican-born workers to the estimated number of illegal aliens working in the United States since 1989.
(Source: Labor Department)(pg. C1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (96%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ;GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; MEXICO; UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; FARMERS; ILLEGAL ALIENS; MIGRANT LABOR; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; LABOR FOREIGN LABOR (90%); FARM LABOR (90%); MIGRANT WORKERS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); LEGISLATION (85%); APPLE ORCHARDS (78%); FRUIT & NUT FARMING (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); REFUGEES (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (71%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE (63%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY; RICE, MARK; FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (GOV); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) VICENTE FOX QUESADA (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000



67 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Reject U.S. Bid to Lower U.N. Dues

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 2

 BODY:
The European Union today rebuffed an American request to have Washington's dues to the United Nations lowered, as a crucial review of how much each country should contribute to the organization's budget began.
The European message, delivered by Ambassador Jean-David Levitte of France, which now holds the union's rotating presidency, echoes voices of opposition from Japan, other Asian countries and a number of developing nations that reject a reduction in dues for the United States, the country with the world's largest and arguably strongest economy. 
 The United States, still the United Nations' largest debtor, has been arguing that a restructuring of assessments is overdue, and Ambassador Richard C. Holbrooke, the American envoy who is under an ultimatum from Congress to cut American contributions, has been casting a revision of the payment scale as a broader reform measure here.
"The roots of this issue run deep," he said, "and they don't relate solely to the United States failure to pay all of its dues on time."
Many other nations agree that the scale needs reworking, but only to reflect real changes in the world economy. Budget assessments are based on a nation's share of the world gross national product and on currency movements.
By that standard, some countries in financial trouble should pay less and a number of newly affluent countries should pay more, but the United States -- with about 27 percent to 29 percent of the total world gross national product and an assessment rate of 25 percent -- would not qualify for a reduction. Europe's collective share of the world G.N.P. is also about 29 percent.
"The European Union nonetheless contributes 36.6 percent of the regular budget," Mr. Levitte said today. "That is a distortion, and means in stark terms that each of the Union's member states pays considerably more than its national wealth."
In addition to the bill for 25 percent of the United Nations regular annual $1 billion budget, the United States is charged for 30 percent of the separate, fluctuating peacekeeping budget, which in the coming year is likely to total more than $2.5 billion. Congress has already lowered peacekeeping payments to 25 percent -- a move seen here as a violation of treaty obligations -- and is now demanding that the regular budget share be reduced to 22 percent.
Americans have couched this as a request for a general lowering of the ceiling on any regular budget contribution. The Europeans rejected that today in their opening position in a debate that is likely to go on into December. The review of assessments for both budgets is conducted every three years.
"We consider that the ceiling of 25 percent is already a great privilege because the United States represents 29 percent of the world G.N.P.," Mr. Levitte said in an interview after his speech. "Already the U.S. is paying 4 percent less than its share in world GNP."
"Our growth in the E.U. has been, unfortunately, less impressive than the growth in the United States, and the euro is going down while the dollar is going up," he said. "The E.U. contribution should go down and the U.S. contribution should go up. What we cannot accept is the ceiling going down from 25 percent to 22. It is too unfair. The principle for everybody is the capacity to pay."
Japan is also opposed to a lowering of American dues when the Japanese, with just below 15 percent of world G.N.P. is assessed 20.6 percent of the regular United Nations budget.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); ASIA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; EUROPEAN UNION UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; EUROPEAN UNION UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); ASIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY BUDGETS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); CURRENCIES (51%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA RICHARD HOLBROOKE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000



68 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Xerox Releases Warning About a 3rd-Quarter Loss

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
The Xerox Corporation, citing lower sales at a time of rising costs, warned investors yesterday that it would report a third-quarter loss of 15 cents to 20 cents a share.
Xerox made the announcement after the stock market had closed, promising to elaborate at an 8:30 a.m. conference call with analysts today. But investors were not patient. Shares of Xerox, which had closed at $15.31 -- actually up 31 cents -- plummeted in after-hours trading, to as low as $12.50, its lowest level since October 1993. 
 While few analysts had anticipated actual red ink, most had expected Xerox to have a lackluster quarter. According to Charles L. Hill, research director of First Call/Thompson Financial, analysts rushed to lower their earnings estimates in late July, when Xerox warned that the entire second half of this year would be disappointing. Before then, analysts had predicted earnings of 38 cents for the quarter; as of yesterday, the consensus was just 12 cents.
It was still unclear yesterday whether Xerox's problems were specific to the company, or a sign of a general malaise in the industry. For its part, Xerox cited a potpourri of reasons for its projected loss: weak sales in September, increased competitive pressures, European currency deteriorations, all compounded by higher bad-debt provisions and increased costs to resolve customer administration issues.
But numerous office equipment and imaging companies, including Lexmark, Kodak, Apple and Intel, have issued earnings warnings for the third quarter, and most have attributed it to plunging sales. Several analysts yesterday suggested that uncertainty about the economy might have prompted consumers and businesses alike to put off buying new copiers or printers.
"We've been doing channel checks for a week now, and we're seeing softness in copiers, printers, digital cameras, all kinds of equipment," said Gibboney Huske, an analyst with Credit Suisse First Boston.
Xerox, which is based in Stamford, Conn., does have a unique set of problems, though. It still suffers the after-effects of a misconceived sales force reorganization in early 1999, in which it switched from assigning sales territories by geography to a system in which sales representatives were assigned to specific industries. Confusion ensued, and many experienced representatives left.
At the same time, Xerox also consolidated many back-office operations last year, causing backlogs in accounts receivables and billing problems. Thus, many Xerox invoices went unpaid, while the sales representatives had to cope with new clients even as they fielded irate calls from old ones.
"An economy that's generally weaker than people thought it would be is part of the equation, but we can't deny there are problems at Xerox and that obviously some of those problems have gotten worse," said Jack L. Kelly, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Company.
Xerox's sales force woes could not have come at a worse time. Heidelberger Druckmaschinen A.G. of Germany, Canon Inc. of Japan, and most recently, I.B.M. -- with a high-speed copier that uses a Heidelberger engine -- are making deep inroads into the market for Segment Six copiers, which are extremely high-speed copiers that are Xerox's most profitable product line. And both Canon and Ricoh are cutting heavily into sales in so-called Segment 5, the next-fastest machines. Moreover, analysts say Ikon Office Solutions, Canon's main distributor, is poised to step up its marketing efforts for Canon copiers.
Indeed, despite the seeming pall on the office equipment industry, Canon, which is Xerox's main competitor in copiers, --and Hewlett-Packard, which is the main rival in printers, seem to be relatively unscathed. Hewlett announced recently that it would meet earnings expectations.
And Canon, seems to be going full steam. "I get the sense that Canon's performance is on track, and it is clear that Canon continues to gain significant market share in all its segments," said Jonathan Rosenzweig, an analyst with Salomon Smith Barney.
Xerox already is planning some belt tightening. "Clearly, actions beyond resolving our operational issues are required, including major cost reductions, asset dispositions and a review of the dividend level," Paul A. Allaire, Xerox's chairman, and Anne M. Mulcahy, its president, said in a joint statement yesterday.
Some analysts suggest that the company might shed its financing businesses or its facilities management business. Still others suggested that Xerox would sell its stake in the myriad software companies it has helped start recently, or even take them public. And quite a few suggested that Xerox will have to cut back on its investments in inkjet printer technology, even though the company has often pointed to printer sales as a major part of its future revenue.
"The fact is, they are losing money in inkjet, and maybe they'll have to lower their competitive intensity for now," Ms. Huske said.
Still, most analysts shrugged off rumors that Xerox would be taken over. Hewlett-Packard, an obvious suitor, would run into formidable antitrust objections, while Canon would risk alienating Ikon and its other major distributors. And, perhaps most telling, as one analyst put it, "In the shape they're in, who would want them?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (94%); GS (NYSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%); CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: XEROX CORP; XEROX CORP XEROX CORP (94%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); INTEL CORP (54%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: XEROX CORP; XEROX CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES COMPANY LOSSES (91%); PROFIT WARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SALES FORCE (89%); PHOTOCOPIER MFG (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PHOTOCOPIERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (70%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (65%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (64%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (64%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000



69 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: SYDNEY 2000;
A Gold Medalist's Plea for Peace

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY PRATT 

DATELINE: CALI, Colombia, Oct. 2

 BODY:
Maria Isabel Urrutia made the most of her gold medal moment as she tried to address the armed guerrillas in her homeland.
"I'm sending a special message to them," she said from Sydney, Australia, after winning the women's 75-kilogram (165 1/3-pound) Olympic weight-lifting event, "hoping they take pity on the families of all the people they have in captivity." 
 The message couldn't have been more timely. Two nights before, here in Urrutia's home city, 50 armed men from the second of two guerrilla armies fighting the state for nearly 40 years kidnapped an estimated 80 people from roadside restaurants on the outskirts of town.
After Urrutia became Colombia's first Olympic gold medalist, her achievement was best understood in the context of this troubled country's chaos. In less than two weeks, countrymen have converted her into a symbol for everything from the value of hard work to a symbol of peace amid civil war.
In the crowded, work-in-progress house where 9 of her 13 brothers and sisters died before her athletic career ever began, well-wishers came and went upon her return. There were local police and "lifelong friends" whom, Urrutia's mother, Nelly, insisted were no more than Johnny-come-latelies.
Before her daughter's arrival, Nelly had gotten on her first plane ride and found herself in the capital city of Bogota, on national television, standing beside Colombia President Andres Pastrana.
"Don't get mad or anything," she said to Pastrana, "but I really think my daughter's medal should make you think about giving more support to our country's athletes, since most of them are pretty poor."
Her mother knows. Twenty-two years ago, when Maria Isabel was just 13, the teenager walked an hour to and from Cali's track and field stadium every day, lacking coins for the bus. Soon after taking a job serving coffee in a local company, she was fired two months later when she asked for permission to compete at a meet in Chile.
At 20, Urrutia began training in the morning and working as a telephone operator in the afternoon, a routine she continued until recently. In 1988, a Bulgarian trainer, Gantcho Mitco Karouchrov, felt Urrutia had the physique of a champion in another sport. Women's weight lifting had just held its first world championship in Daytona Beach, Fla., the year before.
For a decade, under the same trainer, Urrutia won nine gold medals in world championships. But the hardships didn't cease.
Several years ago, Karouchrov lamented: "We can't work with the state's promises. We need results. We have no equipment, no medicine, nothing."
In 1999, at the age of 34, Urrutia thought of retiring. But the International Olympic Committee decided to include women's weight lifting as a medal sport in Sydney for the first time, and she was encouraged. However in August 1999 at the Pan-American Games in Winnipeg, Canada, she tore cartilage in her knee.
Her coach and surgeon said she would have to lose 40 pounds to recover.
She did, with the help of acupuncture, "to control the mental side of eating habits."
Colombia's Olympic Committee then announced it would halve her support for this year from $20,000. "They didn't think I was going to make it, so they didn't want to invest in me," she said.
Andres Botero, the president of Colombia's Olympic Committee, denied her charge, calling the dispute "the sort of contract negotiation all athletes go through." In March, while the issue was still boiling, Botero told El Espectador, a leading daily, that he had more confidence in a younger member of the women's weight-lifting team.
The conflict was resolved in June while Urrutia trained for Sydney with her own savings. She holds no bitterness and dedicated her triumph "to those who believed in me and those who didn't."
On the day after winning her historic medal, a cartoon appeared in Bogota's newspaper, El Tiempo. It showed President Pastrana struggling to lift a pair of barbells, with the words "guerrillas," "kidnapping," "narcotics trafficking," and "unemployment" written on the weights. In the cartoon, he screams: "Maria Isabel!"
When Urrutia arrived home late last week, Pastrana was not at the airport to greet her.
Asked about his absence, Urrutia said "someone said it was because he was busy seeing David Copperfield," the magician who was in Bogota. Then she laughed and smiled.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maria Isabel Urrutia asked the guerrilla armies in Colombia to "take pity on the families of all the people they have in captivity." (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (91%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; SYDNEY (AUSTRALIA); COLOMBIA (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (91%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS); WEIGHT LIFTING; OLYMPIC GAMES (2000) OLYMPICS (92%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (89%); WEIGHTLIFTING (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); FAMILY (76%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (71%); POLICE FORCES (70%); SPORTS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION (67%); TRACK & FIELD (66%); DISMISSALS (61%); 

PERSON: PRATT, TIMOTHY; URRUTIA, MARIA ISABEL MARIA ISABEL URRUTIA (95%); ANDRES PASTRANA (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000



70 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: New Efficiency Standards Proposed for Appliances

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2

 BODY:
Central air-conditioning and heat pumps would have to do the same amount of work on 20 percent to 30 percent less electricity under standards that will be proposed on Tuesday by the Energy Department as part of a broad effort to reduce consumption by appliances to cut air pollution, fuel use and strain on the electric system.
The added costs for central air-conditioning and heat pumps would be greater than the cost of the energy saved, officials said, but the reduced need for new power plants might make up the difference. 
 The standards would add $274 to the price of new central air-conditioners, an increase of about 12 percent, and $486 to the price of new heat pumps, an increase of about 13 percent, the department said.
"We're not only helping consumers to save energy and money on their monthly utility bills," Energy Secretary Bill Richardson said in a telephone interview, "we're also helping ensure that the country has enough power to meet its energy needs."
The energy-saving strategy also includes a proposal to make clothes washers 35 percent more efficient in use of water and power, which will be announced this week; a new standard making water heaters 5 percent to 9 percent more efficient, proposed in April; and a new rule on fluorescent lamps, published in final form on Sept. 19.
Coincidentally, a new rule requiring that room air-conditioners be 10 percent more efficient took effect on Sunday. A rule that will make refrigerators 30 percent more efficient takes effect on July 1.
The department is also considering an additional standard that would require central air-conditioners to be built to run at peak efficiency at 92 degrees to hold down demand on the hottest days of summer.
The proposal to be announced on Tuesday calls for central air-conditioners to be 20 percent more efficient and for heat pumps, which cool in summer and heat in winter, to be 30 percent more efficient. It has divided manufacturers, who had planned a meeting with Mr. Richardson last week but canceled it, apparently because they could not decide on a common strategy.
At the Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute, a trade group here, Edward W. Dooley, a spokesman, said that if efficiency requirements pushed prices too high, some people would not be able to afford to buy the appliances. But Mr. Dooley said his group had not decided how high was too high.
Conservation advocates said the department was being too timid. David M. Nemtzow, director of the Alliance to Save Energy, said the government had ignored the experience of last summer in New York and elsewhere, which showed that electricity prices shot up when air-conditioning was needed.
And, Mr. Nemtzow said, the efficiency of air-conditioners has a strong impact on emission of gases believed to cause climate change.
"They assign no value to the fact that it avoids carbon," he said. "A higher standard is completely justified."
Mr. Richardson said the department was "on a rush to establish an environmental and energy self-sufficiency legacy." He is acting under a 1987 law that required the department to set standards for common household appliances, and revisit them intermittently. But the fate of the standards under a new administration is not clear.
There is no new technology involved in the rules; many appliances, including some air-conditioners and washers, already meet the proposed standards.
The energy-saving techniques vary. Washers, for example, will have to have sensors to measure the amount of clothes in them and meter out precisely the amount of water needed; they will also spin faster, cutting down the work that the clothes dryer must do. Air-conditioners will have to have more efficient compressors. Water heaters will need more insulation and may require a U-shaped trap, like the one under the kitchen sink. This one, though, will stop hot water from rising up the pipe when no faucet is turned on, keeping the water in the heater until it is needed.
The rules would take effect on varying dates; the washing machine rule would not be completely effective until 2007. The department estimates that in 2010, the six new standards will collectively save 2.4 quadrillion B.T.U.'s, enough energy to light every American home for nearly two years.
The financial impact on consumers would be quite small, but the economy and environment would benefit, the department said. The only proposal that will cost slightly more than it saves is the air-conditioner rule, which would cost $1 billion to $2 billion over 25 years, on top of the expected cost of owning and operating the units of $380 billion.
The clothes washer standard would add as much as $240 to the cost of a washer, doubling the price of a bottom-of-the-line model, but would save consumers $30 a year, because machines would run on less electricity, use less energy to heat water and use less water. Nationally, that comes to $15.3 billion over 25 years.
Unlike the air-conditioner rule, the washer rule is a consensus proposal of the manufacturers and environmental groups.
The water heater proposal, published in April, would add $68 to the cost of an electric water heater and $45 to a gas model, and over the nine-year life of the unit would save the customer $152 more than the extra initial cost, according to the department; for the gas model, the saving would be $116 above additional costs.
The lighting rule, published in final form last month, will add $7 to the minimum cost of a ballast, the major component of a fluorescent fixture besides the tube itself. The device would pay for itself within three years, the department believes.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (65%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: ENERGY DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (65%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: ENERGY AND POWER; AIR POLLUTION; AIR CONDITIONING; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); HVAC SYSTEMS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); HVAC & REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); INTERVIEWS (73%); POWER PLANTS (73%); CLIMATE CHANGE (72%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L BILL RICHARDSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000



71 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasury Prices Fall on Concerns Over Oil

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Treasury bond prices fell yesterday as rising oil prices revived worries about inflation.
The price of the 10-year Treasury note fell 5/32, to a price of 99 16/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.82 percent from 5.80 percent on Friday. 
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 17/32, to 104 18/32. The bond's yield rose to 5.92 percent from 5.88 percent on Friday.
Crude oil for November delivery in New York climbed $1.34, to $32.18 a barrel yesterday.
Rising oil prices have hurt bond prices for the last month. Higher oil prices could lead to accelerating inflation. and that would reduce the price of bonds, which pay a fixed rate of return.
 
Results of yesterday's Treasury auction of 3-month and 6-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.464	96.946	High Rate	6.07%	6.04%	Investment Rate	6.25%	6.31%	Low Rate	6.03%	5.95%	Median Rate	6.05%	6.03%	Total applied for	$29,048,652	$27,571,150	Accepted	$14,423,162	$13,751,100	Noncompetitive	$1,222,384	$1,211,980	
 
Both issues are dated Oct. 5, 2000. The three-month bills mature on Jan. 4, 2001, and the six-month bills mature on April 5, 2001.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (75%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES TREASURY SECURITIES (95%); BONDS (95%); BOND MARKETS (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); AUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000



72 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Nasdaq Continues to Slide, Falling 7 of Last 8 Sessions

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Investors continued to sell technology stocks yesterday, sending the Nasdaq composite index down for the seventh time in the last eight sessions. Broader gauges were narrowly mixed.
"People spent most of the year leaning hard on the cyclical, old- economy stocks," said Jonathan Olesky, head of block trading at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "Now there is a risk in the new-economy stocks." 
 By the close, the Nasdaq composite index was down 103.92 points, or 2.8 percent, to 3,568.90. High-profile names like Microsoft, Sun Microsystems, JDS Uniphase and Juniper Networks led the decline.
Gains in I.B.M., J. P. Morgan and Exxon Mobil helped lift the Dow Jones industrial average, which closed at 10,700.13, by 49.21 points, or 0.5 percent.
But the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was essentially unchanged. The index closed at 1,436.23, down 0.28 point.
Gains in telephone equipment makers like Lucent Technologies and Nortel Networks offset losses in higher-priced technology names.
Worries about technology stocks have grown stronger over the last two weeks as several high-profile companies have warned that third-quarter earnings would not meet Wall Street estimates.
Investors have tended to thrash the stocks that have said they would not meet expectations. But yesterday, they chose to treat Caterpillar somewhat differently. Caterpillar said it would fall short of third-quarter estimates but would meet analysts' full-year estimates.
The shares rose 44 cents yesterday, to $34.25. Despite the gain, Caterpillar shares are down more than 25 percent this year.
By contrast, Sun Microsystems, a technology favorite that has given no guidance on third-quarter earnings, fell $3.19, to $113.56. Sun shares are up more than 45 percent this year.
"There is a feeling out there that there needs to be a dramatic re-evaluation of technology stock valuations," said William Meehan, chief market analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald. "And there is concern about how strong the growth for technology is going to be."
A report yesterday from the National Association of Purchasing Managers, which showed a decline in manufacturing last month, had little effect on stocks, Mr. Meehan and others said.
And most analysts said the report, coupled with other small signs that the economy was slowing, would probably persuade Federal Reserve policy makers, who meet today in Washington, to maintain their current stance on interest rates.
"If the Fed went to a neutral bias, it would be an important positive development for the market," Mr. Olesky said, "because I don't think there is a high expectation for that. The expectation is that they will leave interest rates unchanged and maintain their bias to tighten."
Nortel and Lucent, two telecommunications stocks that fell in the third quarter, had a good day.
Nortel gained $2.25, to $62.38. And Lucent rose $2.44, to $31.
Elsewhere, Summit Bancorp gained $3.63, to $38.13, after news that FleetBoston Financial, the nation's eighth-largest bank, had agreed to buy Summit for $39.78 a share.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (83%); ALU (NYSE) (83%); ALU (BIT) (83%); MS (NYSE) (58%); JNPR (NYSE) (57%); JDU (TSX) (57%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); XOM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (83%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (83%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (69%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); JUNIPER NETWORKS INC (57%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (57%); JDS UNIPHASE CORP (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (79%); BONDS (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (75%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N WILLIAM MEEHAN (61%); JONATHAN OLESKY (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000



73 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Move to Save Wildlife Snags Spending Bill

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2

 BODY:
The three oddly named species two birds and a fish -- are unfamiliar to most people. But the piping plover, the least tern and the pallid sturgeon have emerged as central players in the drama surrounding passage by Congress of a $23.6 billion spending bill for energy and water projects.
The fate of the three species, all of which live on the upper reaches of the Missouri River, is, according to the environmentalists and Clinton administration officials, tied to increasing the river's spring flows every three years and reducing water levels by about one-third for 8 to 10 weeks in the summer. 
 That idea, however, has led to a major water fight between environmentalists and the recreation industry in up-river states like South Dakota on one side and farmers and the barge industry in downriver states like Missouri on the other.
Senator Christopher S. Bond, Republican of Missouri, has attached a provision to the spending measure blocking the Army Corps of Engineers from implementing its plan to change the river flows.
Mr. Bond has argued that the plan increases the risk of catastrophic springtime floods in his state and that keeping the water levels low in the summer will harm barge operators on the Missouri.
The Senate approved the energy and water projects measure today despite a threat issued last week by the White House chief of staff, John D. Podesta, who wrote Congressional leaders that if Mr. Bond's amendment remained, President Clinton would veto the bill.
Today's vote, largely along party lines, was 57 to 37, less than the two-thirds necessary to override a veto.
Yet in the calculus that often surrounds spending bills where state political interests often clash with national ones, the fight over the flow of the Missouri River presented the administration with a difficult choice.
Should it side with environmentalists, an important constituency, and the Senate minority leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, a key ally? Mr. Daschle is trying to protect the $85 billion recreation industry in up-river states, where lakes, streams and reservoirs favored by anglers are often drained to maintain high river flows for barges on the lower stretches of the river.
But choosing to support the environmentalists and Mr. Daschle, who favor the Corps plan, may exact a political toll.
The Army proposal is opposed by Missouri Democrats, like the House minority leader, Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the mayors of St. Louis and Kansas City and Gov. Mel Carnahan, whose close race for the Senate could be affected by the veto.
And, some Republicans warn that if Mr. Clinton carries through with his veto threat, he might alienate enough Missouri voters to cost Vice President Al Gore that state in the presidential election.
"People in Missouri know about this," Mr. Bond said, "and if the Gore campaign believes it is in their interest to have Clinton veto this, I guarantee you this will have political ramifications."
Much of this fight is over one small, stocky, insect-eating bird, the piping plover; another forked-tail member of the gull family, the least tern, and the pallid sturgeon, a fish whose ancestors date back 150 million years, according to fossil records.
"Certainly they have been on this planet a lot longer than the politicians who are currently debating this issue," said Mike Olson, the Missouri River Coordinator at the United States Fish and Wildlife's office in Bismarck, N.D.
Once abundant in the Missouri and on its banks and sand bars, the three species are all threatened, and the pallid sturgeon is approaching extinction.
Fish and Wildlife biologists and environmentalists blame management of the Missouri for the species' problems.
Dredged to create a deep, fast-moving channel and with upstream dams releasing water at constant and high rate -- all to accommodate barge traffic -- the Missouri has become increasingly unfriendly for the species. Biologists say that the sturgeons' spawning behavior is set off by a rise in water flow in the spring.
"The spring rise helps give them the urge to do the right thing," Mr. Olson said.
The fast-flowing spring river also washes organic material into the Missouri, which helps increase the number of insects that the piping plover feeds on, and helps create sand bars that are nesting areas for the plovers and the terns.
Reducing water flows creates small pools where the baby sturgeon can grow without fear of larger predatory fish or being buried by sediment.
Environmentalists and the Fish and Wildlife Service argue that for years the Army Corps of Engineers has operated the Missouri River primarily for the benefit of the barge industry, spending $7 million to $8 million for an industry whose Missouri River operations only generate $6.8 million in economic benefits.
But a coalition of farmers, grain companies and barge operators say they worry that lowering the water levels and in essence creating two shipping seasons would mean the demise of the barge industry on the Missouri, leaving railroads with a virtual monopoly on transporting bulk cargo. They also argue that the increase in the spring flows will make down-river states more vulnerable to floods like the record 1993 deluge that devastated the region.
"The reason we manage the waterway system was to provide a low cost transportation system on the river and prevent these flooding events. What Fish and Wildlife wants to do is reverse that trend," said Christopher Brescia, president of the Midwest Area River Coalition 2000, a group of agricultural and industrial producers, shippers and barge operators that oppose the Corps plan.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A plan to change the flow of the Missouri River to aid the least tern, top left, the piping plover and the pallid sturgeon is under attack. (Top left, Ron Willoks/Animals Animals; top right and above, Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (96%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; MISSOURI RIVER; SOUTH DAKOTA; UNITED STATES (96%); MISSOURI, USA (96%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; VETOES (US); ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; TERNS (BIRDS); FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; STURGEON (FISH); ENVIRONMENT; BARGES AND SCOWS; WATERWAYS AND OTHER BODIES OF WATER; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; FLOODS; ENERGY AND POWER; PLOVER (BIRD); BIRDS LEGISLATION (91%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); RIVERS (90%); BIRDS (90%); FLOOD CONTROL (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); FISHES (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VETO (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); LAKES (78%); SPORT FISHING (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); MARINE SHIPPING (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); ARMIES (75%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); APPROVALS (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); NATURAL DISASTERS (66%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HOLMES, STEVEN A; BOND, CHRISTOPHER S (SEN) KIT BOND (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); TOM DASCHLE (75%); AL GORE (57%); JOHN PODESTA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000



74 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Brookhaven Lab to Get $170 Million From U.S.

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY 

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., Oct. 2

 BODY:
Brookhaven National Laboratory is slated to receive $170 million in federal money, including $5 million for an accelerated cleanup of environmental hazards, under a bill approved by the Senate today. The money is expected to allow the lab to take on additional projects.
The federal laboratory, in Upton, is to receive $100 million for projects using its relativistic heavy-ion collider, which smashes together the nuclei of very heavy atoms at nearly the speed of light. An additional $35 million would support the spallation neutron source, which generates neutrons without using nuclear reactors. The national synchrotron light source, a powerful X-ray used to examine molecules, is to receive $3 million and an additional 12 employees. The remaining money would go toward other projects. 
 The lab has come under fire in recent years for contaminating soil and ground water on the 5,300-acre property, which has been a federal Superfund site since 1989. In 1996, lab officials announced that radioactive tritium had been leaking from the lab's high-flux beam reactor into the ground water. The government later dismissed the contractor that had run the lab for 50 years.
Senator Charles E. Schumer, the Brooklyn Democrat, sponsored the bill in the Senate. "I see bringing Brookhaven back as one of my high priorities," Mr. Schumer said in a phone interview, "not only for Long Island but for all of New York, and I think this year's budget really begins us on that track.
"As Long Island's economy moves into a high-tech mode, there's an understanding of the huge ancillary benefit that scientific research brings. Look, there are still some people who are opposed to one thing or another, but overall the tone between town and gown, if you will, is much, much improved."
But one group opposed to nuclear research has raised concerns about the new money for the cleanup. Scott Cullen, a lawyer for the Standing for Truth About Radiation Foundation, based in East Hampton, said he was worried about how the money would be allocated.
The group is also concerned about the company handling the cleanup, the Bechtel Corporation. "At other places where they did it quicker, they also did it dirtier," Mr. Cullen said.
The director of the lab, John Marburger, said Bechtel was responsible for managing the cleanup and would subcontract some of the work. "It is not the case that this money will simply go to Bechtel," he said. "This money actually will pay for cleanup activities that will accelerate the cleanup. We are not giving up our responsibility or our control with this arrangement."
The House passed the bill on Friday, and President Clinton is expected to sign it. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (85%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY BECHTEL GROUP INC (85%); BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (94%); BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (94%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (82%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (94%); BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (94%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (82%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PHYSICS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (90%); TEST LABORATORIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); SUPERFUND (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (78%); PARTICLE PHYSICS (76%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (76%); INTERVIEWS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (70%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (63%); 

PERSON: KELLEY, TINA CHARLES SCHUMER (57%); BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000



75 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Report Gives Nassau Weeks To Fix Budget

BYLINE: By AL BAKER 

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., Oct. 2

 BODY:
In a withering report, a state board monitoring Nassau County's fiscal crisis said today that the county executive had failed to balance the budget in his new four-year rescue plan. The report urged county officials to come up with a sound proposal by the end of the month. If they fail, they face a state takeover.
It was the board's first public comment on the plan submitted two weeks ago by the county executive, Thomas S. Gulotta, and scrutinized ever since by county lawmakers who say that it lacks sufficient detail and that its numbers do not add up. The state board agreed today with many of the criticisms, estimating, for instance, that Mr. Gulotta's $2.2 billion budget proposal for next year counts on more than $80 million in spending cuts or revenues that, for one reason or another, may not come to pass. 
 But the board firmly lobbed the job of fixing Nassau's stubborn financial problem back not only to Mr. Gulotta, but also to the County Legislature, whose members are often deeply divided. That opens the door to bigger tax increases or more severe cuts in services than Mr. Gulotta, a Republican, has proposed. Mr. Gulotta's plan calls for a property tax increase that would average $33 per household. The Democrats who control the County Legislature are considering an increase that would average $78 to $100.
The 37-page report, issued today by the state board, the Nassau Interim Finance Authority, is a new chapter in a long story: how one of the nation's wealthiest counties hurtled to the edge of bankruptcy in an otherwise soaring economic climate.
"The education I have received as part of this board has been eye-opening and saddening," Robert Wallach, a panelist, said today at a public meeting to adopt the report, drafted by the authority's staff.
"I pray to God that you will tap us and others in Nassau County," Mr. Wallach told public officials, "because otherwise Nassau will look very much like the scorched earth rather than a very fruitful garden that it should be. I wish you a lot of luck."
All three sides in the divided government -- Judith A. Jacobs, a Democrat and the presiding officer of the County Legislature; Peter J. Schmitt, the Republican minority leader; and Mr. Gulotta -- said today that they could still come up with a workable budget.
The task will be monumental. Time is running out, and the three leaders have yet to meet without Frank G. Zarb, the chairman of the seven-member state board, being present to referee.
In its report, the board details $81.7 million worth of spending cuts and expected revenue in Mr. Gulotta's 2001 budget that Mr. Zarb called "risky" to count on. It also questioned items that, over four years, would add up to nearly $1 billion in savings. It said those items in Mr. Gulotta's plan lacked sufficient detail or would require the approval of state lawmakers, local municipal unions or others.
Two weeks ago, for instance, the board asked Mr. Gulotta for more detail on $74.5 million worth of proposed spending cuts through 2004. The board received a response late last week, but not in time for those answers to be reflected in its report.
"The county's failure to address the deficiencies discussed herein will result in budgets that will further erode the county's fiscal health and jeopardize its financial well-being," the report's conclusion stated.
If county officials fail to address the criticisms, the board -- which is now advising the county -- is empowered to seize day-to-day control of the county's finances. For now, all sides are working to prevent that.
By county law, the next year's budget must be adopted by Oct. 30, though Mr. Zarb, who was chosen by Gov. George E. Pataki to head the state board, would like one to be passed sooner. Ms. Jacobs said yesterday that the Legislature hoped to approve a budget on Oct. 19.
"We're not saying it can't be fixed," said Richard M. Kessel, a member of the state board. "It can be fixed; it can be repaired. But it is going to take some work. They have this month to get it done."
The report is not without some praise for Mr. Gulotta's budget. Unlike past budgets, the 2001 plan contains no so-called one-shots, one-time sources of revenue like the sale of a hospital or of the county's rights to tobacco settlement money.
Still, the report is full of harsh words.
The state board sternly criticized tentative agreements Mr. Gulotta had reached with three unions for county police officers, detectives and correction officers. The costs of the proposed contracts amount to nearly $200 million over seven years, including proposed 22 percent pay increases for the police officers and detectives who are already among the highest paid in the nation.
One member of the state board, David H. Peirez, said he found the proposed raises "unconscionable."
Mr. Gulotta said the deals would save the county $60 million in costs in increasing law enforcement costs over five years. He said those savings would be the result of concessions the unions have made, like an agreement to replace 110 officers with lower-paid civilians.
But the state board said many of the concessions had already been factored into county budgets. And it questioned whether the effort to replace officers with civilians could be accomplished in time.
The board's report notes that the county's projection that it will collect $809.6 million in sales taxes next year is more conservative than projections have been in past budgets. But it said the county failed to take into account the phasing out of a state law that allows the county to collect sales taxes on receipts from the transmission and distribution of natural gas or electricity.
Because of that law, the county is expected to lose $2.6 million this year. That number would rise to a loss of $28.7 million in 2004, the report says.
The state board said that because of uncertainties surrounding Mr. Gulotta's proposals for the next four years, big budget gaps could develop: $81.7 million in 2001; $138.3 million in 2002; $275.2 million in 2003; and $379.6 million in 2004.
The county has provided slim details about new revenues or spending cuts in the future, the report said. "The multi-year plan, as proposed by the county executive, is unacceptable because it does not contain sufficient information to allow us to determine whether budgetary balance is likely to be achieved" between now and 2004, the report said.
In next year's budget, the report said, Mr. Gulotta has underestimated the county's borrowing costs by $11 million and the cost of overtime at the county jail by $2 million. The county, it said, also failed to budget $1.7 million in costs for the state board's own administration.
Mr. Gulotta pointed out that the $81.7 million the state board questioned in his 2001 plan represented just 3.7 percent of the overall $2.2 billion budget. Ms. Jacobs said many of the items the board questioned -- like a tax increase -- were less in doubt than the report indicated.
When asked if a state takeover could still be avoided, Mr. Gulotta said, "If everyone works together, which is what we have been saying from Day 1, absolutely."
But Mr. Schmitt, the Republican minority leader, said that the $81.7 million was a "scary" figure.
"It is like Halloween is coming early," he said. "Stay tuned; it will all be over one way or another by Oct. 15 or 16."
Just one question remains, Mr. Schmitt said: "Up or down." Success, or a state takeover.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Judith A. Jacobs of the Nassau County Legislature and County Executive Thomas S. Gulotta, studying a report on the county budget. (Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COUNTY LEGISLATURE (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNTY LEGISLATURE (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASSAU COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING COUNTIES (94%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (93%); BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PROPERTY TAX (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: BAKER, AL; GULOTTA, THOMAS S (COUNTY EXEC) THOMAS S GULOTTA (94%); FRANK G ZARB (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000



76 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1779 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE POLL;
CANDIDATES GIVEN HIGH MARKS IN POLL ON FITNESS TO LEAD

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE with JANET ELDER 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Oct. 2

 BODY:
On the eve of the first presidential debate here, most Americans say Gov. George W. Bush and Vice President Al Gore are strong leaders, but they consider Mr. Gore far more prepared for the White House and better qualified to deal with world leaders and members of both parties in Congress, the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll shows.
The survey found that as voters start to form detailed impressions of the candidates, even those who say they intend to back Mr. Bush express reservations about his preparedness. 
 But when voters are asked to assess each man on the broader question of his potential to be "an effective president," the differences largely vanish; both men receive high marks on the question.
The lingering questions about Mr. Bush's preparedness do not seem to have affected his overall standing in the head-to-head competition as reflected in the poll. Not since 1960 has a presidential contest been this close on the eve of a first debate.
Still, Mr. Bush, the Texas governor, has been struggling with the issue of his readiness to be president since the campaign began, and it is a matter that his advisers say he will try to put to rest in the first of three encounters with Mr. Gore. The first debate will be on Tuesday night at 9 Eastern time at the Boston campus of the University of Massachusetts.
Taken as a whole, the survey had much encouraging news for Mr. Gore and very little for Mr. Bush. Beyond the findings about Mr. Bush's preparedness, the poll found that the governor's personal popularity has eroded slightly as Mr. Gore's has continued to improve.
A majority of Americans say they will tune in to the debate. In addition to seeing where the two candidates stand on the issues, the poll's respondents say they will be looking to determine whether the nominees seem ready to handle the responsibilities of being president.
The race is so competitive, the survey found, that the difference in support between Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush is statistically insignificant. That said, no matter how the support is defined -- whether in terms of voters who have made up their minds or voters who are only now leaning toward one candidate but are still undecided -- Mr. Gore usually emerges a few points ahead.
In a four-way contest, Mr. Gore was backed by 45 percent of registered voters, Mr. Bush by 39 percent, and Patrick J. Buchanan and Ralph Nader were each below 5 percent. When voters' awareness of the race and their past voting are taken into account, Mr. Gore draws 45 percent and Mr. Bush 41 percent. If the possibility of a low turnout is added to the mix, Mr. Gore's advantage would be even more insignificant: one percentage point.
The state of the contest is all the more unpredictable because voters do not seem whole-heartedly loyal to their favored candidate. More than 4 of 10 Bush or Gore supporters said they were not enthusiastic about their candidate -- and have some misgivings about voting for him.
The nationwide telephone survey of 1,131 registered voters was taken Sept. 27 to Oct. 1. It has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
The most striking finding in the survey is the extent to which voters have reservations about Mr. Bush's preparedness. Their concerns may reflect their knowledge that Mr. Gore has served as vice president for eight years and, before that, was in the House and Senate for 16 years. By contrast, Mr. Bush did not hold public office until he was elected governor of Texas in 1994.
Lynn Eagleeye, a poll respondent from Bay Village, Ohio, said in a follow-up interview today that she was an independent but leaning toward Mr. Gore. "Gore has had more experience in the arena, but I think they would both make good presidents," said Mrs. Eagleeye, 57, a real estate agent. "Experience comes with the job and comes with time. It's not just the president running the country, it's his team of advisers. I liked the job Bush's father did with foreign policy, and I think George W. has a good adviser in that area."
Saying the debate could sway her opinion, she added, "Coolness under fire is one thing I'll be looking at."
But others, especially Republicans, were not daunted by Mr. Gore's longer record of public service. "Even though Gore has been vice president, I don't feel like he's done a lot," said Wanda Stucky, 63, a homemaker in Bolivar, Ohio. "I liked Bush's father and I think some of that ability and knowledge has rubbed off on him. Gore just does not impress me as a leader."
Thomas Reynolds, 64, a repairman from Somerset, Ky., said he was a Republican but was still torn between the candidates. "Bush is probably not as prepared for the presidency as Gore," Mr. Reynolds said, "but I think he could be an effective president. You learn as you go, and Bush as the experience of governing Texas."
Still, in the poll, many voters gave Mr. Gore far higher marks for being ready to take over.
When respondents were asked if each candidate had prepared himself well enough for the presidency or needed more time to do more, Mr. Gore was seen by 71 percent of voters as having prepared himself well enough, while 24 percent said he needed to do more. But Mr. Bush was seen as well prepared by just under half, 49 percent, while 43 percent of voters said he needed to prepare more.
On their capacity to negotiate with world leaders, 68 percent said Mr. Gore could do that effectively, while 48 percent said that of Mr. Bush.
Mr. Gore was also viewed as more capable of dealing with Congress. Seventy-one percent of registered voters said Mr. Gore had the skills needed to work with both Democrats and Republicans in Congress; 59 percent said the same of Mr. Bush.
Yet for all the concerns about Mr. Bush's lack of preparedness, voters thought that he had the potential to be an able leader. Of the poll respondents who favor Mr. Gore, for example, only 20 percent said Mr. Bush was adequately prepared for the presidency. Still, 40 percent of Gore backers said Mr. Bush would make an effective leader.
Despite the closeness of the race, there were underlying trends that appear to favor Mr. Gore. For the first time, the balance between Mr. Bush's favorable and unfavorable ratings -- long one of his most potent advantages -- has begun to erode while Mr. Gore's has improved markedly.
Mr. Bush is seen favorably by 43 percent of voters and unfavorably by 30 percent, a positive balance of 13 points. But just before the national convention, Mr. Bush was seen favorably by 44 percent and unfavorably by 26 percent, a positive balance of 18 points.
In the latest poll, Mr. Gore is seen favorably by 49 percent of voters and unfavorably by 28 percent, a positive balance of 21 points. Before the conventions, Mr. Gore was seen favorably by 36 percent of voters and unfavorably by 35 percent, essentially a draw.
Yet for all his gains in likability, Mr. Gore said he intended to emphasize issue differences in the debate, a reflection, perhaps, of the fact that on most issues, the poll found that Americans still side with Democrats. Voters say they like the direction the country has been moving and are not eager to change course. Their concerns continue to be health care, including Medicare, followed by education, Social Security and taxes.
Mr. Gore holds sway with voters on health care, prescription drugs and caring about the average American, while Mr. Bush does better on strengthening the military and lowering taxes.
A plurality of voters said the high price of heating oil affected them personally. But while the topic has consumed a significant amount of energy on the campaign trail, neither Mr. Bush nor Mr. Gore was given an advantage by voters who were asked which one could bring about lower prices.
In a finding that may be cause for concern among Republican candidates, the poll found that Mr. Bush's candidacy has not helped the overall image of his party. Forty-nine percent of voters say they hold a favorable view of the Republicans, while 44 percent hold an unfavorable view. By contrast, 58 percent of voters say they hold a favorable view of the Democratic Party, while 36 percent hold an unfavorable view.
But on one important issue -- education -- Mr. Bush may have helped his party with his nonstop appearances at schools. As recently as July, voters were more likely to view the Democrats as better able than the Republicans to improve education, by a margin of 45 to 33, a 12-point Democratic advantage. In the current poll, that gap has closed to seven points.
For all the back and forth over which candidate is most prepared, Sherwood Marx, 74, a retired electrical company supervisor, argued that neither is quite ready.
"Bush hasn't been around that long in public office," said Mr. Marx, who lives in Tacoma, Wash., "and Gore has been playing second fiddle to Clinton. Neither knows that much."
 
How the Poll Was Taken
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Wednesday through Sunday with 1,462 adults throughout the United States. Of these, 1,131 said they were registered to vote.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges across the country.
Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results have been weighted to take into account household size and number of telephone lines into the residence, and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, age and education.
Some findings regarding voting are additionally weighted in terms of an overall "probable electorate," which uses responses to questions dealing with voting history, attention to the campaign and likelihood of voting in 2000 as a measure of the probability of respondents' turning out in November. The method assumes approximately 50 percent turnout in November.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
For smaller sub-groups, the margin of sampling error is larger.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variations in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Charts: "Voters Say Gore And Bush Qualified"
Voters who say candidate has the ability to be an effective president
 
BUSH -- 67%
GORE -- 73%
 
Voters who say candidate has prepared himself well enough for the job of president
 
BUSH -- 49%
GORE -- 71%
 
(Source: New York Times/CBS News poll)(pg. A1)
 
"Voters on the Candidates"
MUTUAL STRENGTHS
Voters who say candidate . . .
 
Is likely to make sure the country's economy remains strong
BUSH -- 66%
GORE -- 75%
DIFFERENCE -- 9%
 
Has strong qualities of leadership
BUSH -- 67
GORE -- 61
DIFFERENCE -- 6
 
BUSH DISTINCTIONS
Voters who say candidate . . .
 
Would make U.S. defenses stronger
BUSH -- 53
GORE -- 18
DIFFERENCE -- 35
 
Is likely to reduce taxes
BUSH -- 43
GORE -- 27
DIFFERENCE -- 16
 
GORE DISTINCTIONS
Voters who say candidate . . .
 
Is likely to make health care affordable for everyone
BUSH -- 35
GORE -- 56
DIFFERENCE -- 21
 
Has the skills needed to negotiate effectively with world leaders
BUSH -- 48
GORE -- 68
DIFFERENCE -- 20
 
Cares about the needs and problems of people like yourself
BUSH -- 53
GORE -- 66
DIFFERENCE -- 13
 
MUTUAL WEAKNESSES
Voters who say candidate . . .
 
Is likely to keep oil prices down
BUSH -- 40
GORE -- 41
DIFFERENCE -- 1
 
Is likely to help protect people's privacy when it comes to things like financial and medical records
BUSH -- 49
GORE -- 51
DIFFERENCE -- 2
 
Based on nationwide telephone interviews conducted Sept. 27-Oct. 1 with 1,131 registered voters. (pg. A22)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; DEBATING; ELECTION ISSUES POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; ELDER, JANET; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RALPH NADER (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000



77 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1769 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE TECHNOLOGY FACTOR;
In Silicon Valley, Candidates Seek Both Money and 'Cool'

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE 

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, Calif.

 BODY:
By many political calculations, Silicon Valley should be Al Gore country. After all, the vice president has championed high-technology issues, and eight years of a strong economy has created an unimaginable level of wealth here. Moreover, this academic region is a magnet for young college graduates who often gravitate to Democrats.
While Mr. Gore leads the race in California, Gov. George W. Bush is giving him a run for his money in Silicon Valley. Mr. Bush is outpacing the vice president in contributions here by a 2-to-1 margin, raising $2.1 million to Mr. Gore's $1 million, while remaining neck and neck with him in soft-dollar contributions. And Mr. Bush's list of supporters in the computer-related industry is as gold-plated as Mr. Gore's. 
 This heated race represents a new twist on traditional politics. As Silicon Valley emerges as a political factor in the presidential race for the first time, both candidates are investing time and energy here not only to win votes and dollars, but to win something more intangible but equally valuable: being identified as a candidate of the future and being linked with the forward thinking of the high-technology world.
"Silicon Valley represents the crosscurrent of money and cool," said Gregory W. Slayton, chief executive of ClickAction Inc., an Internet marketing firm, and chairman of Silicon Valley Bush-2000. "And that's where all politicians want to be."
And they are. Late last month, for instance, Mr. Bush came to Silicon Valley to campaign at a local school and attend a $1 million fund-raiser at the home of Carol A. Bartz, chief executive of Autodesk Inc., a software company.
A week earlier, Mr. Gore was here for a $3 million fund-raiser at the house in Atherton of Eric Schmidt, chairman and chief executive of Novell Inc. Elton John flew in from London to entertain the 300 guests.
The same day Mr. Gore was here, an advertisement in a local newspaper, The San Jose Mercury News, listed 300 high-technology executives backing Mr. Bush, including officials at Cisco Systems, Dell Computer, Texas Instruments, Microsoft, Intel -- many of whom also participated in a telephone conference call that day with reporters to extol Mr. Bush.
What is remarkable about this flurry of activity is that it comes as polls show Mr. Gore comfortably ahead of Mr. Bush in California -- especially in the San Francisco area, including Silicon Valley.
A poll in mid-September by the nonpartisan Public Policy Institute of California had Mr. Gore leading by eight percentage points. It also showed Mr. Gore with 57 percent in the Bay Area, which combines heavily Democratic San Francisco and more-divided Silicon Valley, to Mr. Bush's 28 percent.
With numbers as lopsided as this, conventional wisdom would dictate that neither candidates should waste time here. But conventional wisdom does not apply in Silicon Valley, which many see as a harbinger of American politics -- more about issues than parties and more sensitive to the endorsements of corporate "opinion makers" than the words of ward bosses and party leaders.
Even more importantly, Silicon Valley is seen as the spot where trends begin.
"We don't have to have 100 percent of the high-tech leaders," said Joe Andrew, chairman of the Democratic National Committee. "This is not a numbers game, but an image game. High-tech leaders are like celebrities. They are validators, and that validation is important."
The Bush camp agreed. "Everyone wants to associate with the future," said Margita Thompson, the Bush campaign's adviser on high technology. "Silicon Valley is a way of thinking, a way of challenging things and a forward-looking mentality. Governor Bush wants to capture that."
While this effort may not be evident from Mr. Bush's national advertising, it is taking place in a more subtle effort. The Bush campaign set up a office in Redwood City, Calif., and has an e-mail campaign directed at high-technology leaders, especially chief executives.
Many trace the area's new political involvement to the government's case against the Microsoft Corporation. But others say the political wake-up call here really came in 1996, when California voters took up Proposition 211, a ballot initiative that would have made it easier to bring class-action lawsuits against corporations -- especially Internet companies, whose share prices can fluctuate wildly, causing angry shareholders to sue.
Silicon Valley companies and executives raised $40 million to defeat the measure, and later founded TechNet, a bipartisan political action committee made up of more 190 executives. The 2000 election is the first to feel the impact: Silicon Valley has raised $22.1 million for the current campaign, giving $11.9 million to Republicans and $10 million to Democrats, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington nonprofit group that monitors campaign finance.
These donations put the high technology industry on par with such other big donors as the energy, insurance, pharmaceutical and banking industries. But this money, remarkably, came on the scene almost overnight and is more than double the $9 million the industry gave in 1996 and in 1998.
While Mr. Bush leads in direct donations, overall donations to both parties and candidates -- soft and hard dollars -- split evenly in the Bay Area. San Jose and San Francisco residents contributed $19.3 million overall, giving $10.5 million to Democrats and $8.6 million to Republicans. Moreover, executives of computer-related companies are writing six-digit campaign checks, and one Zip code alone, 94027 in Atherton, accounted for $2.1 million, $1 million to Republicans, $877,025 to Democrats and the rest to political action committees.
"For years we stuck our head in the sand," said Kim Polese, chairwoman of Marimba, a software company, and a Gore supporter. "But we've changed. People in the Valley have clicked into politics."
As the valley clicks into politics, it is doing so consistent with its highly competitive culture.
Silicon Valley is the bastion of fierce entrepreneurship -- a place where thousands of entrepreneurs have escaped the rigidities of big corporations and struck out alone. And this creates opportunities for Mr. Bush and obstacles for Mr. Gore.
For all of his well-known forays into Silicon Valley through the years, Mr. Gore is seen by Republican executives as being close to two institutions despised by Silicon Valley, unions and trial lawyers, and as being emblematic of the type of big government involvement in business the valley abhors. Mr. Gore's troubles contrast with the success President Clinton had attracting Silicon Valley Republicans in 1996.
"The underlying interest in Silicon Valley is in leaving business alone," said Tom Riley, president of WebState Inc., an online training company, and a Bush supporter.
"For the most part," Mr. Riley said, "the success of Silicon Valley has been because people are left on their own with a minimum of interference, red tape and bureaucracy. People here look at Gore and see a bureaucrat, a politician and someone from Washington."
Gore supporters disagreed. Silicon Valley's boom, they said, relied heavily on government investment, policies and on federal research grants that helped many of today's best-known corporate names.
They said Mr. Gore has a demonstrated record of backing issues important to Silicon Valley: From programs that helped to create Web browsers and the Internet to backing overhaul of the telecommunications industry, from supporting more government funds for education and research to aiding small businesses market new technologies.
"Silicon Valley has abandoned the myth of the lone entrepreneur in the garage able to change the world," said John Doerr, a chairman of TechNet and a partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, a venture capital firm.
"We live in a highly networked and connected global economy and public policy matters," Mr. Doerr said. "Al Gore is really a leader in understanding how government should engage with technology."
On paper, the candidates are pretty similar. Both support free trade, increased funding for basic research, efforts to improve education, expanding the H1-B visa program to allow more high-tech foreign workers to emigrate here and Internet privacy protections.
But in offices and coffee cafes here, when talk turns to presidential politics, it is rarely about such specifics but rather about government -- friend or foe. The Bush campaign's involvement in this talk came from early groundwork by executives here who felt Mr. Gore was getting too much attention and made pilgrimages to Austin, Tex.
"There was a tremendous amount of frustration among Republicans here that all the gold and glory was going to the Democrats and the area was being portrayed as locked up for Gore," said Lezlee Westine, head of TechNet's Republican politics section. As early as 1999, Ms. Westine took executives to Austin, set up a Bush advisory board on technology and put advertisements in California newspapers urging him to run.
It didn't hurt, of course, that Texas has it's own high-tech area in Austin. "Every semiconductor company has an operation in Texas," said Floyd Kvamme, also a partner at the venture capital firm of Kleiner Perkins.
One refrain repeated by Bush supporters is government policies had little to do with eight years of economic well-being -- or even the creation of Silicon Valley. "I've worked in the valley since 1963," Mr. Kvamme said, "and I don't think government ever had a role in it."
James L. Barksdale, former president and chief executive of Netscape Communications and now head of Barksdale Group agreed. "One of the main drivers of the new economy has been the enormous explosion of tech companies," he said. "I don't know that the administration had any role in the good run in the economy."
To Democrats and Gore supporters, this is all collective amnesia.
Much of Silicon Valley's growth resulted from defense spending that paid for the development of computers, the semiconductor, high-performance transistors, the microprocessor, high-performance networks, the mouse and the Internet and which provided research dollars that turned Stanford University into a magnet.
"It's easy to get caught up with being successful here," said Justin Kitch, chief executive of Homestead.com, an Internet content company, and Gore backer. "It's hard to step back and say, 'Why am I so lucky?' Many don't want to attribute their success to any external factors. That's part of being an entrepreneur."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "LEDGER: Silicon Valley's Emerging Influence"
As many entrepreneurs of the high-technology industry turn their focus toward politics, Silicon Valley is emerging as a significant force in this year's presidential race. Here is a look at contributions from computer-related companies nationwide:
 
Contributions* Figures in millions
 
Democrat
1996+ -- 4.2
1998+ -- 4.1
2000+ -- 11.9
 
Republican
1996+ -- 4.6
1998+ -- 5.3
2000+ -- 10.0
 
Major Contributors
 
Marc Andreessen, Chairman, Loudcloud
Democrat -- $354,500
Republican -- $25,000
 
John T. Chambers, CEO, Cisco Systems
Democrat -- 43,500
Republican -- 332,500
 
David J. Shimmon, Chairman, Kinetics Group
Democrat -- 351,000
Republican -- None
 
Thomas & Barbara Stephenson, Sequoia Capital
Democrat -- None
Republican -- 328,200
 
John Doerr, Venture Capitalist, Kleiner Perkins
Democrat -- 246,000
Republican -- 1,000
 
David Hayden, Founder, Critical Path
Democrat -- 158,000
Republican -- None
 
Howard M. Leach, Leach Capital Corp.
Democrat -- None
Republican -- 142,259
 
George Marcus, Chariman, Marcus & Millichap
Democrat -- 136,000
Republican -- None
 
Roger McNamee, Founder, Integral Capital Partners
Democrat -- 131,244
Republican -- None
 
Eric Schmidt, CEO, Novell
Democrat -- 118,600
Republican -- 6,000
 
William R. Hambrecht, Founder, WR Hambrecht & Co.
Democrat -- 118,500
Republican -- 1,000
 
*Includes individual contributions to candidates and soft dollar donations to the parties.
+Figures for 1996 and 1998 are for the two-year election cycle, and 2000 is through August.
 
(Source: Center for Responsive Politics)(pg. A24)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ADSK (NASDAQ) (81%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); TXN (NASDAQ) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (81%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (81%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (81%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (81%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (54%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NOVELL INC (81%); AUTODESK INC (81%); CLICKACTION INC (67%); INTEL CORP (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; SILICON VALLEY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; FINANCES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PUBLIC OPINION US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (65%); CONFERENCE CALLS (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); WAYNE, LESLIE AL GORE (91%); ERIC E SCHMIDT (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); L JOHN DOERR (78%); JOHN T CHAMBERS (69%); ELTON JOHN (64%); MARC ANDREESSEN (58%); CAROL BARTZ (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000



78 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 2128 words

HEADLINE: Debate Rises Over a Quick(er) Climate Fix

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
A sharp new debate has sprung up among atmospheric scientists over where to aim efforts to stave off the prospect of global warming from the buildup of heat-trapping greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Some say the main target should be carbon dioxide, the most common greenhouse gas, while others say the most practical solution is to focus first on less common, but more powerful, substances possibly influencing climate, like methane, ozone and soot.
The debate comes just as negotiators from more than 150 countries are preparing to head to The Hague next month to put flesh on the bones of the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, a treaty outlining commitments by industrialized countries to reduce their greenhouse emissions and help poor countries avoid new emissions as their economies grow. 
 The argument for attacking the less common greenhouse ingredients is mainly based on the idea that these substances contribute to harmful air pollution as well as climate change -- and so an easier case can be made to policy makers and the public to clean them up.
They are also relatively easy to attack with existing or developing technologies, whereas carbon dioxide can still generally be reduced only by burning less fuel.
Proponents of this strategy, most notably Dr. James E. Hansen, an influential NASA climate expert, say that cutting carbon dioxide, at least in the short term, is a far more daunting task because it is a basic byproduct of burning coal and oil. In other words it is a basic byproduct of almost every aspect of modern life.
But there are problems with focusing on other heat-trapping substances, as well, other scientists say. Soot and the other greenhouse gases, they argue, constitute an extraordinarily complex brew whose influence on climate and interactions with each other and with clouds and other atmospheric ingredients are still poorly understood.
"When you add in their chemical interactions, most scientists' eyes glaze over, it's so complicated," said Dr. Michael Oppenheimer, an atmospheric chemist who is chief scientist of Environmental Defense, a private conservation group.
The debate was spurred last August, when Dr. Hansen and a team of his colleagues at NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies, which is based in Manhattan, published "Global Warming in the 21st Century: An Alternative Scenario," in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
In the paper, they said that deep cuts in carbon dioxide emissions were probably impossible in the short run, while the other gases and soot were already targets because of their contribution to old-fashioned pollution. In its conclusion, the team used a word rarely found in studies of global warming: "optimistic."
The analysis has since been criticized by some longtime colleagues of Dr. Hansen and embraced by industry groups and elected officials who have long voiced doubt about the science behind climate change and the need for big cuts in fossil fuel use.
Just last Thursday, for example, Dr. Hansen's findings were repeatedly cited by Republican senators holding a hearing questioning the need for the Kyoto Protocol, which has been signed by more than 100 countries but has yet to be ratified by any industrial powers. Many of the treaty's provisions focus on cutting carbon dioxide.
Dr. Hansen's critics, including many influential experts on the atmosphere and climate, say that emissions of all of the gases should be curtailed wherever this is possible and not too expensive but that cutting carbon dioxide must still be a top priority.
For his part, Dr. Hansen said that both sides in the debate had largely either misrepresented or misinterpreted his study. He said the fundamental goal was simply to find the most efficient -- and politically and economically palatable -- way to cleanse the atmosphere of human effluents that have the biggest impact on climate.
He said he still hoped that once the dust settled, policy makers from all parts of the spectrum might find merit in the proposal.
"I think it may be possible to get conservatives and liberals to agree on common-sense steps that slow down the climate experiment," Dr. Hansen said.
The "climate experiment" to which he referred is a substantial rise in the amount of greenhouse gases released into the air by human activities since the start of the Industrial Revolution. So far, the insulating effect of these gases is the equivalent of turning on two one-watt Christmas tree light bulbs over each square yard of the earth's surface.
That does not seem like much additional energy, Dr. Hansen said, but as a comparison he and others have calculated that the extra wattage accounting for the difference between the last ice age and current equable conditions is 6 to 9 watts per square yard.
If greenhouse gas concentrations continue to rise, the human-caused increase in energy bathing the surface could exceed four watts per square yard, a rise that begins to approach the change from the last ice age until now. That is bound to jog climate, Dr. Hansen said.
Dr. Hansen, besides being a respected climate scientist, is an inveterate pot stirrer who in the sweltering summer of 1988 told a Senate committee "it is time to stop waffling" about climate change, adding that signs had emerged that humans were causing some of the global warming measured in the 20th century.
His new analysis is clearly intended to provoke his peers to re-examine assumptions made over the last 10 years, particularly by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a body of hundreds of scientists working together under the auspices of the United Nations to assess global warming and possible responses. Their first update in five years is due in January.
Most atmospheric scientists have long recognized that more than a dozen greenhouse gases and various kinds of particles emitted by combustion and industry affect the flow of energy to and from the earth. (Most particles reflect sunlight like a parasol, cooling the planet; carbon soot tends to absorb energy and heat up.)
But for the last decade, carbon dioxide has been the main target of climate experts and diplomats trying to stabilize climate. Its concentration in the atmosphere has risen by a third from levels seen before the Industrial Revolution; once added to the air, it takes many decades to disappear; and levels could double from pre-industrial amounts by the end of the new century, scientists project. Also important, it is relatively easy to measure the emissions and their sources and "sinks," and processes that remove them from the air are fairly well understood.
But Dr. Hansen noted that carbon dioxide emissions are not continuing their relentless climb at anywhere near the pace set in the last century, as fuels are used more efficiently and dirty ones, like coal, are supplanted by cleaner ones, like natural gas.
Rather than seeking relatively costly additional cuts in carbon dioxide now, he said, the best return on an environmental investment in the short term would be to look at the other greenhouse culprits on his list. Then, later in the new century, when technologies have matured that offer sources of energy without new streams of carbon dioxide, the emphasis can shift back to that gas.
Here is his thinking on the best targets for action now.
First there is black carbon -- microscopic soot particles released from inefficient diesel engines, unfiltered power plants or burning forests. These tiny particles, besides harming lungs, absorb heat and also -- like other particles in the air -- form seeds for cloud droplets. They tend to make clouds darker, Dr. Hansen says, reducing clouds' tendency to reflect sunlight and make the earth's surface cooler.
He said that if continuing efforts to reduce conventional pollution from fossil-fuel burning spread from wealthy countries to developing countries, the amount of this heat-trapping substance in the air would quickly drop.
Methane is on most lists of priorities for reducing the greenhouse effect, and Dr. Hansen said it had, if anything, been underplayed as an important target. Methane comes both from natural sources like bogs and from a host of human sources, including coal mines, leaking pipelines, landfills, belching cattle and rice paddies.
Dr. Hansen's study concluded that efforts to shift to rice-farming methods where fields are drained more frequently could cut releases. Also, his team pointed to Australian research showing that changing feeding patterns or mixing certain anti-gas additives in feed for tropical cattle cut by 40 percent their release of this gas without interfering with growth. With two billion cows, sheep, and goats belching away -- half of them in the tropics -- there is plenty of potential to cut into the greenhouse effect, he and supporters say.
Finally, the Goddard analysis emphasizes the importance of reducing ozone, an evanescent gas that is not on the list of greenhouse gases considered under the Kyoto Protocol because it is not directly produced by human activities.
Ozone, a poisonous molecule consisting of three oxygen atoms, is continually formed and destroyed when sunlight hits air, particularly when that air is laden with nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons, or other emissions from burning fuels or forests. This is the lung-searing brew called smog.
Separately, ozone is formed high in the stratosphere, where it shields the planet from harmful radiation. Wherever it exists, it traps heat.
Dr. Hansen said that as with carbon soot, as China, Mexico and other industrializing countries start to enact pollution controls to cut smog, they will also indirectly be lessening their greenhouse impact.
But other scientists say the situation is not that clear-cut. One reason ozone has largely been left out of greenhouse equations so far is that its relationships with other greenhouse gases and other compounds in the air are almost impossibly complex.
For example, extremely reactive hydroxyl radicals, OH, which are created as ozone encounters other compounds, destroy methane molecules. In essence, one greenhouse gas eats the other.
"OH is the detergent of the atmosphere, scrubbing everything," said Dr. Monika Mayer, a research scientist in the climate program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. She published a study last month in The Journal of Geophysical Research -- Atmospheres in which she and several colleagues concluded that future trends for ozone and methane would largely cancel each other out.
Generally, she said, models show that although ozone should increase in cities, on average around the globe levels should drop, and this will allow methane to persist longer in the air because there will be fewer hydroxyl radicals there to destroy it.
The effects of all of this on climate, she concluded in the paper, are likely to be a wash.
Dr. Ralph J. Cicerone, an atmospheric scientist and chancellor of the University of California at Irvine, said he agreed with Dr. Hansen that the complexity of chemistry in the atmosphere should not deter efforts to cut ozone, methane and other substances that contribute both to pollution and climate problems.
He pointed to recent work showing that although levels of ozone and nitrogen oxides, which help create ozone, have been dropping over the United States and western Europe, they are relentlessly rising elsewhere.
One study, Dr. Cicerone said, showed that nitrogen oxide concentrations in China, South Korea, Taiwan and Japan rose 60 percent from 1997 to 1998. There is plenty of concrete benefit to be gained, with little of the potential pain that might come from putting the same effort into reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
But other scientists fear that any shift away from reducing burning of coal and oil would only impede long-term progress toward limiting the human influence on climate.
"The most important thing is to stabilize all these emissions," said Dr. Thomas P. Ackerman, chief scientist in the Energy Department's atmospheric radiation measurement program in Richland, Wash. "And there's no way you're going to do that without attacking the fossil-fuel problem. We're a society that likes to have simple solutions, but there are no easy answers here."
For his part, Dr. Hansen seems satisfied simply to have nudged the climate debate toward considering partial, common-sense solutions that he feels have been neglected.
He added that one way to spur interest would be to illustrate the other harmful qualities of the greenhouse ingredients on his list up close and personal.
Maybe, he said, it would make sense to "lock people in a room with a good bit of ozone and black carbon in the air until they come up with some positive ideas."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 4, 2000, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Science Times yesterday about efforts to stave off global warming misstated the period in which emissions of nitrogen oxides from four Asian countries rose 60 percent. It was 1987 to 1998, not 1997 to 1998.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cutting emissions of methane, a greenhouse gas that comes partly from wet rice paddies and belching cattle, may be easier than cutting carbon dioxide, emitted by power plants and cars. (David Jennings for The New York Times); (Jim Wilson/The New York Times); (Agence France-Presse)(pg. F5); (Steve Duenes and Juan Velasco/The New York Times)(pg. F1)
 
Chart: "Lesser Known Greenhouse Players in the Spotlight"
Carbon dioxide is not the only contributor to the greenhouse effect. Other gases and particles exist in relatively small atmospheric concentrations but are coming under closer scrutiny because they are potent heat trappers.
 
VOLUME OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, WEIGHTED ACCORDING TO GLOBAL WARMING POTENTIAL OVER 100 YEARS.
 
CO2 (Carbon Dioxide): 72.7%
CH4 (Methane): 16.6
N2O (Nitrous Oxide): 7.6
CFC's, HFC's, PFC's: 2.7
SF6 (Sulfur Hexafluoride): 0.4
Black Carbon Soot (Not a gas)
 
SOURCES OF GREENHOUSE GASES
 
RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL -- Heating and cooling
INDUSTRY -- Steel mills, aluminum smelters, cement plants, petroleum refineries, etc.
TRANSPORTATION -- Fuel burning
ENERGY PRODUCTION -- Oil and gas production
 
ENERGY -- Natural gas and oil production, coal mining
WASTE MANAGEMENT -- Decomposition of wastes in landfills
AGRICULTURE -- Digestive processes of ruminant livestock, manure decomposition, rice cultivation
 
AGRICULTURE -- Nitrogen fertilizers, nitrogen-fixing crops, livestock manure, waste management and runoff
 
ENERGY PRODUCTION-- Emissions from fossil fuel use INDUSTRY
Chemical manufacturing and wastewater treatment process
 
CFC's -- Aerosol cans, packaging material, refrigerants
HFC's -- Refrigeration, fire protection
PFC's -- Emissions from the manufacture of semiconductors and from aluminum smelting
 
INDUSTRY -- Electrical equipment insulation, magnesium production and medical treatments like asthma inhalers
 
Incomplete combustion of fossil fuels and vegetation fires
 
Global Warming Potential
G.W.P. is a measure of the relative radiative effects of various greenhouse gases. Values are the ratio of global warming from one unit mass of a gas to that of one unit mass of carbon dioxide over 100 years.
 
SULFUR HEXAFLUORIDE: 23,900
CFC-12: 8,100
CFC-11: 3,800
NITROUS OXIDE: 310
METHANE: 21
CO2: 1
 
+ Concentrations of CO2, CH4, N2O, CFC's and SF6 are based on atmospheric measurements for recent dates and are derived from ice core samples for historic values.
 
(Sources: Dr. James H. Butler, Dr. Pieter Tans, N.O.A.A., Climate Monitoring and Diagnostics Laboratory; Dr. Monika Mayer, Joint Program on the Science and Policy of Global Change, M.I.T.; Dr. James E. Hansen, Dr. Makiko Sato, NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies; Robert M. Cushman, Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center.)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NETHERLANDS (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAGUE (NETHERLANDS); NETHERLANDS (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (72%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; CARBON DIOXIDE; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; METHANE; OZONE; SOOT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS GREENHOUSE GASES (92%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); METHANE (90%); METEOROLOGY (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CHEMISTRY (78%); TRENDS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); NATURAL GAS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C JAMES E HANSEN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000



79 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE TAX PLANS;
Study Finds Winners and Losers For Bush and Gore Tax Proposals

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2

 BODY:
For months now, Gov. George W. Bush and Vice President Al Gore have been arguing on the campaign trail over whose tax plan would help particular families more. Often the candidates actually introduce families they say would do better under their plan.
Mr. Bush would give almost everyone a tax cut, while Mr. Gore would give tax relief only to low-income families and those with modest incomes and special expenses like children in day care or college or those with elderly dependents. 
 To help sort out the winners and losers, The New York Times asked Deloitte & Touche, the accounting firm, to examine how a dozen hypothetical individuals and families in various financial circumstances would fare under the competing plans.
The examination found that the Bush plan would be much more generous to the wealthy.
For example, a couple earning $450,000 would have their income taxes reduced by more than $12,000 a year. The Gore plan would be of no benefit to this family.
The Gore proposal would also give no tax relief to single people and childless couples, including retirees, even those with modest incomes who would save some taxes under the Bush plan.
On the other hand, Mr. Gore would give a much larger rebate than Mr. Bush to low-income single-parent families, like a mother with two or three children and an income of $29,000.
Since Mr. Bush's plan is twice as costly as Mr. Gore's -- slightly more than $1 trillion over 10 years, not counting his proposed repeal of the estate tax, as against about $500 billion for the Gore plan -- it is not surprising that Mr. Bush would give bigger tax savings to more families than Mr. Gore would.
That reflects their contrasting philosophies.
Mr. Gore would spend the difference on the national debt and on popular government programs like education, universal health insurance for children and prescription drug coverage for those on Medicare. Mr. Bush holds that the tax cut would allow people and not the government to decide the best way to allocate resources.
The main element in the Bush plan is an across-the-board reduction in tax rates that would be enjoyed by all taxpayers. In addition, he would double the existing tax credit for each child to $1,000 from $500, and for two-earner couples, he would give an additional deduction of up to $3,000.
The principal aspects of the Gore plan are an expansion of the existing earned-income tax credit for low-income workers, an increase in the maximum child-care credit to $2,400 from $960, an additional credit for after-school expenses for children 13 through 16, a higher standard deduction for working couples who do not itemize deductions, a $3,000 credit to families who care for ill or disabled relatives, a tax credit to people without employer-paid health insurance to help offset the cost of buying insurance and a tax break of up to $2,800 to help offset the cost of college tuition.
There were some unexpected findings.
For example, a couple with three children in day care and an income of $39,000 would be better off in terms of taxes under the Bush proposals. The doubling of the tax credit for children under the Bush plan would save more in taxes at that income level than Mr. Gore's child credit.
And a rather affluent self-employed couple with an income of $78,000 and a child in college would save more under the Gore plan because of Mr. Gore's tax break to help offset the cost of tuition.
The accountants at Deloitte & Touche assumed that the taxpayers studied with incomes of $39,000 and below would take the standard deduction and that those with higher incomes would itemize their deductions and take deductions typical at their income level. They also assumed that in families with two wage-earners, one earned 60 percent of the income and the other 40 percent.
All the income was assumed to come from wages, dividends and interest except in the case of the family with an income of $450,000. In that case, it was assumed that $50,000 came from long-term capital gains.
The Bush plan was treated as if it were fully in effect, although that would not be the case until 2006. The Gore plan would all go into effect at once.
The accountants did not count Mr. Gore's proposal to give a tax credit of up to $3,000 to taxpayers with incomes below $170,000 who pay more than half the cost of care of an elderly relative. The accountants decided that to include it would have skewed the results in a study that examined so few families.
But it is worth noting, for example, that under the Gore plan, the working couple in the study with an income of $78,000 would have had almost its entire tax liability eliminated if it had an ill grandparent living in the house.
For the purposes of the study, the accountants at Deloitte & Touche did not consider Mr. Bush's proposal to abolish the estate tax, since it would not affect anyone's annual income tax. Nor did they include proposals by both candidates for tax-free retirement and savings accounts.
The computer model used by the accountants in examining the Bush proposals did not make adjustments for the effect of the alternative minimum tax. This is a provision of the existing law originally intended to make sure wealthy people paid taxes even if they had large deductions and exemptions. Increasingly in recent years, taxpayers with more modest incomes and smaller deductions have found they owed additional taxes under the provision.
Mr. Bush's economic advisers have acknowledged that the alternative minimum tax would mean somewhat smaller tax savings under his plan than would otherwise be the case for many affluent taxpayers. There would be little if any effect on taxpayers under the Gore plan.
Citizens for Tax Justice, a labor-backed research organization, included the alternative minimum tax in its model and found that under the Bush plan, the tax savings would be reduced by 44 percent for a family earning $125,000, by 79 percent for a family with an income of $185,000 and by 41 percent for a family with an income of $400,000. The effect on most families with incomes below $80,000 would be inconsequential.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 4, 2000, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A chart yesterday showing the effect of the presidential candidates' tax plans on 12 hypothetical individuals and families misstated the taxes for one case -- a single parent with three children and an annual income of $29,000. That family would be due a rebate of $1,210 under current law, $2,218 under the Bush plan and $3,462 under the Gore plan; it would not owe those amounts.
The chart also labeled one case incorrectly. The family that would save $2,322 under the Bush plan and $1,038 under the Gore plan was a working couple with three children and an annual income of $39,000 -- not two children and an income of $39,000.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Tax Savings Under the Two Plans"
How much 12 hypothetical families in different financial circumstances would save under the Bush and Gore tax plans, and the proposals that would lead to those savings. In some cases, the savings are simply the result of one or two elements, like the lowering of tax rates; in other cases, they result from a complicated interrelationship among various elements.
 
Chart lists 12 hypothetical families in various different taxable categories and the amounts of money saved between Gore and Bush's plans.
 
*Includes a $1,170 deduction, for a tax savings of $176, for charitable donations for those who do not itemize deductions.
+Includes a $1,500 credit for health insurance.
 
(Source: Deloitte & Touche)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (83%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: DELOITTE & TOUCHE DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: DELOITTE & TOUCHE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); PARENTS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); STUDENT EXPENSES (76%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (76%); CHILD CARE (76%); MEDICARE (75%); AGING (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); SINGLE PARENTS (72%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (67%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (62%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E GEORGE W BUSH (94%); AL GORE (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000



80 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1877 words

HEADLINE: Hunted Man Is No Rockefeller, but Plays One in Hamptons, the Police Say

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER and CHARLIE LeDUFF 

 BODY:
He cut a wide swath through the Hamptons this summer. His name was sterling: Christopher Rockefeller. His pitch was gold: "I can double your money in a month." Women threw themselves at his feet; men threw cash.
But the longer he stayed, the less the details made sense. If he was heir to an American fortune, why did he speak with a French accent? He slouched, and slurped his soup. He wore tattoos. He sniffed at a glass of jug wine and praised its bouquet. He could not remember whether his Manhattan apartment was on 57th or 59th Street. Was it a Lear jet or a helicopter? An apartment or an oceanfront estate? 
 His schemes, the police say, were simple and always the same: stock deals, easy loans, dine and dash. His targets were from New York's anonymous moneyed class -- not the A-listers, but people of position and wealth, people who should have known better: stockbrokers, business owners, restaurateurs, Upper East Side socialites, landlords, real estate agents.
When he skipped bail in August, charged in East Hampton with impersonation and running out on his $19,000 bed-and-breakfast tab, Christopher Rocancourt left behind a trail of more than a dozen angry acquaintances who felt as confused as they did betrayed.
Now, a frustrated crew of pursuers, from the Federal Bureau of Investigation to the Los Angeles County district attorney's office to a New York private eye, are looking for Mr. Rocancourt, who they say has duped the rich on both coasts and abroad.
Some say Mr. Rocancourt (pronounced ROH-can-court) is nothing more than a common thief, a modern-day mountebank who used his Continental charms to pry nearly $900,000 from the hands of wealthy New Yorkers over the course of a single season. Others say he is a ruthless killer, one of the most dangerous criminals the public has never heard of.
But a complicated portrait of Mr. Rocancourt has emerged from interviews with those who thought they knew him best. By turns, he has been described as a bon vivant in love with the artful con and as a confused man searching his spiritual path. He could quote philosophers, calling Kierkegaard a messiah and Kant a crank, but also spent time reading trashy self-help books. He lived on other people's money, spending lavishly on friends, but was often miserable after nights out on the town.
He had an unimposing look -- short, slight and nervously intense -- but frequently traveled with beautiful women on his arm. He claimed he had been born to wealth, but once told a confidant that he was a doctor who considered it his job to "cure the rich of greed."
The authorities have been tracking Mr. Rocancourt, 33, on four continents for more than a decade. He is suspected of bilking the well-to-do out of millions in East Hampton, Beverly Hills, Miami, San Francisco and Hong Kong. Investigators say they have tied him to a diamond-smuggling ring in Zaire and a violent jewelry store robbery in Geneva. The police say they believe he shot the bodyguard of a dangerous drug dealer during a wild highway shootout in West Hollywood. They say he is often armed and always one step ahead of the law.
"He's a criminal, a fugitive on the run, and he needs to go to jail," said George Mueller, the supervising investigator for the Los Angeles district attorney's office, who said he became so familiar to Mr. Rocancourt that the suspect once taunted him by asking after his children and quoting his home address.
But when Mr. Rocancourt himself was asked last week, through an intermediary, to assess his chances of being caught, the intermediary quoted him as saying: "I'm in Venezuela. I'm doing fine. I'll be back."
It was already deep in barbecue season this summer, the police say, when Mr. Rocancourt started working on the residents of a four-bedroom home with a tennis court, swimming pool and acre plot a mile from the Atlantic Ocean in Water Mill, N.Y.
Tom Gregory, who owns the home, remembers when his housemate, Corine Eeltink, brought Mr. Rocancourt around, introducing him as Christopher Rockefeller.
"I thought, 'Of the Rockefeller Rockefellers?' " Mr. Gregory, a Manhattan stockbroker, recalled. "I knew that Corine gave massages to the rich and infamous out in the Hamptons, so I figured it was all right."
Mr. Gregory was having trouble paying for his home and was thinking of selling it to cut his losses. He said he told Mr. Rocancourt as much over a leisurely lunch and several games of tennis.
Though Mr. Rocancourt had to borrow a set of tennis whites and was clumsy on the court, Mr. Gregory said he never thought twice when his guest offered to lend him money to buy the house. He was American aristocracy. Every time his cell phone rang, his obsequious right-hand man, who called himself Joseph Dante, answered. It was always another Kennedy or English royal on the line.
The loan called for Mr. Rocancourt to wire $500,000 into Mr. Gregory's bank account in exchange for $50,000 cash up front. The deal was celebrated that night over Asian cuisine at the Hamptons restaurant Tsunami and continued in the V.I.P. room of the adjacent nightclub N/V, where Dom Perignon and top-shelf Cognac were poured with a generous hand.
In the end, Mr. Rocancourt never forwarded the $500,000, the authorities say, although he made off with Mr. Gregory's cash. He also took Ms. Eeltink for $14,000, she claims. He even left the $7,000 restaurant and nightclub tab unpaid.
The Rockefeller Foundation says there is no family member named Christopher. The French authorities say Christopher Rocancourt was born on July 16, 1967, in Honfleur, France, a tiny fishing village on the Normandy coast where local legend holds that buried treasure lies, forever out of reach, at the bottom of the murky bay.
From 1987 to 1992, Mr. Rocancourt was investigated in Paris in connection with crimes ranging from check-kiting to forgery while using the name Prince Galitzine Christo. The Swiss authorities say they believe he helped arrange the armed theft of gems worth more than 400,000 francs from a jewelry store in Geneva in 1991.
On June 9, 1993, Mr. Rocancourt was arrested by the F.B.I. in Las Vegas and extradited to Switzerland, where he was detained for a year. Unable to prove his involvement in the jewel theft, the Swiss authorities eventually banished him until Feb. 28, 2016.
It was a few years later, the authorities in Los Angeles say, that Mr. Rocancourt landed in Beverly Hills, taking an opulent suite in the Regent Beverly Wilshire Hotel. He cruised Sunset Strip in a gray Ferrari. The authorities say he passed himself off as the son of Dino De Laurentiis, the Italian movie mogul who produced "King Kong."
Mr. Rocancourt was often seen with his wife, a former Playboy playmate named Pia Reyes, with whom he has a son, Zeus. His entourage included a right-hand man and bodyguard, Ali Amghar, a former Algerian military officer known as Benny.
Mr. Amghar eventually wound up cooperating with the authorities. Among the schemes the Los Angeles district attorney's office says he revealed was a plan to smuggle diamonds out of a mine in Zaire.
Although the United States Customs Service investigated Mr. Rocancourt for more than a year, they could never make anything stick. "He's definitely good at what he does," said Special Agent Thomas Chumley, who ran the case. "He's smooth."
It took until Dec. 5, 1997, for Mr. Mueller of the Los Angeles district attorney's office to file a case against Mr. Rocancourt. He was not charged with smuggling, but with printing false passports with the help of two State Department employees and a woman who identified herself as the niece of the president of Gabon. He was freed on $100,000 bail in March 1998, and never returned to court.
Associates said Mr. Rocancourt spent the next two years gallivanting across the globe. He had no problem making money wherever he went. "You could drop him into Nigeria, and in three weeks he would own the place," one friend said.
Mr. Rocancourt managed to fly beneath the radar until this summer, when rumors began to circulate around the Hamptons about "Rockefeller." The jilted lovers and bounced checks and broken promises were catching up to him. Perhaps the most absurd encounter came at a Southampton soiree given by the Spanish painter Gines Serran-Pagan.
It was late July when Mr. Rocancourt, wearing someone else's tennis clothes, dropped by Mr. Serran-Pagan's gallery. Within 20 minutes, he had picked out six paintings priced altogether at more than a half-million dollars, waxing poetic about one particular piece, "Sunrise Over Quilin." All he needed, he said, was the number of Mr. Serran-Pagan's overseas bank account to make the deposit, according to Mr. Serran-Pagan.
The Spaniard demurred, but offered to discuss it over wine and was mortified to discover that his good stock was depleted. All he had left was some cheap red in a clay vessel.
"I was so embarrassed," Mr. Serran-Pagan said. "I said: 'Oh, my God! And a Rockefeller.' Well, he sniffed it once or twice and called it exquisite.
"That and the French accent. I knew he wasn't a Rockefeller."
Nonetheless, Mr. Rocancourt charmed the Spaniard, and over the next several weeks they met often to discuss Sartre and Nietzsche. Mr. Rocancourt spoke intelligently about the economic future of China. He knew the work of the Spanish painter Pissaro.
But cracks began to show in Mr. Rocancourt's mask. In the guest book, he signed two different addresses. He ate like a Neanderthal. "He had a street edge about him," the painter said. "I was suspicious, but I liked him. He was a dreamer, a surrealist like Dali."
Mr. Serran-Pagan wanted in on the masquerade. So he arranged a dinner party: the artist turning the tables on the con artist. The guest list included the daughter of Sony's president, two heiresses to a Greek shipping fortune and an international art dealer. In reality, the daughter of the Sony president was Natsuko Utsumi, a Japanese photographer. The art dealer was Peter Fazio, an electrician. And one of the shipping heiresses was Maria Eftimiades, a reporter for People, who wrote an article about the encounter for the Aug. 21 issue of New York magazine.
Mr. Rocancourt brought a buxom blonde and his assistant, Mr. Dante. By candlelight, Mr. Serran-Pagan said, he talked up some hot stock deals, until the Greek heiress snapped his photo. Mr. Dante shielded his boss as if a grenade had just been tossed onto the table. He pulled out a wad of $100 bills and tried in vain to buy the film.
The party broke up early in the morning, with Mr. Rocancourt promising to return to buy "Sunrise Over Quilin." He was arrested four days later.
"He hated the nouveau riche," Mr. Serran-Pagan said. "They were cave men, a dirty new species, and he derived pleasure by cheating them with their own greed."
When the police picked up Mr. Rocancourt on Aug. 2, they already suspected him of being a flimflam man, but they had yet to discover his true identity. Within hours, he was free on $45,000 bail. He left traveling on a passport with the name Fabien Ortuno.
"He was charming and fascinating and living his own movie out there on the edge," Mr. Serran-Pagan said. "He's committing suicide in the most beautiful way."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 5, 2000, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about Christopher Rocancourt, who is sought by authorities on suspicion of having bilked the well-to-do out of millions of dollars by impersonating a Rockefeller, misspelled the surname and misstated the nationality of a painter whose work he boasted of knowing. The painter was Camille Pissarro, not Pissaro. Although born in the Danish West Indies, Pissarro moved to France and was considered French; he was not Spanish.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The artist Gines Serran-Pagan put together a dinner party to turn the tables on Christopher Rocancourt. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B8); Christopher Rocancourt, above, who the authorities say has passed himself off as a Rockefeller. Left, a "Rockefeller" signature in a guest book at an art gallery in the Hamptons. (East Hampton Village Police Department)(pg. B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROCKEFELLER FAMILY FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROCKEFELLER FAMILY FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EAST HAMPTON (NY); LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FRAUDS AND SWINDLING WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); LARCENY & THEFT (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (69%); BAIL (67%); SECURITIES BROKERS (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (52%); 

PERSON: FEUER, ALAN; ROCANCOURT, CHRISTOPHER; LEDUFF, CHARLIE CHRISTOPHER ROCANCOURT (94%); CHRISTOPHER ROCKEFELLER (68%); TOM GREGORY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000



81 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION REVIEW;
Why What Goes Up Doesn't Fall Down

BYLINE: By JULIE SALAMON 

 BODY:
Small wonder the American Society of Civil Engineers has endorsed "Building Big," PBS's five-part documentary series about bridges, domes, skyscrapers, dams and tunnels. These terrific programs trumpet the scientific derring-do of the creators without ignoring their equally compelling quixotic foolhardiness. There's even more bravado and pathos here than in the just-finished Olympics.
While this series, which begins tonight, is largely a testament to engineering and architectural ingenuity and ambition, the producers don't ignore monumental disasters or the practical and ethical issues raised by our penchant for always building bigger. They dutifully observe that workers, not designers, generally paid the highest costs, and that for many people progress has meant displacement, like the ancient Nubian village that had to make way for the Aswan Dam in Egypt. 
 The many interviews include a conversation with the author and environmentalist Marc Reisner, who died in July. He declares: "I would say that next to nuclear power, dams are the biggest Faustian bargain that mankind has struck with nature. They have allowed us to settle places that couldn't be settled otherwise. They've created an outstanding amount of wealth, of economic wealth. On the other hand they've had terrible environmental impacts."
"Building Big" treats civilization's giant manmade structures ancient and modern as wellsprings of history, politics, religion and psychology. The programs are full of grand themes and exciting images of awesome edifices above and below ground, like the Hoover Dam, the Channel Tunnel connecting Britain and France, the Petronas Towers in Kuala Lumpur. Yet it shows equal respect for the nuts and bolts, as well as stone and iron and suspension cables.
In the third episode, about skyscrapers, we learn that by initially bolting together critical parts of the Citicorp Center instead of welding them, to save money, the builders put the 900-foot-tall structure in danger of being blown over by a strong storm. (Scarily, this was remedied at the architect's urging only after construction was completed.) On tonight's program, about bridges, we see the evolution from the stone arches built by the Romans to the thousands of pencil-thin wires wrapped together that hold up the Golden Gate Bridge.
Don't worry if you can't define "cantilever" or distinguish a pylon from a pier. The series has the perfect guide, David Macaulay, author of "The Way Things Work," whose calm voice and deceptively simple drawings can seduce vehement technophobes into minimal understanding of engineering concepts without insulting people who actually know about them. He has taught junior high and high school students and speaks slowly and carefully, as if he's still hoping someone is taking notes.
When he decides to illustrate something, Mr. Macaulay simply whips out a sketch pad; sometimes he explains while we watch cleverly animated diagrams. These visual aids help viewers begin to comprehend the competing tensions pushing and pulling on apparently inanimate objects and the ways that engineers compensate, so the structures they build won't collapse or blow apart. Looking at drawings of arches with stress arrows coming from all directions, you may find yourself identifying with a bridge or a tunnel.
Mr. Macaulay's lessons are easy to digest in part because he's usually giving them while perched by some exotic location, having traveled to four continents while making this series. This teacher may look a little fusty, with his bushy mustache and carefully tucked-in shirts, but he is a brave fellow, lugging his sketch pad wherever he thinks he has to go to clarify a point, even to a window-washing platform balanced outside a high floor of the World Trade Center.
In Episode 2, about domes, we learn that Hadrian, emperor of ancient Rome, rebuilt the Pantheon in the shape of a dome to prove Rome's transcendent authority with the gods. Similarly, in Texas in 1965, Judge Roy Hofheinz (former part owner of the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus) tried the same trick to establish Houston's elevation to the highest spheres of baseball by unveiling the Astrodome, the first indoor stadium. But the skylights in the Astrodome's roof blinded players when they looked up to catch fly balls, so the skylights were painted. With no natural light, the grass inside wilted, and soon Astroturf was born, for better or worse.
Most engineering disasters have far graver consequences, like the failure of Thomas Bouch to predict accurately how much wind the Tay Bridge could withstand. When it was built across the Firth of Tay north of Edinburgh in 1890, the bridge was the longest in the world. One night a storm blew it over as well as the train that was crossing at the time, killing about 75 people.
"Building Big" uses this accident to lure viewers into tonight's program, which also contains the saga of the Brooklyn Bridge, told in 1972 in "The Great Bridge," David McCullough's epic account of an engineering family's obsession. As recounted here with help from Mr. McCullough, the story of the Roeblings remains mesmerizing. In the 14-year course of overseeing the building of this exquisitely beautiful suspension bridge, the father died and the son was overcome with physical and mental illness, so his wife took over supervising fieldwork on the project.
The series is filled with stories like this, but the human tragedy is always linked to an engineering problem that had to be overcome. Washington Roebling, the son, contracted the bends, or caisson's disease, an unanticipated side effect of the otherwise ingenious system that allowed workers to dig down into the riverbed. The builders needed a hollow airtight structure that would keep the water out while they moved lower.
Borrowing an idea used in Europe on smaller projects, the Roeblings designed large caissons to be filled with compressed air to counterbalance the pressure of the river's water. As the caissons sank deeper and the air pressure inside them was increased, workers -- including Washington Roebling -- discovered that moving out of compressed air too quickly could lead to excruciating pain in the joints.
Success and failure are often difficult to distinguish from each other in these remarkable tales of hubris and passion, and concrete and girders. In the tunnels segment, last in the series, Mr. Macaulay tells about Marc Brunel, a 19th-century French inventor and engineer who found inspiration while in debtor's prison, where he passed the time by thinking about a helmet-headed shipworm. The worm was interesting from an engineering standpoint because it tunneled into wood and then secreted a substance that formed a rigid lining behind it, a useful tactic for burrowing into watery mud.
Brunel mimicked the worm with an invention he called the tunneling shield and won a contract to dig under the Thames in London. After 18 years and much disaster his tunnel was completed, and though the Brunel method was abandoned, it helped lead to the development of urban subway systems.
That's part of the point here, that one thing does lead to another, often in most unexpected ways. Gustave Eiffel's experiments with wrought iron transformed bridges and then skyscrapers. The arches under Roman aqueducts and bridges would show up later in domes and tunnels. While the mechanics of construction and natural disasters have become staples on cable television, "Building Big" has reached for something, well, bigger, and found surprising connections -- like the link between the Pantheon and Astroturf -- in the nuts and bolts of civilization.
 
BUILDING BIG
PBS, tonight
(Channel 13, New York, at 8)
 
With David Macaulay. A co-production of WGBH Science Unit and Production Group, Inc., of Washington. Presented by WGBH/ Boston. Paula S. Apsell, executive in charge; Larry Klein, executive producer.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 28, 2000, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
A television review on Oct. 3 about "Building Big," a five-part PBS documentary about feats of architecture and engineering, misstated the year in which an ill-fated bridge, then the world's longest, was built across the Firth of Tay in Scotland. It was completed in 1877, not 1890. A picture caption with the review misidentified the bridge shown and the date of the scene. It was a recent photograph of the Firth of Forth bridge, also discussed in the documentary, not an 1890 view of the Firth of Tay bridge. A correction prepared on Oct. 3 went astray at The Times.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A view, circa 1890, of the ill-fated bridge across the Firth of Tay in Scotland. (PBS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BUILDING BIG (TV PROGRAM)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (53%); C (BMV) (53%); 8710 (TSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); SCOTLAND (73%); FRANCE (71%); MALAYSIA (71%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%); EGYPT (56%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (71%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE CITIGROUP INC (53%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (90%); AMERICAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS (84%); AMERICAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (90%); AMERICAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS (84%); AMERICAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); SCOTLAND (73%); FRANCE (71%); MALAYSIA (71%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%); EGYPT (56%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (71%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; REVIEWS; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); BUILDINGS (STRUCTURES) TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (93%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (78%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); RELIGION (71%); ETHICS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%); HIGH SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: SALAMON, JULIE DAVID MACAULAY (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000



82 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2000

SECTION: Section W; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Confidence Surges in Japan But Optimism Is Tempered

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 3

 BODY:
Japan's large manufacturers turned markedly more confident about business conditions the last three months despite adverse foreign exchange rates, rising oil prices and a weakening stock market, a widely followed quarterly Bank of Japan survey showed today.
It was the seventh consecutive quarter that the survey, known as the tankan, showed a rise in confidence among the leading industrial Japanese corporations, reaching the highest level in more than three years. 
 The trend was stronger than had been expected, but the survey also showed weaknesses. In contrast to the optimism of large corporations, many smaller Japanese businesses remain gloomy about the future.
Taichi Sakaiya, the head of the Economic Planning Agency, and Kiichi Miyazawa, the finance minister, suggested in their comments about the survey today that they were not overly impressed.
"I am modestly satisfied with the overall result of the tankan," Mr. Miyazawa said. "The delay in the recovery among small companies has caught my attention."
An index based on survey results of big companies rose from a reading of 3 in the June survey to a 10 in the latest survey. That means 10 percent more big companies are optimistic about business conditions than are pessimistic.
The survey also showed, however, that the same index would probably only rise to 11 for October through December. "I don't want to put it too strongly, but we may be seeing a deceleration in industrial activity going forward," said Michael Naldrett, an economist at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson in Tokyo. "There's no sign of that in the data so far, but everyone is concerned about next year."
Although evidence has accumulated in recent months that Japan's economy is recovering from prolonged weakness, there is some worry that soaring oil prices and the yen's relative strength could hurt economic growth.The stock market, which has fallen 16 percent this year, barely moved on the news of the tankan survey.
Hiromichi Shirakawa, chief economist at UBS Warburg (Japan), said that even a meager increase in expectations for the current quarter could evaporate by the time the next poll is taken. "It seems to me that there is a risk that the index for large manufacturers may see a dip next time," he said.
Mr. Shirakawa and others noted that the strong exports that have been one of the chief propellants of the Japanese economy's latest effort to recover are likely to decline. Recent statistics from purchasing managers in Europe and the United States suggests a slowdown in demand, and inventories in industries like electrical machinery, iron and steel have been creeping up lately, economists said.
The tankan showed that big manufacturers nonetheless increased their spending plans, projecting an average 6 percent rise in capital expenditures for the fiscal year ending March 31. In the previous survey, they were projecting a 4.6 percent increase. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (82%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (82%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (82%); BANK OF JAPAN (58%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); STOCKS AND BONDS POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); BONDS (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE KIICHI MIYAZAWA (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2000



83 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 35; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings;
What Price Fairness?

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
Why do I buy books from Ama zon.com? Location, location, location. Not Amazon's -- mine. The bookstores of central New Jersey are actually better than you might expect, but London it's not.
Browsing in a physical bookstore is still the best way to find books you weren't looking for. But if there's a specific book I want, I go online. Convenience, not price, is the selling point: I would buy those books from Amazon even if I were charged a couple of dollars extra. 
 And maybe Amazon will charge me a few dollars extra.
Recently it came to light that Amazon has been charging different customers different prices (for movies, not books). The company insists that the price differentials were random, a way of testing the market. But many buyers accused the online retailer of tailoring its price to the consumer's characteristics. And even if Amazon's prices really were random, the outrage of those who had paid a few dollars extra suggests that "dynamic pricing" is about to become a major consumer issue, maybe even a political issue.
You see, despite that outrage, dynamic pricing won't go away. Both the nature of e-commerce -- the ease with which sellers can figure out who you are and what you want -- and the nature of "new economy" business in general make it almost irresistible. The only thing that is likely to stop it is government action.
Dynamic pricing is a new version of an old practice: price discrimination. It uses a potential buyer's electronic fingerprint -- his record of previous purchases, his address, maybe the other sites he has visited -- to size up how likely he is to balk if the price is high. If the customer looks price-sensitive, he gets a bargain; if he doesn't he pays a premium.
To see why this is not just attractive to sellers but arguably good for the economy, look at how the publishing business works now. Books must be sold at a price well above the actual cost of producing one more copy. Otherwise the publisher couldn't cover costs that don't depend on how many books are sold -- editing, typesetting and, yes, writing. But by charging, say, $25 for a book that costs only $3 to produce the publisher loses some potential profitable sales.
So publishers try to sort customers indirectly. Most books are offered first in hardcover, then some time later in paperback. The paperback is cheaper to produce; but mainly its lower price is a way of pulling in price-sensitive customers after the juice has been squeezed out of the well heeled and impatient.
But in the world of e-commerce, such crude market segmentation isn't necessary. When I log on to Amazon, the site offers me quite accurate recommendations -- not just for books but for music, which is spooky considering that I've never bought music online. In other words, Amazon's computers have got my tastes pretty well pegged. So I'm sure similar algorithms would have no trouble figuring out which customers are likely to be repelled by a high price and which are likely to ignore it -- and tailoring the prices customers are actually offered accordingly.
This would obviously be good for Amazon. But it would also be good for the overall book business. publishers would be willing to publish more titles, book buyers who would otherwise have delayed their purchase until the thing came out in paper would be spared the wait. And it would be good for any other business with high fixed costs (it's expensive to offer the thing at all) but low marginal costs (it's cheap to satisfy one more customer) -- a combination that has become ever more common as we have moved from an economy that mainly made physical things to one that increasingly deals in digital embodiments of ideas.
But dynamic pricing is also undeniably unfair: some people pay more just because of who they are.
In fact, dynamic pricing might already be illegal. I'm no lawyer, but it looks to me as if the Robinson-Patman Act, which outlaws price discrimination across state lines (though strictly speaking only if it hurts competition), could be invoked to prevent dynamic pricing. But it's a judgment call -- one that depends on how much you value fairness versus how much you want to promote e-commerce.
One thing is clear: The next battle in the eternal conflict between equity and efficiency may well be in cyberspace. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET BOOKSTORES (90%); PRODUCT PRICING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (76%); RETAILERS (76%); PRICE DISCRIMINATION (73%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (69%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (68%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (66%); 

PERSON: KRUGMAN, PAUL PAUL KRUGMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2000



84 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
SPAIN: TRUCKERS BLOCK BORDER TO FRANCE -- Spanish truckers blocked the two main border crossings into France for the second day running as part of a wave of protests to press for cheaper fuel. Taxi drivers staged a 12-hour strike in most Spanish cities and fishermen along the southern Mediterranean coast stayed in port in separate actions intended to force the government to cut fuel taxes, which can account for up to 60 percent of the price at the pump. Benjamin Jones (NYT) 

SPAIN: 477 ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS SEIZED -- The police arrested 477 Moroccans and sub-Saharan Africans who were trying to get into the country after crossing the Strait of Gibraltar. Among those detained aboard small boats or along the southern coast after they landed were dozens of women and at least two children. Authorities said that so far this year 10,000 immigrants had been arrested in the region, or almost twice the number detained in 1999. Benjamin Jones (NYT)
 
NETHERLANDS: GLOBALIZATION PROTESTS -- Anti-globalization protesters threw smoke bombs and tried to breach police barricades outside a conference in Amsterdam attended by the World Bank president, James Wolfensohn. The police said three people had been arrested at the conference location and 40 others detained after the demonstration spread to a nearby square where protesters stormed a Czech Airlines office. There were no reports of injuries. (Reuters)
 
BRITAIN: ACCORD WITH CHILE -- Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said he had reached agreement with his Chilean counterpart, Soledad Alvear, reinforcing ties between the two countries that were strained by the arrest in England of the former dictator Augusto Pinochet. "Prominent in the agreement is our commitment to make sure there is steady exchange at the highest level between the leaders of our countries," Mr. Cook said. General Pinochet was held under house arrest in England for 17 months while lawyers unsuccessfully sought to extradite him to Spain to stand trial on torture charges dating from his 1973-1990 rule. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
CANADA: LOBBYISTS SUE -- With Prime Minister Jean Chretien considering calling an election in November, the National Citizens Coalition, a lobby group, has challenged in a Calgary court a new federal law that limits lobby group spending. Under the law, adopted in May, the maximum a lobby group may spend to support a candidate or a party is $100,000 nationally, or $335 per parliamentary district. James Brooke (NYT)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
IRAQ: 'OIL FOR FOOD' PROCEEDS -- Iraq has sold almost $35 billion in oil in the last four years under the United Nations "oil for food" program, organization officials said. In addition to medicines and foods, Iraq has bought oil tankers, irrigation systems and oil field equipment. But the United States continues to block some Iraqi contracts, including $1.89 billion for civilian goods amounting to 14.5 percent of all current orders. Barbara Crossette (NYT)
 
IRAN: KHATAMI CHOICE REJECTED -- Parliament refused to approve the nomination of a close supporter of President Mohammad Khatami to the job of post and telecommunications minister, despite a personal plea from the president. Although the president has a large majority in the Parliament, legislators turned down Nasrollah Jahangard because of his "inexperience" and "lack of familiarity" with the issues of the ministry. (Agence France-Presse)
 
KUWAIT: BORDER ALERT -- Kuwait put the police on alert along its border with Iraq to confront what it said was the massing of Iraqi intelligence agents. The acting defense minister and interior minister, Sheik Mohammad Khaled al-Sabah, inspected operations on the frontier, where hundreds of stateless Arabs have been gathering on the Iraqi side. Kuwait fears that those Arabs could sweep across the border on orders from Baghdad. Tension between Kuwait and Iraq has been mounting since August, when Baghdad marked the 10th anniversary of its invasion of Kuwait, which led to the Persian Gulf war. (Reuters)
 
AFRICA
 
ETHIOPIA: SELASSIE REBURIAL -- The late Emperor Haile Selassie will be reburied on Nov. 5 in a ceremony aimed at restoring the dignity of a monarch who died 25 years ago. The body of the emperor, who was deposed by military officers in 1974 and was either murdered or simply allowed to die of neglect a year later, will be buried in a tomb in the Orthodox Trinity Cathedral in the capital, Addis Ababa. His body was exhumed from beneath a toilet in 1992, a year after the Marxist government of Mengistu Haile Mariam was overthrown. It has lain in a mausoleum in Addis Ababa since then. (Reuters)
 
IVORY COAST: OPPOSITION CHARGES -- Men wearing military uniforms failed in an attempt to abduct the wife of the opposition leader Alassane Ouattara, but arrested eight of her bodyguards, Mr. Ouattara's spokesman said. The abduction attempt took place as Dominique Ouattara was leaving her office, the spokesman said. Mr. Ouattara, a former prime minister, says he intends to run against the military ruler, Gen. Robert Guei, in presidential elections set for Oct. 22. (Agence France-Presse)
 
ASIA
 
INDIA: SEEKING RUSSIAN WEAPONS -- India is negotiating with Russian officials to buy Russian tanks and fighter aircraft during President Vladimir V. Putin's four-day visit to India, the national security adviser, Brajesh Mishra, said. Mr. Putin reiterated Russia's support for India's membership in the United Nations Security Council. He and Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee agreed to coordinate their efforts to combat terrorism they say is emanating from Afghanistan. Celia W. Dugger (NYT)
 
AFGHANISTAN: TALIBAN DENIES CHARGES -- The ruling Taliban denied sending, sponsoring or training Islamic militants to wage war elsewhere in Central Asia. Russia has expressed fears that a recent string of Taliban victories in northern Afghanistan could embolden militants in the former Soviet republics of Central Asia, particularly Tajikistan. But the Taliban foreign minister, Wakil Ahmed Muttawakil, said Afghanistan did not have the resources or the desire to interfere in its neighbors' affairs. (AP)
 
INDONESIA: FUEL PRICE PROTESTS -- As part of continuing protests over increased fuel prices, hundreds of students smashed windows and burned cars before vandalizing a government office in Makassar, the capital of South Sulawesi Province, about 800 miles northeast of Jakarta. In other protests, dozens of demonstrators damaged a car outside the Parliament building in Jakarta, above. The government raised fuel prices by an average of 12 percent on Sunday. (AP)
 
SRI LANKA: SUICIDE BOMBER KILLS 24 -- A suicide bomber from the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam killed 24 people in an attack in the northeast town of Muttur, including Baithulla, a candidate from the Sri Lanka Muslim Congress. Amnesty International condemned the attack and sent a protest to the rebels' London office. Celia W. Dugger (NYT)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos (Associated Press); (Reuters)
 
Map of Kuwait.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); SPAIN (94%); IRAQ (94%); NETHERLANDS (92%); ENGLAND (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); CHILE (92%); CANADA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); MOROCCO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); ALBERTA, CANADA (52%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (94%); SPAIN (94%); IRAQ (94%); NETHERLANDS (92%); ENGLAND (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); CHILE (92%); CANADA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); MOROCCO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); ALBERTA, CANADA (52%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); ARRESTS (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); LOBBYING (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); EXTRADITION (87%); BULK SHIPPING (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); HOUSE ARREST (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (74%); MARINE TANKERS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); FUEL TAX (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); TAX RELIEF (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); LEGISLATION (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); TORTURE (50%); 

PERSON: JEAN CHRETIEN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2000



85 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasury Prices Drop as Federal Reserve Holds Rates Steady

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Treasury bond prices fell yesterday after Federal Reserve policy makers left interest rates unchanged and warned that high oil prices would increase the risks of faster inflation.
"The longer oil prices stay up" the more they will filter into prices of other goods and services, said Bentley Myer, who oversees $2 billion at William Blair & Company in Chicago. He said every Treasury security whose yield was below the 6.5 percent federal funds rate was vulnerable. 
The 10-year Treasury note fell 11/32 , to a price of 99 5/32 . The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.86 percent from 5.82 percent on Monday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 8/32 , to 104 10/32 . The bond's yield rose to 5.94 percent from 5.92 percent on Monday.
Treasuries had fallen before the Fed announcement, with investors selling government debt on concern that oil prices above $30 a barrel would lead to accelerated inflation, which erodes the value of bonds' fixed payments. Treasuries also declined in early trading as the three major United States measures of stock prices rose. Stocks pared gains after the statement by the Fed.
Mr. Myer said that while he does not find value in Treasuries now, he is buying them as a short-term hedge against any further decline in stocks.
"The increase in energy prices, though having limited effect on core measures of prices to date, poses a risk of raising inflation expectations," the Federal Open Market Committee said in announcing its rate decision. "The committee believes the risks continue to be weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate heightened inflation pressures in the foreseeable future."
The statement "was pretty tough" and "the really bullish guys who thought the Fed would change to a neutral" stance on interest rates are reversing their bets, said Joseph Pregiato, co-leader of institutional fixed-income sales at Josephthal & Company.
Fed officials left the target for overnight lending among banks at 6.5 percent, after raising it six times since June 1999 by a total of 1.75 percentage points.
The meeting's outcome came as no surprise. Even so, the accompanying statement was more aggressive than expected, Mr. Pregiato said. "They're talking like they're poised to strike again, but I don't know if there's any bite," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (72%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (72%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (72%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: WILLIAM BLAIR & CO LLC (72%); JOSEPHTHAL & CO INC (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES TREASURY SECURITIES (94%); BONDS (94%); BOND MARKETS (93%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INFLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH PREGIATO (62%); BENTLEY MYER (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2000



86 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Single-Family Home Sales Fell in August

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 3

 BODY:
Sales of new single-family homes dropped in August but remained on course to register the second-best year on record, government figures showed today.
A decline in all regions caused sales to drop 3 percent in August, to 893,000 units at an annual rate, after rising 11.8 percent in July, the Commerce Department said. Based on the first eight months, sales are on pace to finish the year close to the record 907,000 units sold in 1999. 
 "It's still a pretty strong year," said Joel Rassman, chief financial officer at Toll Brothers Inc., the nation's largest builder of luxury homes. "Consumer confidence is still strong, and I don't think people are worried about their jobs."
In a separate report, the Conference Board said that the index of leading economic indicators fell in August -- the third decline in the last four months -- suggesting the economy will grow more slowly in the final quarter of the year. The Conference Board's index fell 0.1 percent in August after a 0.2 percent decline in July.
Declines in hours worked by manufacturers and a rise in claims for state unemployment benefits led the overall drop in the August index of leading economic indicators. Among the 10 components in the New York group's index, 6 had a negative effect while 4 made a positive contribution.
Home sales dropped in all regions, led by a 6 percent decline in the West, to 236,000 units at an annual rate. Sales fell 1.6 percent in the Midwest, to an annual pace of 182,000 units; 2.4 percent in the South, to a 408,000-unit rate; and 1.5 percent in the Northeast, to a 66,000-unit annual pace.
The median price of a new home declined 0.7 percent in August, to $165,000 from $166,100 in July.
New houses account for about 15 percent of all home sales. Based on the first eight months, sales are on pace to finish the year at 889,000. That is between the 1999 record and the second-best performance, 886,000 homes sold, in 1998.
Surging mortgage rates that had crimped purchases from April through June have since fallen, which is one reason several analysts question how much home sales will cool during the rest of the year.
Interest on a conventional 30-year loan has stayed below 8 percent since mid-August, compared with a five-year high of 8.64 percent in May.
Moreover, an August unemployment rate of 4.1 percent, close to a three-decade low, has made most Americans confident enough to buy homes.
"There is little to stop home sales rising through the year-end," said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Leading Indicators"
Index of 10 indicators designed to "lead" or predict overall economic activity; 1996 = 100.
 
Change From Previous Month
 
Aug. ............-0.1%
July .............-0.2
June ............Unch.
 
Graph from May 1999-August 2000
(Source: The Conference Board)
 
Chart: "New-Home Sales"
Annual rate in thousands of new private homes sold during month, seasonally adjusted.
 
Change From Previous Month
 
Aug. ..........-3.0%
July ...........+11.8
June ..........-5.8
 
Graph from May 1999-August 2000
(Source: Commerce Department)
 
Chart: "Leading Indicators: Component Analysis"
Components of the Index of Leading Economic Indicators and their net weighted contribution to the index's change from July to August.
 
Average workweek of production workers in manufacturing
Contrib. to Index: -0.11
 
Average initial weekly claims for state unemployment insurance*
Contrib. to Index: -0.10
 
New orders for consumer goods and materials, adjusted for inflation
Contrib. to Index: +0.03
 
Vendor performance (companies receiving slower deliveries from suppliers)
Contrib. to Index: -0.03
 
New orders for non-military capital goods, adjusted for inflation
Contrib. to Index: +0.04
 
New building permits issued
Contrib. to Index: -0.02
 
Index of stock prices
Contrib. to Index: +0.02
 
Money supply: M-2, adjusted for inflation
Contrib. to Index: +0.11
 
Spread between rates on 10-year Treasury bonds and federal funds
Contrib. to Index: -0.04
 
Index of consumer expectations
Contrib. to Index: -0.01
 
*Series is inverted in computing
index; that is, a decrease in the
series is considered upward
movement.
 
(Source: The Conference Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TOL (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (71%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (71%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (71%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (71%); SIC6163 LOAN BROKERS (71%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; CONFERENCE BOARD TOLL BROTHERS INC (71%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; CONFERENCE BOARD US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); MORTGAGE RATES (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2000



87 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE, ABBY GOODNOUGH and KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:

Headmaster to Step Down
LANCE ODDEN, who has been headmaster of the Taft School in Watertown, Conn., for 29 years, will retire at the end of this school year. The youngest person to lead a major American private school when he was named to the post at age 32, Mr. Odden founded the Taft Education Center, which provided training and help in designing Advanced Placement courses to more than 3,000 public-school teachers. Under his leadership, the boarding school's campus expanded substantially, as did its endowment, to $132 million from $3 million. 

Web Radio for Teachers
Scholastic Inc., the Manhattan publisher of children's books and instructional materials, has started an Internet radio program intended to provide teachers with education news, teaching tips and interviews with educators and child development experts. The half-hour program, Teacher Radio, is being offered Monday through Thursday, beginning this week. NINA JAFFE, a faculty member at Bank Street College of Education, and LOU GIANSANTE, a former National Public Radio producer, are the hosts. The program is accessible from www.scholastic.com.
 
Pre-Med, and Travel, Too
Continuing its effort to send more students abroad for at least a semester, New York University has unveiled a new partnership with the University of London, where premedical students will be able to take required science courses and not lose ground in their efforts to get into medical school. L. JAY OLIVA, above, N.Y.U.'s president, and MARTIN LIPTON, its chairman, presided over the official opening of the N.Y.U. in London Center last week.
The center, N.Y.U.'s sixth foreign study site, will also offer courses in other areas, including British civilization and culture and the political, social and economic issues of western Europe. DAVID-HILLEL RUBEN, a philosopher, will direct the center.
 
Cash for Business Ideas
Baruch College is about to join the growing list of business schools running contests in which students submit competing entrepreneurial plans. Two alumni, LARRY ZICKLIN, managing principal of the investment firm of Neuberger & Berman, and ARTHUR S. AINSBERG, chief financial officer of the investment firm of Brahman Partners in New York, have agreed to sponsor the competition for three years. Winners will receive prizes up to $5,000. Especially promising business plans will be eligible for as much as $50,000 in seed money. BARRY DUMAS, the faculty coordinator, said the judges would be looking for "anything hip and happening, not just the next pizza parlor." Preliminary plans are due Oct. 9 and final plans by next spring.
 
Giving and Giving and . . .
JAMES P. HYNES and his wife, ANNE MARIE, had already given $1.5 million to Iona College for a natural science center, to be named after them. Then, as everybody gathered to celebrate the center in late September, they added another $8.5 million. Most of the new money will go for an athletic center that will also be named for the Hyneses. Mr. Hynes, who graduated from Iona in 1969 and now serves as a trustee, is an investment manager and venture capitalist, and Mrs. Hynes runs the Analysis Group, a consulting firm.
 KATE ZERNIKE, ABBY GOODNOUGH and KAREN W. ARENSON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (73%); WESTERN EUROPE (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); 

COMPANY: SCHOLASTIC INC (71%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (55%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (55%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (73%); WESTERN EUROPE (53%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); INTERNET AUDIO (90%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (79%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); CHILDREN (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (78%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); TEACHER EDUCATION (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (75%); PUBLIC RADIO (75%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%); BUSINESS PLANS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (71%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (71%); SPONSORSHIP (70%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (69%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (69%); BOOK PUBLISHING (55%); 

PERSON: ZERNIKE, KATE; GOODNOUGH, ABBY; ARENSON, KAREN W MARTIN LIPTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2000



88 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Sell-Off in Technology Pushes Nasdaq to 3.2% Plunge

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
The Nasdaq composite index had its worst one-day point loss since late July yesterday, as a wide swath of technology stocks, led by Oracle, had big losses.
Traders and analysts said the Nasdaq sell-off began in midafternoon, shortly after the Federal Reserve policy makers said they had voted to leave short-term interest rates unchanged. 
 The Nasdaq composite closed at 3,455.83, down 113.07 points, or 3.2 percent. Before the Fed announcement, the index was up as much as 1.4 percent.
It was the biggest one-day decline in the index since July 28, and its eighth drop in the last nine sessions. The last time the composite closed lower was on May 31, only a week after hitting its low for the year at 3,164.55.
In its statement, the Fed said that while the pace of economic growth had moderated, tight labor markets and rising energy prices remained potential inflation threats. Without saying so, the Fed implied that it would not be moving to lower short-term rates anytime soon.
The announcement was a disappointment to some traders, but hardly a surprise. Most analysts had expected the central bank to keep policy unchanged.
Still, stock prices started to slide after the announcement.
"Any kind of incremental news is seen as a reason to sell," said Rob Cohen, co-head of block trading at Credit Suisse First Boston.
Rumors that Oracle would not meet its revenue numbers in the current quarter also hurt and prompted a wide sell-off in business-to-business Internet stocks.
Shares of the Oracle, which held a meeting with analysts in San Francisco yesterday, fell $9.25, to $69.50. Oracle was the third-most actively traded stock yesterday. Since the end of August, the shares have declined 24 percent.
Other market indexes were narrowly mixed.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 19.61 points, or 0.2 percent, to 10,719.74. Gains in so-called old-economy stocks like DuPont, Alcoa and Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing more than offset big declines in I.B.M. and Microsoft.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dipped 9.77 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,426.46. In addition to Oracle, the index was hurt by big losses in EMC and Sun Microsystems.
The S.& P. technology index, meanwhile, fell 53.78 points, to 1,813.95, a new low for the year.
Jim Paulson, chief investment officer for Wells Capital Management, said the sell-off in technology stocks was likely to continue.
"There have been almost continual dot.com problems since March," he said, "and those haven't been addressed. Now, the big companies are having trouble, and their stocks are breaking down. It's one thing to have a dot.com meltdown when the economy is growing at 6 percent, as it was earlier this year. But it's another when the economy is growing at 3 percent or thereabouts."
By contrast, it was a good day for old-line cyclical stocks.
DuPont gained $2.75, to $44.38. Alcoa, which reports its third-quarter numbers tomorrow, gained $2.44, to $26.94. And 3M gained $2.31, to $94.
But it was a very bad day for Xerox. And Microsoft hit a new 52-week low.
After the close of regular trading on Monday, Xerox said it would report its first quarterly loss in 16 years. The stock, which has been in a downward spiral for some time, fell $3.94, to $11.38.
Microsoft fell $2.56, to $56.56. The stock is down more than 51 percent so far this year.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (92%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); AAI (ASX) (52%); AA (NYSE) (52%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); MMM (SWX) (52%); MMM (NYSE) (52%); MMM (FRA) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (52%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (52%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (52%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (52%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (52%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (51%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (92%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); ALCOA INC (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); 3M CO (52%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (96%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2000



89 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
U.S. Seeks Faster Filing Schedule in Appeal of Microsoft Case

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 3

 BODY:
Trying to demonstrate that the appeal of the Microsoft verdict can be handled quickly, the Justice Department proposed a schedule for the filing of documents in the case today, two days earlier than scheduled, and called for a filing period half as long as the one Microsoft proposed on Monday.
"As the court has recognized," the government wrote, the case is "of exceptional importance." And because the trial judge in the case stayed the judgment and remedy against Microsoft until appeals are complete, it said, "it is essential for effective antitrust law enforcement in a critical sector of the nation's economy that the appeal should be concluded expeditiously." 
 On Monday, Microsoft asked the appeals court to allow more than five months for the filing of documents in its appeal of the antitrust judgment against the company. Microsoft's plan would carry the filing period into late March or early April.
Today the Justice Department and 19 states that are allied with it in the case asked for a period for filing briefs that would end a few days before Christmas.
Microsoft, the government said, has already had "ample time to formulate its position." Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson's final judgment and remedy order were issued on June 7, almost four months ago.
The government proposes to have Microsoft file its appeal by Nov. 1. The government would file a response on Dec. 8, and Microsoft would be allowed to reply no later than Dec. 22.
Microsoft had also proposed to file an appeal of 56,000 words, four times what the court normally allows. Today the government proposed appeal documents no longer than 24,000 words, not quite twice as long as normal.
"The excessively long briefs Microsoft seeks to file would burden the court and inevitably delay disposition of the appeal," the government wrote.
In a statement issued this evening, Microsoft said: "Microsoft's appeal will raise a broad number of legal, factual and procedural issues. We have suggested a schedule and briefing length that will allow for a prompt and efficient process to consider the appeal."
The Justice Department separately announced two promotions within the antitrust division, after the departure on Friday of Joel I. Klein, who headed the division.
A. Douglas Melamed, the new acting head of the division, promoted John M. Names to the No. 2 spot in the division, the job Mr. Melamed had held. Mr. Names had been deputy assistant attorney general.
Stepping into that job now is Jeffrey H. Blattner, who has been a special counsel in the division serving as chief of staff for the Microsoft case. Of Mr. Blattner, Mr. Klein said: "Jeff's extraordinary legal skill, strategic acumen and sound judgment made him an invaluable adviser to me." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT MICROSOFT CORP (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; STATES (US); COMPUTER SOFTWARE; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); APPEALS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); JUDGES (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); LITIGATION (71%); CHRISTMAS (66%); 

PERSON: BRINKLEY, JOEL; MELAMED, A DOUGLAS; NAMES, JOHN M; BLATTNER, JEFFREY H ANN LIVERMORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2000



90 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2124 words

HEADLINE: Circumventing An Oil Crisis;
This Time, Policy Makers Take a Hands-Off Approach

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. 

 BODY:
It seems like an echo of another era.
More than a quarter of a century ago, when the world experienced its first energy shock, gasoline and heating oil supplies tightened, crude oil prices rose more than threefold and industry profits skyrocketed. Today, with the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries once again in the driver's seat, gasoline and heating oil supplies are tight, crude oil prices have tripled and industry profits are soaring. 
 So why have the reactions been so different? The latest oil squeeze, of course, has been considerably milder than in the 1970's and has not been accompanied by the widespread public panic caused in part by the announcement that Arab nations were cutting off oil supplies to the United States. But just as important in explaining the contrast between then and now, analysts say, is how American policy makers have reacted to OPEC's moves.
In 1973, Washington responded to the oil embargo by taking its already draconian system of price limits and other government controls on oil and gasoline and expanding it. Much of that system was still in place six years later, during the nation's second big oil crisis, which followed the fall of the shah of Iran.
Oil company executives were hauled before Congress and skewered over soaring prices and profits, and the government started major price-fixing investigations. Little ever came of those cases, but one piece of wisdom did eventually emerge: instead of making the situation better, the government controls actually worsened the supply problems.
Today, policy makers are striving to work with market forces instead of fighting them. In the debate over President Clinton's decision last month to release 30 million barrels of oil from the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserve, for example, critics -- led by Gov. George W. Bush of Texas -- derided the move as an improper intrusion of politics into the marketplace. And compared to Nixon- and Carter-era controls, it was a tame step.
Despite assertions by some politicians that industry misbehavior may have played a role in this year's high prices, many policy makers have now embraced the idea that markets left to their own devices work better than government controls -- a notion that, at best, was on the fringes in Washington at the time of the first oil shock.
The United States is not in the clear yet, of course, as it faces winter with very low inventories of heating oil and natural gas. Already this year, after California's recently deregulated power markets threatened to run short of electricity, prices soared and there were calls for reimposing controls on consumer prices.
And, it is difficult to compare the current situation with 27 years ago, when consumers feared not just high prices but that they would not have enough fuel to drive their cars or heat their homes. Then, even though overall supplies fell much less, imports of crude oil and petroleum products briefly dropped more than 20 percent, according to the American Petroleum Institute. By contrast, while overall worldwide supplies have not kept pace with rising demand, current imports are only a bit lower than year-earlier levels.
Furthermore, in the 1970's, sharp changes in the price of oil had a far greater effect on the economy, and inflation, than now.
Still, in most of the country, angst over rising prices today seems surprisingly subdued. "It's kind of curious that we could have this kind of rise in oil prices with as little apparent feeling about it in the United States," said Paul A. Volcker, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve. "Maybe the country is just too prosperous to worry about it."
The energy proposals that Mr. Bush, the Republican presidential candidate, brought out last week -- including opening part of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to exploration and incentives to promote coal and nuclear power -- could test the willingness of Americans to rebalance environmental and energy priorities in the face of higher prices. For his part, Vice President Al Gore, the Democratic presidential candidate, favors investments in mass transit and incentives to encourage the use of more fuel-efficient vehicles and alternative energy sources.
One leading oil economist, Philip K. Verleger Jr., calculates that the oil price increase since OPEC cut production in March 1999 could cost consumers almost a half-trillion dollars worldwide by next year -- nearly as much, in inflation-adjusted dollars, as during the oil embargo.
The biggest difference is that in the 1970's the government oversaw price controls on gasoline; set allocation rules that spread petroleum among industries and regions; and, at the beginning of the decade, even maintained quotas on imported oil. All that turned federal officials into central planners dictating much of what industry and retailers were allowed to do. Suspicions abounded, meanwhile, about conspiracies to fix prices or drive smaller competitors out of business -- fears abetted by the lack of the comparatively open petroleum market that has developed in the years since.
Price controls, instituted in 1971 by President Richard M. Nixon to curb inflation and maintained on the oil industry well after they were abandoned in other sectors of the economy, "were one of the most anomalous episodes in American history," said Eliot R. Cutler, who served for a time as energy czar under President Jimmy Carter. "Here you had this Republican free-market president imposing and maintaining the most elaborate set of price controls Americans had had in any time other than war."
Eventually, he said, the poor results "were viewed as evidence that the free market was a much more efficient mechanism compared to a bunch of government bureaucrats."
The lessons learned during the 1970's had a profound effect on political leaders in both parties, said Daniel Yergin, the chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates and author of a Pulitzer Prize-winning history of the oil industry. That was particularly true among those who had always preferred a strong government regulatory role.
"For many Democrats, the shift to a more market-oriented view of the world began with their experience with energy price controls," he said. "That was a major turning point."
As the 1970's began, almost no one in Washington realized just how precarious the nation's oil supply had become. While the nation had imported oil for many years, by far the bulk was produced domestically. The government maintained quotas on imports that had long served to protect politically powerful American producers by limiting cheaper and more plentiful foreign oil. Those were not lifted until early 1973.
But domestic oil production had leveled off in 1970 while demand continued to soar, giving Mideast producers drastic new leverage over the United States. That was made clear in October 1973, when, as the Yom Kippur War began, Saudi Arabia and other Arab nations angrily reacted to President Nixon's military aid for Israel by halting shipments of oil to the United States.
Within weeks, prices for gasoline and heating rose sharply, even with the price controls, as refiners were allowed to pass through the increase in crude oil costs. Some schools shut down to conserve energy; gasoline lines left drivers waiting for hours; and gasoline pedaled under the table in some cases sold for over $1 a gallon.
The price controls and allocations were linked to past profits and consumption. Retailers were supposed to make the same profit margins they previously earned, for example, while doing nothing more than passing on increases in wholesale gasoline costs. And allocations were pegged to prior petroleum sales.
Late in his term, President Carter began the process of lifting the controls, but they were not abolished completely until President Ronald Reagan took action in 1981.
"Part of the reason we haven't had gas lines this year is that there has been no serious exogenous shock to the system like we had in the 1970's," said Vahan Zanoyan, president of the Petroleum Finance Company, a Washington consulting firm. But an equally important reason now, he added, "is that we're letting the market decide the prices."
This year, Mr. Yergin said, the nation experienced a glimmer of the panic seen in the 1970's when prices soared above $2 a gallon in the Midwest. But within a month of prices reaching their peak, the Midwest had the cheapest gasoline in the nation. Suppliers, free to shift gasoline and oil from other parts of the country and eager to cash in on the huge profits refiners were making, flooded the region with fuel, constrained only by transportation needs.
"So often, when you get into really tight markets, what's really critical is logistics," Mr. Yergin said. In the past, price controls and allocation measures "actually did as much as anything to create gas lines by preventing the market from moving supplies around to where demand was a real crisis."
Those controls did not really hurt oil industry profits, however, and by January 1974, the major integrated companies began reporting income gains of 50 percent or more. In Washington, Senator Henry M. Jackson, the Washington Democrat, paraded executives from the nation's seven major oil companies before his Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, grilling them on television about their role in the crisis.
But profits were not the only thing that made the industry an easy target. Compared with today, the industry was a mystery, with far less data publicly available and no worldwide marketplace that reported crude oil prices. Oil producers would simply post prices, and there was essentially no spot market for crude.
"Everyone was calling for price-fixing cases," Mr. Cutler said, "but there was no evidence of a mass conspiracy."
There were some settlements in the many millions of dollars for violations of price controls and allocation rules, and some states won other settlements from oil producers. But the Justice Department in 1983 ended a six-year antitrust inquiry into the four major oil companies operating in Saudi Arabia because regulators failed to uncover "any remediable violations of the antitrust laws." Two years earlier, the Federal Trade Commission had abandoned a case that had sought to break up the nation's major oil companies on the ground that they had engaged in collusive behavior.
The pricing power earlier enjoyed by the major oil companies, known as the Seven Sisters, began to disintegrate once OPEC began flexing its muscles and demanding higher prices for its crude. Britain sold huge quantities of oil drilled from new fields in the North Sea, further decoupling oil from the old "posted prices" system.
And by the early 1980's, producers, distributors and refiners could trade futures contracts that gave them the right to sell or buy crude, heating oil and gasoline at a set price later on.
"The introduction of these commodity markets changed the whole behavior of the business," Mr. Verleger, a former Treasury Department energy adviser, said. Today, the world consumes about 75 million barrels of oil daily, but as much as a half-billion barrels are traded on some days, estimates Mr. Verleger, who is now at Brattle Group, a consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass.
The current structure of the market still allows for collusive practices; the whole purpose of OPEC is to control supply and, as a result, prices. In the United States, the F.T.C. is investigating complaints by Mr. Gore and other politicians that refiners this summer may have fixed prices in the Midwest -- accusations the industry has hotly denied.
But while the market responds far more quickly today to match supply with demand, another major structural change in the industry may not turn out so well for consumers, Mr. Verleger said. Major oil companies have steadily been selling refineries to independent operators for a fraction of their replacement cost, leaving these smaller companies, with their higher credit costs and smaller capital budgets, to produce a greater share of the nation's gasoline, jet fuel, heating oil and other products.
These smaller companies, he said, are more likely to keep low inventories of oil and run their plants full blast only when profits on refining are attractive -- factors that played a role in the low inventories of refined products this year. Moreover, if the United States faces a refining capacity shortage later this decade for new varieties of clean-burning fuels, these companies may be less prepared to deal with it.
The refining market today "is at once both more competitive for petroleum products," Mr. Verleger said, "and much less financially secure."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: This summer, when prices soared above $2 a gallon in the Midwest, consumers got a glimpse of the panic seen in the 1970's. But Midwest prices soon dropped significantly. (Associated Press)(pg. C1); Last month, President Clinton decided to release 30 million barrels of oil from the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserve, a move considered tame compared with Washington's response to the oil shocks of the 1970's. (Associated Press)(pg. C8)
 
Chart: "Fuel Frenzy"
Battered by repeated switches between gluts and shortages like the one that led to gas lines in the late 1970's, left, oil prices have swung wildly in recent decades.
 
Graph shows average price paid by U.S. refineries for a barrel of oil; figures are monthly except 1970-73, which are annual averages.
 
1973 -- The Arab oil embargo begins.
1979-80 -- Revolution in Iran and its war with Iraq limit oil shipments.
1990-91 -- Persian Gulf war raises oil prices.
1997-98 -- Asian economic collapse lessens demand for oil
1999-00 -- With Asia and other regions on the mend, oil production fails to keep up with rising global demand.
 
(Source: Energy Information Administration)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (79%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (93%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (93%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (79%); MIDWEST USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS; STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE; HEATING OIL PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (93%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); HEATING OIL (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (72%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (69%); IRAQ WAR (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (60%); PRICE FIXING (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); OPPEL, RICHARD A JR BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2000



91 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: LESSONS;
Offering Students A Hand to Move Up

BYLINE: By Richard Rothstein; E-mail: rrothstein@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WE like to believe this is a nation of great social mobility. Study and work hard, and you will rise above your parents' status to join the middle class.
But this is more myth than reality. Intergenerational mobility is no higher here than in other industrial nations. When a father is poor, with income at the 25th percentile, the chance of his son being in the poorest fifth is twice that of his being in the richest fifth. 
 In an important new book, "Left Back: A Century of Failed School Reforms" (Simon & Schuster), Diane Ravitch, a historian and former education official in the Bush administration, suggests that, at least in the United States, this lack of mobility was not inevitable. A choice was made to deny immigrant and working-class children education to rise above their parents' stations. They were taught only vocational skills, with academic instruction reserved for the middle class.
Dr. Ravitch adds that the proponents of this differentiation were not conservatives, but "progressives," many at Columbia Teachers College in the early 1900's.
Her attack on this aspect of progressive education finds its mark. But Dr. Ravitch's admiration for opponents of progressivism who, throughout the 20th century, wanted high academic standards for all, is less persuasive. We now understand what conservatives 100 years ago did not: using schools to combat social rigidities requires a lot of compensatory work for the less advantaged. Offering the same academic instruction to all will not work.
Lack of mobility is easy to overlook because economic growth can make children richer than their parents, although their standings relative to peers are unchanged.
But most Americans expect schools to do more than this. Schools should help diligent students move above their parents' relative status. Yet even good schools find this difficult because pupils enter with skills tending to parallel those of their parents. Adults in jobs needing literacy tend to rear children better prepared to read.
In a fairer society, schools would have two missions. First, give children from poorer families the skills to catch up, even while wealthier children also gain. Second, waiting until all have the chance for equal knowledge, sort pupils based on ability and interest, not parentage, into courses that assure success in fields they themselves select.
Dr. Ravitch shows that educators have long disputed how to balance these goals. The winners of these disputes, she complains, have mostly been progressive educators who assumed children could rarely surpass parental stations, so working-class pupils needed only "life adjustment" education.
Progressives considered the early sorting of children into nonacademic programs "democratic" because it kept immigrant and working-class pupils from dropping out of school. Rather than trying to overcome the disadvantages with which these children started, progressives urged dead-end tracks for the lower class.
The dean of Teachers College in 1906, James Russell, argued that schools should preserve civic order, not stimulate ambitions for mobility that "cannot possibly be fulfilled."
Dr. Ravitch shows that suppressing academics to provide vocational training remained schools' purpose until recently. Particularly influential was James B. Conant, a former Harvard president who, in 1959, argued that only 15 percent of students could master college-preparatory lessons. Schools should resist "unreasonable parental pressures" to put others in academic classes not relevant to their eventual jobs, he said.
But Dr. Ravitch's heroes, the dissenters seeking one academic curriculum for all, had a vision as flawed as the differentiated model they denounced. Overcoming social class requires the high standards demanded by the conservatives, but it also needs more -- like summer, all-day and preschool programs, specially trained teachers and customized curriculums that middle-class children do not need. Opponents of differentiation, or tracking, did not understand this.
Dr. Ravitch agrees that disadvantaged pupils may complete academic lessons at a slower pace, but her concession cedes the argument. Unless educators figure out how the poor can catch up, not learn more slowly, upward mobility will not improve.
In good part because of contemporary critics like Diane Ravitch, tracking is now discredited. We now want high standards for all. But if all children cannot get to an even starting gate, the race for rewards will continue to be a sham.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); TEACHER EDUCATION (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); HISTORY (78%); FAMILY (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (75%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (75%); EDUCATION REFORM (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, RICHARD DIANE RAVITCH (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2000



92 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-20
 
As Truce in Mideast Fails, Violent Clashes Resume
A cease-fire between Israel and the Palestinians crumbled within hours when rioting and gun battles flared anew throughout the West Bank and Gaza Strip and in Arab towns in Israel. Israeli commanders said they believed that the violence had not yet reached its peak. A1 

Human rights groups and some countries, including the United States, criticized Israel after reports of excessive force by troops. A20
 
Serbs Promise a Crackdown
The Yugoslav government warned the opposition of "special measures" and prosecutions for those behind a spreading strike intended to oust President Slobodan Milosevic. A1
 
Suharto's Son Seeks Pardon
The youngest son of the former Indonesian president, Suharto, admitted corruption and asked for clemency to avoid an 18-month prison sentence imposed by the Supreme Court. A9
 
A Shake-Up in Taiwan
Prime Minister Tang Fei resigned, citing poor health. Mr. Tang, on the job for less than five months, announced his decision after a meeting with President Chen Shui-bian. Mr. Tang's deputy, Chang Chun-hsiung, was chosen to succeed him. A7
 
Lithuania to Return Scrolls
Parliament voted to return hundreds of Torah scrolls to Jewish communities around the world, ending years of debate over the texts. About 370 texts, mostly fragments, were recovered in Lithuania after the Holocaust and were hidden away during the decades of Soviet rule. A13
 
World Briefing A5
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Baseball Playoffs
The Seattle Mariners beat the Chicago White Sox, 7-4, in the first game of the three-of-five-game American League series. In the N.L., the St. Louis Cardinals beat the Atlanta Braves, 7-5. The Mets open against the San Francisco Giants today. D2
 
NATIONAL A22-33
 
Bush and Gore Face Off In First Campaign Debate
Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush met in Boston for their first presidential debate, arguing over issues that included taxes, health care and foreign policy. A1
 
More Visas for High-Tech
Congress passed a bill to increase significantly the number of visas for educated foreigners who temporarily fill specialized American jobs, largely in high-tech industries. The president is expected to sign it. A1
 
Consensus on Drunken Driving
House and Senate negotiators agreed to push for a tough national standard for drunken driving -- a blood-alcohol level of 0.08 percent -- threatening to withhold some federal highway aid from states that balk. A27
 
Use of Sobriety Checkpoints
The Supreme Court heard arguments on whether the police can add a trained dog to sobriety checkpoints to check cars for drugs. A27
 
Senate Hearing on Lee Case
Former government officials disagreed over whether Wen Ho Lee became the subject of an espionage investigation because of his ethnicity, and scientists debated the significance of the nuclear information he downloaded at Los Alamos. A24
 
HUD Takes Over Texas Agency
The Department of Housing and Urban Development seized control of a public housing authority in Texas, citing a pattern of discriminatory abuses dating to the 1960's. A22
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH
 
Child Born to Save Sister
American scientists used genetic tests to help a couple have a baby with the exact traits needed to provide a cell transplant to treat their seriously ill 6-year-old daughter. A24
 
ARTS E1-10
 
Judge Presses Auction House
A federal judge questioned Christie's good faith in refusing to answer some questions and ordered it to respond or face possible sanctions. C10
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-13
 
Suffolk Votes to Create Crime of Cell Phone D.W.T.
The Suffolk County Legislature voted to make driving while using a hand-held cell phone punishable by a $150 fine, unless the phone has an earpiece or works as a speakerphone. B1
 
Lennon's Killer Denied Parole
Mark David Chapman, 45, serving 20 years to life for murdering John Lennon in 1980, was denied parole after a hearing before the State Parole Board. He can reapply in two years. B1
 
Officer Linked to Drug Ring
A city police officer, Homero Zapata, 36, and his wife, Liliana Lopez-Zapata, 31, were arrested and charged with helping to launder more than $1 million for Colombian drug lords. B3
 
Priority on Church Finances
The new archbishop of New York, Edward M. Egan, hired a longtime former aide, Bernard E. Reidy, a layman who helped overhaul the finances of Archbishop Egan's former diocese, Bridgeport. B3
 
OBITUARIES B12
 
EDUCATION B13
 
Parent Views on Sex Education
A survey suggests that most parents want schools to offer more sex education to teenagers, including information on abstinence as well as birth control, and sexually transmitted disease, abortion and orientation. A1
 
Florida Vouchers Upheld
A Florida appellate court ruled that the state could use taxpayer-financed vouchers for students in poor-performing schools who cannot afford private-school tuition. A22
 
Superintendent Under Fire
Four of the nine members of Brooklyn's Community School Board 15 want Chancellor Harold O. Levy to consider firing the district's superintendent, Francis J. DeStefano, and several deputies following accusations of financial mismanagement and cuts in services in the district. B3
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-20
 
Fed Holds Rates, for Now
The Fed held interest rates steady, but warned that low unemployment and high oil prices could still lead to a jump in inflation. C1
 
The Nasdaq fell 113.07 points, or 3.2 percent, to 3,455.83, and the S.& P. 500 lost 9.77 points, to 1,426.46, but the Dow rose 19.61, to 10,719.74. C12
 
Time Warner-EMI Deal Weighed
European regulators are considering approving a $20 billion deal that would merge Time Warner's music division with EMI, which would lift a big barrier in Europe to the Time Warner-America Online deal. C1
 
Takeover Deal in Trouble
Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst and Bear, Stearns were said to be having trouble financing a $2.85 billion takeover bid for the Johns Manville building materials company because of concern over Manville's earnings. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
World Business W1-8
 
DINING F1-14
 
EDITORIAL A34-35
 
Editorials: The first presidential debate; Balkan machinations; restoring Wolfe.
Columns: Paul Krugman.
 
Crossword E6
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D8
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); LITHUANIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); INDONESIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: STATE PAROLE BOARD (58%); SUFFOLK COUNTY LEGISLATURE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE PAROLE BOARD (58%); SUFFOLK COUNTY LEGISLATURE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); LITHUANIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); INDONESIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BASEBALL (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (88%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (79%); RIOTS (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (77%); CORRUPTION (76%); GENOCIDE (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); DOGS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); PARDONS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION (69%); SPORTS (69%); SENTENCING (68%); APPEALS (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); RELIGION (66%); HOLOCAUST (65%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (50%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (50%); ESPIONAGE (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); AL GORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2000



93 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Yankees Only Raise More Questions

BYLINE: By IRA BERKOW 

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif.

 BODY:
LIKE Alice in Wonderland, the Yankees suddenly found themselves in a weird place last night. That is, leading in a game. After all, they hadn't been ahead in a ball game for what must have seemed to them like 40 years, though it was only since Sept. 25, when they briefly went ahead of the Tigers.
So it was hardly surprising last night when they gave up their 2-0 lead in the fifth, and went behind by 4-3 in the sixth, on the way to a 5-3 loss to the Oakland Athletics in Game 1 of their American League division series. Being on top on the scoreboard obviously gave the Yankees vertigo. The A's, for their part, a young, aggressive, confident team, were less than awed by the two-time defending world champions. 
 The Yankees, meanwhile, played a respectable game, which, after what they've gone through in the last three weeks, is wild praise.
While their ace, the stubble-bearded Roger Clemens, failed to hold the lead, even suffering the embarrassment of throwing a wild pitch to allow a runner to score from third, it was still a close game, none of those 17-2 or 15-3 routs they were growing accustomed to.
In fact the Yankees came into the game with huge question marks. Was this the end of the line, and would the A's become the New Bay Bombers and send the Old Yankees back to the Retirement Home that Ruth Built?
Right now, the jury is still out. The Yankees continued to have inconsistent hitting, and their pitching remains short of prodigious, and the A's pulled off a double steal with the Yanks asleep at the switch. Nonetheless, they were in the ballgame. They have lost the opening game of a postseason series before and still gone on to win it.
And to a man they had said that the past was not prologue, that the playoffs are a new season, but they have hardly established that as fact.
Let us return for a moment to that dreary piece of Gotham history: it was deep into September and the Yankees were playing as though someone were perpetrating a practical joke on them. It was as if they opened a door and a bucket of water fell on their heads. They took another step and a floor board smacked them in the nose. They turned to get out of there and walked into a wall.
They were inches from clinching the American League East title but couldn't consummate. And they came into the last weekend of the season with the possibility that they might not even make the playoffs.
"I called a team meeting and gave them a talk to try to relax them," Joe Torre, the Yankee manager, recalled. "Then they went out and got bombed the next two nights. So I said, 'Guys, since I got you so stimulated in my last talk, I'll do it again.' "
Through what was a period unprecedented in the annals of House of Horrors baseball, Torre tried to maintain his sense of humor, stopping short of the tactic used by Bobby Valentine, the Mets' manager, when his team went into a slump. Valentine donned a fake beard. "I didn't have to do that," the swarthy Torre said. "I already have a beard."
Not only did the Yankees' vaunted pitching suddenly collapse; so did their only slightly less vaunted hitting. "It looked like everybody they threw at us was Walter Johnson," the Yankee coach Don Zimmer said. And, it appeared, everybody the Yankees threw at people was Charlie Brown. And this against lowly Tampa Bay and Baltimore.
Despite all this, the Yankees, by virtue of a good start, managed to win the East but lost home-field advantage. They were staggering. No team had ever entered postseason play with such a run of bad tidings. From Sept. 13 on, the Yankees endeavored to establish the worst record in baseball -- 3-15, with seven straight losses at season's end.
And then the Yankees opened the playoffs against the team that had the best record in baseball since Sept. 13, 14-4.
"We had become a tense team in trying too hard to clinch the division title," Torre said. "But once we were in the playoffs, after the Red Sox lost, I felt the team in the last two games starting to be loose again."
The A's, however, were playing even looser. "They know no fear," Torre said.
Or as right fielder Paul O'Neill said, "They're a runaway train, and we've got to figure out a way to stop them."
But now the A's were leading by 5-3, with their ace reliever, Jason Isringhausen, on the mound and two outs and none on in the ninth. Scott Brosius, the last forlorn hope of the Yankees, grounded to short for a routine final out.
The Yankees, after having ballooned early, returned to that increasingly familiar feeling: deflation.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Roger Clemens (Vincent Laforet)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); 

CITY: OAKLAND, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES; OAKLAND ATHLETICS NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); OAKLAND A'S (83%); DETROIT TIGERS (57%); DETROIT TIGERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES; OAKLAND ATHLETICS NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); OAKLAND A'S (83%); DETROIT TIGERS (57%); DETROIT TIGERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; PLAYOFF GAMES BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (68%); 

PERSON: BERKOW, IRA WILLIAM ROGER 'ROGER' CLEMENS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2000



94 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 16430 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN;
Transcript of Debate Between Vice President Gore and Governor Bush

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of the presidential debate last night in Boston between Gov. George W. Bush of Texas and Vice President Al Gore, as recorded by The New York Times. The moderator was Jim Lehrer of PBS.
 
MR. LEHRER -- Good evening from the Clark Athletic Center at the University of Massachusetts in Boston. I'm Jim Lehrer of "The News Hour" on PBS and I welcome you to the first of three 90-minute debates between the Democratic candidate for president, Vice President Al Gore, and the Republican candidate, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas.
The debates are sponsored by the Commission on Presidential Debates and they will be conducted within formats and rules agreed to by the commission and the two campaigns. Tonight's will have the candidates at podiums. No answer to a question can exceed two minutes, rebuttals are limited to one minute. But as moderator, I have the option to follow up and to extend any particular give and take another three and a half minutes. But even then no single answer can exceed two minutes. 
 The candidates under their rules may not question each other directly. There will be no opening statements but each candidate may have up to two minutes for a closing statement. The questions and the subjects were chosen by me alone. I have told no one from the two campaigns or the commission or anyone else involved what they are. There's a small audience in the hall tonight. They are not here to participate, only to listen. I have asked and they have agreed to remain silent for the next 90 minutes except for right now when they will applaud as we welcome the two candidates, Governor Bush and Vice President Gore.
And now the first question. As determined by a flip of a coin it goes to Vice President Gore. Vice President Gore, you have questioned whether Governor Bush has the experience to be president of the United States. What exactly do you mean?
 
MR. GORE Well, Jim, first of all, I would like to thank the sponsors of this debate and the people of Boston for hosting the debate. I'd like to thank Governor Bush for participating and I'd like to say that I'm happy to be with Tipper and our family.
I have actually not questioned Governor Bush's experience. I have questioned his proposals and here's why. I think this is a very important moment for our country. We have achieved extraordinary prosperity and in this election America has to make an important choice: will we use our prosperity to enrich not just the few, but all of our families? I believe we have to make the right and responsible choices.
If I'm entrusted with the presidency here are the choices that I will make: I'll balance the budget every year. I will pay down the national debt. I will put Medicare and Social Security in a locked box and protect them. And I will cut taxes for middle-class families.
I believe it's important to resist the temptation to squander our surplus. If we make the right choices, we can have a prosperity that endures and enriches all of our people. If I'm entrusted with the presidency, I will help parents and strengthen families because, you know, if we have prosperity that grows and grows, we still won't be successful unless we strengthen families by, for example, insuring that children can always go to schools that are safe, by giving parents the tools to protect their children against cultural pollution. I will make sure that we invest in our country and our families and I mean investing in education, health care, the environment and -- and middle-class tax cuts and retirement security. That's my agenda and that's why I think that it's not just a question of experience.
 
MR. LEHRER Governor Bush, one-minute rebuttal.
 
MR. BUSH Well, we do come from different places. I come from West Texas, I've been a governor. A governor is the chief executive officer and learns how to set agendas.
And I think you're going to find the difference reflected in our budgets. I want to take one-half of the surplus and dedicate it to Social Security, one-quarter of the surplus for important projects and I want to send one-quarter of the surplus back to the people who pay the bills. I want everybody who pays taxes to have their tax rates cut.
And that stands in contrast to my worthy opponent's plan, which will increase the size of government dramatically. His plan is three times larger than President Clinton's proposed plan eight years ago. It's a plan that will have 200 new programs as well -- or expanded programs. It will create 20,000 new bureaucrats. In other words, it empowers Washington. And tonight you're going to hear that my passion and my vision is to empower Americans to be able to make decisions for themselves and their own lives.
 
MR. LEHRER So I take it by your answer then, Mr. Vice President, that in your interview recently with The New York Times when you said that you question whether or not Governor Bush was experienced enough to be president, you were talking about strictly policy differences.
 
MR. GORE Yes, Jim. I said that his tax cut plan, for example, raises the question of whether it's the right choice for the country and let me give you an example of what I mean.
Under Governor Bush's tax cut proposal, he would spend more money on tax cuts for the wealthiest 1 percent than all of the new spending that he proposes for education, health care, prescription drugs and national defense all combined. Now I think those are the wrong priorities.
Now under my proposal, for every dollar that I propose in spending for things like education and health care, I will put another dollar into middle-class tax cuts. And for every dollar that I spend in those two categories, I'll put two dollars toward paying down the national debt. I think it's very important to keep the debt going down and completely eliminate it.
And I also think it's very important to go to the next stage of welfare reform. Our country has cut the welfare rolls in half. I've fought hard from my days in the Senate and as vice president to cut the welfare rolls and we've moved millions of people in America into good jobs. But it's now time for the next stage of welfare reform and include fathers and not only mothers.
 
MR. LEHRER We're going to get to a lot of those issues -- yes, go ahead, Governor.
 
MR. BUSH Well let me just say that, obviously, tonight we're going to hear some phony numbers about what I think and what we ought to do.
People need to know that over the next 10 years there's going to be $25 trillion of revenue that comes into our treasury. And we anticipate spending $21 trillion. And my plan says, "why don't we pass $1.3 trillion of that back to the people who pay the bills?" Surely we can afford 5 percent of the $25 trillion that are coming to the treasury to the hard-working people who pay the bills. There's a difference of opinion.
My opponent thinks the government -- the surplus is the government's money. That's not what I think. I think it's the hard-working people in America's money and I want to share some of that money with you.
So you've got more money to build and save and dream for your families. It's a difference of opinion. It's the difference between government making decisions for you and you getting more of your money to make decisions for yourself.
 
MR. GOREJim.
 
MR. LEHRER Let me just follow up. One quick question. When you hear Vice President Gore question your experience, do you read it the same way? That he's talking about policy differences only?
 
MR. BUSH Yes. I take him for his word. I mean, I -- Look, I fully recognize I'm not of Washington. I'm from Texas. And he's got a lot of experience. But so do I. And I've been the chief executive officer of the second biggest state in the union. I've had a proud record of working with both Republicans and Democrats, which is what our nation needs. We need somebody who can come up to Washington and say, Look, let's forget all the politics and all the finger pointing and get some positive things done on Medicare and prescription drugs and Social Security. And so I take him for his word.
 
MR. GORE Jim, if I could just respond --
 
MR. LEHRER Quickly and then we need to move on. Yes, sir.
 
MR. GORE I know that. The governor used the phrase "phony numbers," but if you look at the plan and add the numbers up, these numbers are correct. He spends more money for tax cuts for the wealthiest 1 percent than all of his new spending proposals for health care, prescription drugs, education and national defense all combined. I agree that the surplus is the American people's money. It's your money. That's why I don't think we should give nearly half of it to the wealthiest 1 percent, because the other 99 percent have had an awful lot to do with building this surplus and our prosperity.
 
MR. LEHRER All right. Three and a half minutes is up. New question.
 
MR. BUSH I hope it's about wealthy people.
 
MR. LEHRER Governor Bush, you have questioned -- this is a companion question to the question I asked Vice President Gore. You have questioned whether Vice President Gore has demonstrated the leadership qualities necessary to be president of the United States. What do you mean by that?
 
MR. BUSH Well, here's what I've said. I've said, Jim -- I've said that eight years ago they campaigned on prescription drugs for seniors. And four years ago they campaigned on getting prescription drugs for seniors. And now they're campaigning on getting prescription drugs for seniors. It seems like they can't get it done. Now, they may blame other folks, but it's time to get somebody in Washington who is going to work with both Republicans and Democrats to get some positive things done when it comes to our seniors.
And so what I've said is there's been some missed opportunities. They've had a chance. They've had a chance to form consensus. I've got a plan on Medicare, for example, that's a two-stage plan, that says we're going to have immediate help for seniors and what I call immediate helping hand, a $48 billion program.
But I also want to say to seniors, if you're happy with Medicare the way it is, fine, you can stay in the program. But we're going to give you additional choices, just like they give federal employees in the federal employee health plan. Federal employees have got a variety of choices from which to choose, so should seniors.
And my point has been, as opposed to politicizing an issue like Medicare, in other words, holding it up as an issue, hoping somebody bites and then try to clobber them over the head with it for political purposes, this year in the year 2000 it's time to say let's get it done, once and for all. And that's what I had been critical about the administration for.
Same with Social Security. I think there was a good opportunity to bring Republicans and Democrats together to reform the Social Security system so the seniors will never go without, those on Social Security today will have their promise made. But also to give younger workers the option at their choice of being able to manage some of their own money in the private sector to make sure there's a Social Security system around tomorrow.
There's a lot of young workers at our rallies we go to that when they hear that I'm going to trust them at their option to be able to manage, under certain guidelines, some of their own money to get a better rate of return so that they'll have a retirement plan in the future, they begin to nod their heads. And they want a different attitude in Washington.
 
MR. LEHRER One minute rebuttal, Vice President Gore.
 
MR. GORE Well -- well, Jim, under my plan all seniors will get prescription drugs under Medicare. The governor has described Medicare as a government H.M.O. It's not and let me explain the difference.
Under the Medicare prescription drug proposal I'm making here's how it works. You go to your own doctor and your doctor chooses your prescription and no H.M.O. or insurance company can take those choices away from you. Then you go to your own pharmacy, you fill the prescription and Medicare pays half the cost. If you're in a very poor family or if you have very high costs, Medicare will pay all the costs. A $25 premium and much better benefits than you can possibly find in the private sector.
Now here's the contrast: 95 percent of all seniors would get no help whatsoever under my opponent's plan for the first four or five years. Now, one thing I don't understand, Jim, is why is it that the wealthiest 1 percent get their tax cuts the first year, but 95 percent of seniors have to wait four to five years before they get a single penny?
 
MR. LEHRER Governor?
 
MR. BUSH I guess my answer to that is the man's running on Medi-scare, trying to frighten people in the voting booth. That's just not the way -- the way I think and that's just not my intentions and it's not my plan. I want all seniors to have prescription drugs and Medicare. We need to reform Medicare. There've been an opportunity to do so, but this administration has failed to do it. And so seniors are going to have not only a Medicare plan where the poor seniors would have their prescription drugs played -- paid for. But there will be a variety of options.
The current system today has meant a lot for a lot of seniors and I -- I really appreciate the -- the intentions of the current system. And as I mentioned, if you're happy with the system, you can stay in it. But there's a lot of procedures that have not kept up in Medicare with the -- with the current times. There's no prescription drug benefits, there's no drug therapies, there's no preventing medicines, there's no vision care. I mean, we need to have a modern system to help seniors. And the idea of supporting a federally controlled 132,000-page document bureaucracy as being a compassionate way for seniors and the only compassionate source of care for seniors is just not my vision.
I believe we ought to give seniors more options. I believe we ought to make the system work better. But I know this, I know it's going to require a different kind of leader to go to Washington to say to both Republicans and Democrats, let's come together. You've had your chance, Vice President, you've been there for eight years and nothing has been done. And my point is is that my plan not only trusts seniors with options, my plan sets aside $3.4 trillion for Medicare over the next 10 years. My plan also says it's going to require a new approach in Washington, D.C. It's going to require somebody who can work across the partisan divide.
 
MR. GORE If I could respond to that. Jim, under my plan, I will put Medicare in an ironclad lock box and prevent the money from being used for anything other than Medicare. The governor has declined to endorse that idea even though the Republican as well as Democratic leaders of Congress have endorsed it. I'd be interested if, this -- if he would, this evening, say that he would put Medicare in a lock box. I don't think he will because under his plan, if you work out the numbers, $100 billion comes out of Medicare just for the wealthiest 1 percent in the tax cut.
Now, here is the difference: Some people who say the word reform actually mean cuts. Under the governor's plan, if you kept the same fee for service that you have now under Medicare, your premiums would go up by between 18 and 47 percent -- and that's the study of the Congressional plan that he's modeled his proposal on -- by the Medicare actuaries.
Let me just give you one quick example. There's a man here tonight named George McKinney from Milwaukee. He's 70 years old. He has high blood pressure. His wife has heart trouble. They have income of $25,000 a year. They cannot pay for their prescription drugs. And so they're some of the ones that go to Canada regularly in order to get their prescription drugs.
Under my plan, half of their costs would be paid right away.
Under Governor Bush's plan, they would get not one penny for four to five years and then they would be forced to go into an H.M.O. or to an insurance company and ask them for coverage. But there'd be no limit on the premiums or the deductibles or any of the terms and conditions.
 
MR. BUSH I cannot let this go by -- the old-style Washington politics of we're going to scare you in the voting booth. Under my plan, the man gets immediate help with prescription drugs. It's called immediate helping hand. Instead of squabbling and finger-pointing, he gets immediate help.
Let me say something. Now I understand --
 
MR. LEHRER Excuse me, governor.
 
MR. GORE Jim, can I --
 
MR. LEHRER All right, three and a half minutes is up. But we'll --
 
MR. GORE Could I make one other point?
 
MR. BUSH Wait a minute.
 
MR. GORE They get $25,000 a year income. That makes them ineligible.
 
MR. BUSH Look, this is a man, he's got great numbers. He talks about numbers. I'm beginning to think not only did he invent the Internet, but he invented the calculator. It's fuzzy math. It's a scaring -- trying to scare people in the voting booth. Under my tax plan, that he continues to criticize, I set a third -- the federal government should take no more than a third of anybody's check. But I also drop the bottom rate from 15 percent to 10 percent because by far the vast majority of the help goes to the people at the bottom end of the economic ladder. If you're a family of four in Massachusetts making $50,000 you get a 50 percent cut in the federal income taxes you pay. It's from 4,000 to about 2,000. Now, the difference in our plans is I want that 2,000 to go to you, and the vice president would like to be spending the 2,000 on your behalf.
 
MR. LEHRER One quick thing. Gentlemen, these are your rules. I'm doing my best -- we're way over the three and a half. I have no problems with it, but we -- do you want to have a quick response and then we'll move on. We're already almost five minutes on this.
 
MR. GORE Yeah. I mean, it's just clear, you can go to the Web site and look, if you make more than $25,000 a year, you don't get a penny of help under the Bush prescription drug proposal for at least four to five years and then you're pushed into a Medicare, into an H.M.O. or an insurance company plan and there's no limit on the premiums or the deductibles or any of the conditions. And the insurance companies say it won't work and they won't offer these plans.
 
MR. LEHRER Let me ask you both this and we'll move on, on this subject. As a practical matter, both of you want to bring prescription drugs to seniors, correct?
 
MR. BUSH. Correct.
 
MR. GORE Correct. But the difference is -- the difference is I want to bring it to 100 percent and he brings it only to 5 percent.
 
MR. BUSH That's just totally false.
 
MR. LEHRER What difference --
 
MR. BUSH Wait a minute. It's just totally false for him to stand up here and say that. Let me make sure the seniors hear me loud and clear. They've had their chance to get something done. I'm going to work with both Republicans and Democrats to reform the system. All seniors will be covered. All poor seniors will have their prescription drugs paid for. In the meantime, we're going to have a plan to help poor seniors. And in the meantime could be one year or two years. I don't know --
 
MR. GORE O.K. Let me call your attention to the key word there. He said all poor seniors.
 
MR. BUSH No, wait a minute. All seniors are covered under prescription drugs in my plan.
 
MR. GORE In the first year? In the first year?
 
MR. BUSH If we can get it done in the first year, you bet. Yours is phased in in eight years.
 
MR. GORE No, no, no. It's a two-phase plan, Jim. And for the first four years -- it takes a year to pass it -- and then for the first four years only the poor are covered. Middle-class seniors like George McKinney and his wife are not covered for four to five years.
 
MR. LEHRER I've got an idea.
 
MR. GORE O.K.
 
MR. LEHRER If you have any more to say about this you can say it in your closing statement. We'll move on. O.K.?
New question. Vice President Gore, how would you contrast your approach to preventing future, future oil price and supply problems like we have now to the approach of Governor Bush?
 
MR. GORE Excellent question and here's the simple difference. My plan has not only a short-term component but also a long-term component. And it focuses not only on increasing the supply, which I think we have to do, but also on working on the consumption side.
Now in the short term, we have to free ourselves from the domination of the big oil companies that have the ability to manipulate the price, from OPEC when they want to raise the price. And in the long term, we have to give new incentives for the development of domestic resources like deep gas in the Western Gulf, like stripper wells for oil, but also renewable sources of energy. And domestic sources that are cleaner and better.
And I'm proposing a plan that will give tax credits and tax incentives for the rapid development of new kinds of cars and trucks and buses and factories and boilers and furnaces that don't have as much pollution, that don't burn as much energy and that help us get out on the cutting edge of the new technologies that will create millions of new jobs. Because when we sell these new products here, we'll then be able to sell them overseas. And there's a ravenous demand for them overseas.
Now another big difference is Governor Bush is proposing to open up our, some of our most precious environmental treasures, like the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, to the big oil companies to go in and start producing oil there. I think that is the wrong choice. It would only give us a few months worth of oil and the oil wouldn't start flowing for many years into the future. And I don't think it's a fair price to pay to destroy precious parts of America's environment.
We have to bet on the future and move beyond the current technologies to have a whole new generation of more efficient, cleaner energy technologies.
 
MR. LEHRER Governor Bush, one minute.
 
MR. BUSH Well, it's an issue I know a lot about. I was a small oil person for a while in West Texas. This is an administration that's had no plan. And all of a sudden the results of having no plan have caught up with America. First and foremost, we've got to make sure we fully fund Liheap, which is a way to help low-income folks, particularly here in the East, pay for their high, high fuel bills.
Secondly, we need an active exploration program in America. The only way to become less dependent on foreign sources of crude oil is to explore at home. And you bet I want to open up a small part of -- a part of Alaska because when that field is online it will produce a million barrels a day. Today we import a million barrels from Saddam Hussein. I would rather that a million come from our own hemisphere, our own country as opposed from Saddam Hussein. I want to build more pipelines to move natural gas throughout this hemisphere. I want to develop the coal resources in America and have coal -- clean coal technologies. We've got abundant supplies of energy here in America and we better get after it and better start exploring it, otherwise we're going to be in deep trouble in the future because of our dependency upon foreign sources of crude.
 
MR. LEHRER So if somebody is watching tonight, listening to what the two of you just said, is it fair to say, O.K., the differences between Vice President Gore and George W. Bush -- Governor Bush -- are the following. You are for doing something on the consumption end, you're for doing something on the production and drilling --
 
MR. GORE I -- I'm, let me clarify. I'm for doing something both on the supply side and production side, and on the consumption side. And let me say that I found one thing in Governor Bush's answer that we certainly agree on and that's the Low Income Heating Assistance Program, and I commend you for supporting that. I worked to -- to -- to get $400 million just a couple of weeks ago and to establish a permanent home heating oil reserve here in the Northeast.
Now, as for the proposals that I've worked for for renewables and conservation and efficiency and the new technologies, the fact is for the last few years in the Congress we faced a lot of opposition to them. They've only -- they've only approved about 10 percent of the agenda that I've helped to -- to send up there. And I think that we need to get serious about this energy crisis both in the Congress and in -- in the White House. And if you entrust me with the presidency, I will tackle this problem and focus on new technologies that will make us less dependent on big oil or foreign oil.
 
MR. LEHRER How would you draw the difference, governor?
 
MR. BUSH Well, I would first say that he should have been tackling it for the last seven years. And secondly, the difference is is that we need to explore at home. And the vice president doesn't believe in exploration, for example, in Alaska. There's a lot of shut-in gas that we need to be moving out of Alaska by pipeline.
There's an interesting issue up in the Northwest as well. And that is whether or not we remove dams that produce hydroelectric energy. I'm against removing dams in the Northwest. I don't know where the vice president stands. But that's a renewable source of energy we need to keep in line.
I was in coal country yesterday, in West Virginia. There's an abundant supply of coal in America. I know we can do a better job of clean coal technologies. I'm going to ask the Congress for $2 billion to make sure that we have the cleanest coal technologies in the world.
My answer to you is is that in the short term, we need to get after it here in America. We need to explore our resources and we need to develop our reservoirs of domestic production.
We also need to have a hemispheric energy policy where Canada and Mexico and the United States come together. I brought this up recently with Vicente Fox who's the newly elected president. He's a man I know from Mexico. And I talked about how best to be able to expedite the exploration of natural gas in Mexico and transport it up to the United States so we become less dependent on foreign sources of crude oil.
This is a major problem facing America. The administration did not deal with it. It's time for a new administration to deal with the energy problem.
 
MR. GORE If I -- just briefly, Jim, I know. I found a couple of other things that we agree on. And we may not find that many this evening so I wanted to emphasize them.
I strongly support new investments in clean coal technology. I made a proposal three months ago on this. And also domestic exploration -- yes. But not in the environmental treasures of our country. We don't have to do that. That's the wrong choice. I know the oil companies have been itching to do that. But it is not the right thing for the future.
 
MR. BUSHNo, it's the right thing for the consumers. Less dependency upon foreign sources of crude is good for consumers. And we can do so in an environmentally friendly way.
 
MR. GORE Well, can I have the last word on this?
 
MR. LEHRER New question.
 
MR. GORE O.K. Go ahead.
 
MR. LEHRER New question, new subject.
 
MR. GORE All right.
 
MR. LEHRER Governor Bush, if elected president, would you try to overturn the F.D.A.'s approval last week of the abortion pill RU-486?
 
MR. BUSH I don't think a president can do that. I was disappointed in the ruling because I think abortions ought to be more rare in America. And I'm worried that that pill will create more abortion, will cause more people to have abortions. This is a very important topic and it's a very sensitive topic because a lot of good people disagree on the issue. I think what the next president ought to do is to promote a cultural life in America, is a life of the elderly and life of those living all across the country, life of the unborn. As a matter of fact, I think a noble goal for this country is that every child, born and unborn, ought to be protected in law and welcomed into life. But I know we've got to change a lot of minds before we -- before we get there in America. What I do believe is we can find good common ground on issues like parental notification or parental consent. And I know we need to ban partial birth abortions. This is a place where my opponent and I have strong disagreements. That I believe banning partial birth abortion would be a positive step toward reducing the number of abortions in America. This is an issue that -- that's going to require a new attitude. We've been battling over abortion for a long period of time.
Surely this nation can come together to promote the value of life. Surely we can fight off these laws that will encourage doctors or to allow doctors to take the lives of our seniors. Surely we can have -- work together to create a cultural life so some of these youngsters who feel like they can take a neighbor's life with a gun will understand that that's not the way America is meant to be. And surely we can find common ground to reduce the number of abortions in America.
As to the drug itself, I mentioned I was disappointed. I hope -- and I'm -- I hope the F.D.A. took its time to make sure that American women will be safe who use this -- who use this drug.
 
MR. LEHRER Vice President Gore?
 
MR. GORE Well, Jim, the F.D.A. took 12 years, and I do support that decision. They determined it was medically safe for the women who used that drug. Now, this is indeed a very important issue. First of all, on the issue of partial-birth or so-called late-term abortion, I would sign a law banning that procedure, provided that doctors have the ability to save a woman's life or to act if her health is severely at risk.
And that's not the main issue. The main issue is whether or not the Roe v. Wade decision's going to be overturned. I support a woman's right to choose. My opponent does not. It is important because the next president is going to appoint three, maybe even four justices of the Supreme Court. And Governor Bush has declared to the antichoice groups that he will appoint justices in the mold of Scalia and Clarence Thomas who are known for being the most vigorous opponents of a woman's right to choose.
Here's the difference. He trusts the government to order a woman to do what it thinks she ought to do. I trust women to make the decisions that affect their lives, their destinies and their bodies. And I think a woman's right to choose ought to be protected and defended.
 
MR. LEHRERGovernor, I, we'll go to the Supreme Court question in a moment, but make sure I understand your position on RU-486. If you're elected president, will you not throw appointments to the F.D.A., you won't support legislation to overturn this?
 
MR. BUSH I don't think a president can unilaterally overturn it. I think the F.D.A.'s made its decision.
 
MR. LEHRER You wouldn't throw appointments to the F.D.A. and ask them to reappraise this?
 
MR. BUSH No. I think once the decision's made, it's been made, unless it's proven to be unsafe to women.
 
MR. GORE Well, Jim, you know, the question you asked, if I heard you correctly, was would he support legislation to overturn it. And if I heard the statement day before yesterday, you said you would order -- he said he would order his F.D.A. appointee to review the decision. Now, that sounds to me a little bit different. And I just think that we ought to support the decision.
 
MR. BUSH I said I would make sure that women would be safe who used the drug.
 
MR. LEHRER All right, on the -- on the Supreme Court question, should a voter assume you're pro-life, you've just stated your position.
 
MR. BUSH I am pro-life.
 
MR. LEHRER Should a voter assumed that all judicial appointments you made to the Supreme Court or any other court, federal court, will also be pro-life?
 
MR. BUSH Voters should assume that I have no litmus test on that issue or any other issue. But the voters will know I'll put competent judges on the bench, people who will strictly interpret the Constitution and will not use the bench to write social policy. And that's going to be a big difference between my opponent and me.
I -- I believe that -- I believe that the judges ought not to take the place of the legislative branch of government, that they're appointed for life and that they ought to look at the Constitution as sacred. They -- they shouldn't misuse their bench. I don't believe in liberal activist judges. I believe in -- I believe in strict constructionists. And those are the kind of judges I will appoint.
I've -- I've named four Supreme Court judges in the state of Texas and I would ask the people to check our their qualifications, their -- their deliberations, they're good solid men and women who have made good, sound judgments on behalf of the people of Texas.
 
MR. LEHRER What kind of appointments should they expect from you, Vice President Gore?
 
MR. GORE Both of us use similar language to reach a -- an exactly opposite outcome. I don't favor litmus tests but I know that there are ways to assess how a potential justice interprets the Constitution and in my view the Constitution ought to be interpreted as a document that grows with the -- with -- with our country and our history.
And I -- I believe, for example, that there is a right of privacy in the Fourth Amendment and when the phrase 'a strict constructionist' is used and when the names of Scalia and Thomas are used as benchmarks for who would be appointed, those are -- those are code words and nobody should mistake this for saying that the governor would appoint people who would overturn Roe v. Wade. I mean, just -- it's very clear to me.
And I would appoint people who have a philosophy that I think would make it quite likely that they would uphold Roe v. Wade.
 
MR. LEHRER Is the vice president right? Is that a code word for overturning Roe v. Wade?
 
MR. BUSHSounds like the vice president is not very right many times tonight. I just told you the criteria on which I'll appoint judges. I've had a record of appointing judges in the state of Texas, that's what a governor gets to do. A governor gets to name supreme court judges and --
 
MR. LEHRER All right --
 
MR. BUSH He also reads all kinds of things into my tax plan and to my Medicare plan. And I just want the viewers out there to listen to what I have to say about it.
 
MR. GORE That's a yes, it is a code.
 
MR. LEHRER Reverse the question. What code phrases should we read by what you said about what kind of people you will appoint to the U.S. Supreme --
 
MR. GORE It'd be very likely that they'd uphold Roe v. Wade, but I do believe it's wrong to use a litmus test. But if you look at the history of a lower court judge's rulings, you can get a pretty good idea of how they're going to interpret questions. Now, a lot of questions are of first impression, and these questions that have been seen many times come up in a new context and so, but, you know, this is a very important issue, because a lot of young women in this country take this right for granted and it could be lost. It is on the ballot in this election, make no mistake about it.
 
MR. BUSH I'll tell you what kind of judges he'll put on there. He'll put liberal, activist judges who will use their bench to subvert the legislature. That's what he'll do.
 
MR. GORE That's not right.
 
MR. LEHRER New subject, new question. Vice President Gore, if President Milosevic of Yugoslavia refuses to accept the election results and leave office, what action, if any, should the United States take to get him out of there?
 
MR. GORE Well, Milosevic has lost the election. His opponent, Kostunica, has won the election. It's overwhelming. Milosevic's government refuses to release the vote count. There's now a general strike going on. They're demonstrating. I think we should support the people of Serbia, and the, Yugoslavia, as they call Serbia plus Montenegro, and put pressure in every way possible to recognize the lawful outcome of the election. The people of Serbia have acted very bravely in kicking this guy out of office. Now he is trying to not release the votes, and then go straight to a so-called run-off election without even announcing the results of the first vote. Now, we've made it clear, along with our allies, that when Milosevic leaves, then Serbia will be able to have a more normal relationship with the rest of the world. That is a very strong incentive that we have given them to do the right thing.
Bear in mind, also, Milosevic has been indicted as a war criminal and he should be held accountable for his actions. Now, we have to take measured steps, because the sentiment within Serbia is, for understandable reasons, still against the United States because their nationalism has led, even if they don't like Milosevic, they still have some feelings lingering from the NATO action there. So we have to be intelligent in the way we go about it. But make no mistake about it, we should do everything we can to see that the will of the Serbian people, expressed in this extraordinary election, is done. And I hope that he'll be out of office very shortly.
 
MR. LEHRER Governor Bush, one minute.
 
MR. BUSH Well, I'm pleased with the results of the election, as the vice president is. It's time for the man to go. And it means that the United States must have a strong diplomatic hand with our friends in NATO. That's why it's important to make sure our alliances are as strong as they possibly can be to keep the pressure on Mr. Milosevic.
But this would be an interesting moment for the Russians to step up and lead as well. It would be a wonderful time for the president of Russia to step into the Balkans and convince Mr. Milosevic it's in his best interest and his country's best interest to leave office. The Russians have got a lot of sway in that part of the world and we'd like to see them use that sway to encourage democracy to take hold.
And so it's an encouraging election. It's time for the man to leave.
 
MR. LEHRER But what if he doesn't leave, Mr. Vice -- what if all the things, all the diplomatic efforts, all the pressure from all over the world and he still doesn't go? Is this the kind of thing, to be specific, that you as president would consider the use of U.S. military force to get him gone?
 
MR. GORE In this particular situation, no. Bear in mind that we have a lot of sanctions enforced against Serbia right now. And the people of Serbia know that they can escape all those sanctions if this guy is turned out of power.
Now I understand what the governor has said about asking the Russians to be involved and under some circumstances that might be a good idea. But being as they have not yet been willing to recognize Kostunica as the lawful winner of the election, I'm not sure that it's right for us to invite the president of Russia to mediate this dispute there because we might not like the result that comes out of that.
They currently favor going forward with a run-off election. I think that's the wrong thing. I think the governor's instinct is not necessarily bad because we have worked with the Russians in a constructive way in Kosovo, for example, to end the conflict there. But I think we need to be very careful in the present situation before we invite the Russians to play the lead role in mediating.
 
MR. BUSH Well, obviously we wouldn't use the Russians if they didn't agree with our answer, Mr. Vice President.
 
MR. GORE Well, they don't.
 
MR. BUSH But let me say this to you. I wouldn't use force. I wouldn't use force.
 
MR. LEHRER You wouldn't use force?
 
MR. BUSH No.
 
MR. LEHRER Why not?
 
MR. BUSH Because it's not in our national interests to use force in this case. I would keep pressure. I would use diplomacy. There's a difference between what the president did, who I supported, in Kosovo and this. And it's up for the people in this region to figure out how to take control of their country.
 
MR. LEHRER New question. How would you go about, as president, deciding when it was in the national interest to use U.S. force? General.
 
MR. BUSH Well, if it's in our vital national interests and that means whether or not our territory, our -- our -- our -- our territory is threatened or people could be harmed, whether or not our alliances, our defense alliances, are threatened, whether or not our friends in the Middle East are threatened. That would be a time to seriously consider the use of force.
Secondly, whether or not the mission was clear, whether or not it was a clear understanding as to what the -- what the mission would be.
Thirdly, whether or not we were prepared and trained to -- to win, whether or not our forces were of high moral and high standing and well equipped.
And finally, whether or not there was an exit strategy. I would take the use of force very seriously. I would be guarded in my approach. I don't think we can be all things to all people in the world.
I think we've got to be very careful when we commit our troops. The vice president and I have a disagreement about the use of troops. He believes in national building. I would be very careful about using our troops as nation builders.
I believe the role of the military is to fight and win war and therefore prevent war from happening in the first place. And so I'd take my -- I'd take my -- my responsibility seriously. And it starts with making sure we rebuild our military power. Moral in today's military -- we're having trouble meeting recruiting goals. We met the goals this year but in the previous years we have not met recruiting goals.
Some of our troops are not well -- well-equipped. I believe we're overextended in too many places. And -- and therefore I want to rebuild the military power. It starts with a billion-dollar pay raise for the men and women who wear the uniform, a billion dollars more than the president recently signed into law, it's to make sure our troops are well-housed and well-equipped, bonus plans to keep some of our high-skilled folks in the services. And a commander in chief who clearly sets the mission. And the mission is to fight and win war and therefore prevent war from happening in the first place.
 
MR. LEHRER Vice President Gore, one minute.
 
MR. GORE Let me tell you what I'll do. First of all, I want to make it clear, our military is the strongest, best trained, best equipped, best led fighting force in the world and in the history of the world. Nobody should have any doubt about that, least of all our adversaries or potential adversaries.
I -- if you entrust me with the presidency, I will do whatever is necessary in order to make sure our forces stay the strongest in the world. In fact, in my 10-year budget proposal I have set aside more than twice as much for this purpose as Governor Bush has in his proposal.
Now, I think we should be reluctant to get involved in someplace in a foreign country. But if our national security is at stake, if we have allies, if we've tried every other course, if we're sure military action will succeed and if the costs are proportionate to the benefits, we should get involved.
Now just because we can't -- don't want to get involved everywhere doesn't mean we should back off anywhere it comes up. And I disagree with the fact -- with the proposal that maybe only when oil supplies are at stake that our national security is at risk. I think that -- that there are situations like in Bosnia or Kosovo where there's a genocide where our national security is at stake there.
 
MR. LEHRER Governor.
 
MR. BUSH I agree that our military's the strongest in the world today. That's not the question. The question is it will be the strongest in years to come. And the warning signs are real. Everywhere I go around the campaign trail, I see people who -- moms and dads whose son or daughter may wear the uniform. And they tell me about how discouraged their son or daughter may be. A recent poll was taken amongst 1,000 enlisted personnel, as well as officers, over half of whom are going to leave the service when their time of enlistment is up.
The captains are leaving the service. There is a problem. And it's going to require a new commander in chief to rebuild the military power. The other day I was honored to be flanked by Colin Powell and Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf, who stood by my side and agreed with me. They said we can, even though we were the strongest military, that if we don't do something quickly, we don't have a clearer vision of the military, we could -- if we don't stop extending our troops all around the world, and nation-building missions, then we're going to have a serious problem coming down the road. And I'm going to prevent that. I'm going to rebuild our military power. It's one of the major priorities of my administration.
 
MR. LEHRER Vice President Gore, how should the voters go about deciding which one of you is better suited to make the kinds of decisions we've been -- whether it's Milosevic or whether it's whatever, in the military and foreign policy area?
 
MR. GORE Well they should look at our proposals and look at us as people and make up their own minds. When I was a young man I volunteered for the Army. I served my country in Vietnam. My father was a senator who strongly opposed the Vietnam War. I went to college in this great city. And most of my peers felt against the war as I did. But I went anyway. Because I knew if I didn't somebody else, in the small town of Carthage, Tenn., would have to go in my place.
I served for eight years in the House of Representatives and I served on the intelligence committee, specialized in looking at arms control. I served for eight years in the United States Senate and served on the armed services committee. For the last eight years I've served on the National Security Council. And when the conflict came up in Bosnia, I saw a genocide in the heart of Europe with the most violent war on the continent of Europe since World War II. Look, that's where World War I started -- in the Balkans. My uncle was a victim of poison gas there. Millions of Americans saw the results of that conflict. We have to be willing to make good, sound judgments. And incidentally, I know the value of making sure our troops have the latest technology. The governor's proposed skipping the next generation of weapons. I think that's a big mistake. Because I think we have to stay at the cutting edge.
 
MR. LEHRER Governor, how would you advise the voters to make the decision on this issue?
 
MR. BUSH I think you got to look at how one has handled responsibility in office. Whether or not -- same in domestic policy as well, Jim. Whether or not you've got the capacity to convince people to follow. Whether or not one makes decisions based upon sound principles. Or whether or not you rely upon polls and focus groups on how to decide what the course of action is. We've got too much polling and focus groups going on in Washington today. We need decisions made on sound principles.
I've been the governor of a big state. I think one of the hallmarks of my relationship in Austin, Tex., is that I've the capacity to work with both Republicans and Democrats. I think that's an important part of leadership. I think of what it means to build consensus. I've shown I know how to do so. As a matter of fact, tonight in the audience there's one elected state senator who's a Democrat, a former state rep who's a Democrat, a couple of -- one statewide officer's a Democrat, I mean, there's a lot of Democrats who are here in --
 
MR. LEHRER Go ahead, go ahead.
 
MR. BUSH Because they want to show their support that shows I know how to lead and that -- so the fundamental answer to your question, who can lead, and who has shown the ability to get things done?
 
MR. GORE If I could say --
 
MR. LEHRER All right, we're way over the three and a half minutes. Go ahead. On this --
 
MR. GORE I think one of the key points in foreign policy and national security policy is the need to re-establish the old-fashioned principle that politics ought to stop at the water's edge. When I was in the United States Congress, I worked with former President Reagan to modernize our strategic weaponry and to pursue arms control in a responsible way. When I was in the United States Senate, I worked with former President Bush, your father, and was one of only a few Democrats in the Senate to support the Persian Gulf War. I think bipartisanship is a national asset and we have to find ways to re-establish it in foreign policy and national security policy.
 
MR. LEHRER In a word, do you have a problem with that?
 
MR. BUSH Yeah, why haven't they done it in seven years?
 
MR. LEHRER New subject, new question. Should the voters of this election, Vice President Gore, see this on domestic -- in the domestic area as a major choice between competing political philosophies?
 
MR. GORE Oh, absolutely. This is a very important moment in the history of our country. Look, we've got the biggest surpluses in all of American history. The key question that has to be answered in this election is will we use that prosperity wisely in a way that benefits all of our people and doesn't go just to the few?
Almost half of all the tax cut benefits, as I said, under Governor Bush's plan go to the wealthiest 1 percent. I think we have to make the right and responsible choices. I think we have to invest in education, protecting the environment, health care, a prescription drug benefit that goes to all seniors, not just to the poor, under Medicare, not relying on H.M.O.s and insurance companies.
I think that we have to help parents and strengthen families by dealing with the kind of inappropriate entertainment material that families are just heartsick that their children are exposed to. I think we have got to have welfare reform taken to the next stage. I think that we have got to balance the budget every single year, pay down the national debt, and in fact under my proposal, the national debt will be completely eliminated by the year 2012. I think we need to put Medicare and Social Security in a lockbox. The governor will not put Medicare in a lockbox. I don't think it should be used as a piggy bank for other programs. I think it needs to be moved out of the budget and protected. I'll veto anything that takes money out of Social Security or Medicare or anything other than Social Security or Medicare.
Now the priorities are just very different. I'll give you a couple of examples. For every new dollar that I propose for spending on health care, Governor Bush spends three dollars for a tax cut for the wealthiest 1 percent. Now for every dollar that I propose to spend on education, he's spends five dollars on a tax cut for the wealthiest 1 percent. Those are very clear differences.
 
MR. LEHRER Governor, one minute.
 
MR. BUSH Man's practicing fuzzy math again. There's differences. Under Vice President Gore's plan he's going to grow the federal government in the largest increase since Lyndon Baines Johnson in 1965. We're talking about a massive government, folks. We're talking about adding to or -- or increasing 200 new programs, 200 programs, 20,000 new bureaucrats. Imagine how many I.R.S. agents it's going to take to be able to figure out his targeted tax cut for the middle class that excludes 50 million Americans.
There is a huge difference in this campaign. He says he's going to give you tax cuts. Fifty million of you won't receive it. He said in his speech he wants to make sure the right people get tax relief. That's not the role of a president to decide right and wrong. Everybody who pays taxes ought to get tax relief. After my plan is in place the wealthy -- wealthiest Americans will pay a higher percentage of taxes than they do today. And the poorest of Americans, 6 million families, 7 million people, won't pay any tax at all.
It is a huge difference. It's the difference between big, exploding federal government that wants to think on your behalf and a plan that meets priorities and liberates working people to be able to make decisions on your own.
 
MR. GORE Let me just say, Jim, you haven't heard the governor deny these numbers. He's called them phony, he's called them fuzzy, but the fact remains almost 30 percent of his proposed tax cut goes only to Americans that make more than $1 million per year.
 
MR. LEHRER That's --
 
MR. GORE More money goes to the --
 
MR. LEHRER Wait a minute.
 
MR.GORE Can I have a rebuttal here?
 
MR. LEHRER Sure, but I just want to see if he -- if -- if he buys that.
 
MR. BUSH Let me just tell you what the facts are. The facts are after my plan the wealthiest of Americans pay more taxes than they -- of the percentage of the whole than they do today.
Secondly, if you're a family of four making $50,000 in Massachusetts, you get a 50-percent tax cut. Let me give you one example: the Strunk family in Allentown, Pa.; I campaigned with them the other day. They make $51,000 combined income. They pay about $3,800 in taxes -- or $3,500 in taxes. Under my plan they get $1,800 of tax relief. Under Vice President Gore's plan they get $145 of tax relief. Now you tell me who stands on the side of the rich.
 
MR. GORE Look he --
 
MR. BUSH You ask the Strunks, you ask the Strunks --
 
MR. GORE If I could get my --
 
MR. BUSH -- whose plan, it makes more sense. And there's a difference of opinion. He would rather spend the Strunks's $1,800 and I would rather the Strunks spend their own money.
 
MR. LEHRER You see it that way, Vice President Gore?
 
MR. GORE No, I don't. And I'm not going to go to -- to -- to calling names on his facts. I'm just going to tell you what the real facts are. The analysis that he's talking about leaves out more than half of the tax cuts that I have proposed. And if you just add the numbers up -- he still hasn't denied it -- he spends more money on a tax cut for the wealthiest 1 percent than all of his new proposals for prescription drugs, health care, education and national defense combined. Now, those are the wrong priorities: $665 billion over 10 years for the wealthiest 1 percent. Now, and as I said, almost 30 percent of it goes to Americans that make more than $1 million per year. Every middle-class family is eligible for a tax cut under my proposal.
Let me give you some specific examples. I believe that college tuition up to $10,000 a year ought to be tax deductible so middle-class families can choose to send their children to college. I believe that all seniors should be able to choose their own doctors and get prescription drugs from their own pharmacists with Medicare paying half the bill. I believe that parents ought to have more choices with charter schools and public school choice to send their kids always to a safe school. I think we need to make education the No. 1 priority in our country and treat teachers like the professionals that they are. And that's why I have made it the No. 1 priority in my budget, not a tax cut for the wealthy.
 
MR. BUSH Yeah, let me talk about tax cuts one more time. This is a man whose plan excludes 50 million Americans.
 
MR. GORE Not so.
 
MR. BUSH He doesn't believe that -- well, take for example, the marriage penalty. If you itemize your tax return, you get no marriage penalty relief. He picks and chooses. He decides whether who the right people are. It's a fundamental difference of opinion. I want my fellow Americans to hear one more time. We're going to spend $25 trillion -- we're going to collect $25 trillion of revenue over the next 10 years. And we're going to -- projected to spend $21 trillion. Now, surely, we can send 5 percent of that back to you all who pay the bills. There is a problem -- I want to say something, Jim. Wait a minute. This man has been disparaging my plan with all this Washington fuzzy math. I want you to hear a problem we've got in America. If you're a single mother making $22,000 a year and you've got two children, under this tax code, for every additional dollar you make you pay a higher marginal rate on that dollar than someone making $200,000 a year, and that is not right. And so my plan drops the rate from 15 percent to 10 percent, and increases the child credit from $500 to $1,000 to make the code more fair for everybody. Not just a few. Not just, you know, a handful, everybody who pays taxes ought to get some relief.
 
MR. LEHRER All right, having cleared that up, we're going to a new question: education. Governor Bush, both of you have promised dramatically -- to change dramatically public education in this country. But of the public money spent on education, only 6 percent of it is federal money. You want to change 100 percent of public education with 6 percent of the money. Is that possible?
 
MR. BUSH Well, I tell you, we can make a huge difference by saying if you receive federal money we expect you to show results. Let me give you a story about public ed if I might, Jim. It's about KIP Academy in Houston, Tex. It's a -- it's a charter school run by some people from Teach For America, young folks. It's a -- Well I'm going to do something good for my country. I want to teach. A guy named Michael runs the school. It's a school full of so-called at risk children. It's how we, unfortunately, label certain children. It means basically they can't learn. It's a school of strong discipline and high standards. It's one of the best schools in Houston. And here are the key ingredients: high expectations, strong accountability. What Michael says is "Don't put all these rules on us. Just let us teach and hold us accountable for every grade." And that's what we do. And as a result, these young, mainly Hispanic youngsters are some of the best learners in Houston, Tex.
That's my vision for public education all around America. Many of your viewers don't know but Laura and I sent our girls to public school. They went to Austin High School. And many of the public schools are meeting the call. But unfortunately a lot of schools are trapping children in schools that just won't teach and won't change.
So here's the role of the federal government. One is to change Head Start into a reading program. Two is to say that if you want to access reading money, you can do so because the goal is for every single child to learn to read. There must be K through 2 diagnostic tools. There's teacher training money available. Three, we've got to consolidate federal programs to free districts, to free the schools, to encourage innovators like Michael, to let schools reach out beyond the confines of the current structure, to recruit teach-for-the-children-type teachers. Four, we're going to say if you receive federal money, measure third grade, fourth grade, fifth grade, sixth grade, eighth grade and show us whether or not children are learning to read and write and add and subtract and if so, there'll be a bonus plan and -- but if not, instead of continuing to subsidize failure, the money will go to the parents so the parent can choose a different public school. Federal money attributed to the child will go to the parent for public school or charter school or tutorial or Catholic school. What I care about is children. And so does Michael Feinberg. And you know what? It can happen in America with the right kind of leadership.
 
MR. LEHRER Vice President Gore.
 
MR. GORE Look, we agreed on a couple of things on education. I strongly support new accountability; so does Governor Bush. I strongly support local control; so does Governor Bush. I'm in favor of testing as a way of measuring performance, every school, every school district, have every state test the -- the children. I've also proposed voluntary national tests from the fourth grade and eighth grade, and a form of testing that the governor has not endorsed. I think that all new teachers ought to be tested, including in the subjects that they teach. We've got to recruit 100,000 new teachers and I have budgeted for that. We've got to reduce the class size so that the student who walks in has more one-on-one time with the teacher. We ought to have universal preschool. And we ought to make college tuition tax deductible up to $10,000 a year.
I'd like to tell you a quick story. I got a letter today as I left Sarasota, Fla., I'm here with a group of 13 people from around the country who helped me prepare and we had a great time, but two days ago we ate lunch at a restaurant and the guy who served us lunch sent -- got me a letter today. He -- his name is Randy Ellis, he has a 15-year-old daughter named Kaylie, who's in Sarasota High School. Her science class was supposed to be for 24 students. She is the 36th student in that classroom. Sent me a picture of her in the classroom. They can't squeeze another desk in for her so she has to stand during class. I want the federal government, consistent with local control and new accountability, to make improvement of our schools the number one priority so Kaylie will have a desk and can sit down in a classroom where she can learn.
 
MR. LEHRER All right. So, having heard the two of you, voters have just heard the two of you, what's the difference? What's the choice between the two of you on education?
MR. BUSH Well the first -- first is, the difference is there is no new accountability measures in Vice President Gore's plan. He says he's for voluntary testing. You can't have voluntary testing. You must have mandatory testing. You must say that if you receive money, you must show us whether or not children are learning to read and write and add and subtract. That's the difference.
You may claim you've got mandatory testing, but you don't, Mr. Vice President. And that is a huge difference. Testing is the cornerstone of reform. You know how I know? Because it's the cornerstone of reform in the state of Texas. Republicans and Democrats came together and asked the question: What can we do to make our public education the best in the country? And we've gone a long way working together to do so. And the cornerstone is to have strong accountability. In return for money and in return for flexibility, we're going to ask you to show us whether -- and we asked the -- post the results on the Internet, we encourage parents to take a look at the comparative results of schools, we've got a strong charter school movement that I signed the legislation to get started in the state of Texas.
I believe that if we find poor children trapped in schools that won't teach, we need to free the parents. I think we need to expand education savings accounts. It's something the vice president's -- the vice presidential running mate supports.
There's big differences of opinion. He won't support freeing local districts from the strings of federal money.
 
MR. LEHRER All right. How do you see the differences?
 
MR. GORE Well first of all, I do have mandatory testing. I think the governor may not have heard what I said clearly. The voluntary national test is in addition to the mandatory testing that we will require of states -- all schools, all school districts, students themselves and required teacher testing, which goes a step farther than Governor Bush has been willing to go.
Here are a couple of differences, though, Jim. Governor Bush is in favor of vouchers, which take taxpayer money away from public schools and give them to private schools that are not accountable for how the money is used and don't have to take all applicants.
Now private schools play a great role in our society. All of our children have gone to both public schools and private schools. But I don't think private schools should have a right to take taxpayer money away from public schools at a time when Kaylie Ellis is standing in that classroom.
Let me give you another example. I went to a school in Dade County, Fla., where the facilities are so overcrowded, the children have to eat lunch in shifts with the first shift for lunch starting at 9:30 in the morning.
Look, this is a funding crisis all around the country. There are fewer parents of school-aged children in the -- as a percentage of the voting population and there's the largest generation of students ever. We're in an information age when learning is more important than ever. Ninety percent of our kids go to public schools. We have to make it the number one priority, modernize our schools, reduce the class size, recruit new teachers, give every child a chance to learn with one-on-one time in a quality, high quality, safe school.
If it's a failing school, shut it down and reopen it under a new principal with a turn-around team of specialists the way Gov. Jim Hunt does in North Carolina.
Here's another difference. The governor, if it's a failing school, would leave the children in that failing school for three years and then give a little bit of money to the parents, a down payment on a down payment for private school tuition and pretend that that would be enough for them to go out and go to a private school. That's an illusion.
 
MR. LEHRER We've got to move on. Thirty seconds, governor.
 
MR. BUSH O.K., O.K. Yeah. First of all, most good governance is at the state level. See, here's the mentality. I'm going to make the state do this, I'm going to make the state do that. All I'm saying is if you spend money, show us results and test every year, which you do not do, Mr. Vice President, you do not test every year. You can say you do into the cameras, but you don't, unless you've changed your plan here on the stage.
 
MR. GORE I didn't say that.
 
MR. BUSH Secondly -- and you need to test every year, because that's where you determine whether or not children are progressing to excellence. Secondly, one of the things that we've got to be careful about in politics is throwing money at a system that has not yet been reformed. More money is needed and I spend more money, but step one is to make sure we reform the system to have the system in place that leaves no child behind. Stop this business about asking, gosh, how old are you? If you're 10 we're going to put you here, or 12, we'll put you here. And start asking the question what do you know? And if you don't know what you're supposed to know, we'll make sure you do early, before it is too late.
 
MR. LEHRER New question. We've been talking about a lot of specific issues. It's often said that in the final analysis, about 90 percent of being the president of the United States is dealing with the unexpected, not with issues that came up in the campaign. Vice President Gore, can you point to a decision, an action you have taken that illustrates your ability to handle the unexpected, the crisis under fire, etc.?
 
MR. GORE When the action in Kosovo was dragging on and we were searching for a solution to the problem -- our country had defeated the adversary on the battlefield without a single American life being lost in combat, but the dictator, Milosevic, was hanging on -- I invited the former prime minister of Russia to my house and took a risk in asking him to get personally involved, along with the head of Finland, to go to Belgrade and to take a set of proposals from the United States that would constitute basically a surrender by Serbia. But it was a calculated risk that paid off.
Now, I could probably give you some other examples of decisions over the last 24 years. I have been in public service for 24 years, Jim, and throughout all that time, the people I have fought for have been the middle-class families, and I have been willing to stand up to powerful interests like the big insurance companies, the drug companies, the H.M.O.'s, the oil companies. They have good people and they play constructive roles sometimes, but sometimes they get too much power.
I cast my lot with the people, even when it means that you have to stand up to some powerful interests who are trying to turn the policies and the laws to their advantage. That's -- you can see it in this campaign. The big drug companies support Governor Bush's prescription drug proposal. They oppose mine because they don't want to get Medicare involved because they're afraid that Medicare will negotiate lower prices for seniors, who currently pay the highest prices of all.
 
MR. LEHRER Governor Bush?
 
MR. BUSH Well, I've been standing up to big Hollywood, big trial lawyers. What was the question? It was about emergencies, wasn't it?
 
MR. LEHRER Well, it was about -- well, yeah, O.K.
 
MR. BUSH I -- you know, as governor, one of the things you have to deal with is catastrophe. I can remember the fires that swept Parker County, Tex. I remember the floods that swept our state. I remember going down to Del Rio, Tex. I've got to pay the administration a compliment. James Lee Witt of FEMA has done a really good job of working with governors during times of crisis. But that's the time when you're tested not only -- it's time you test your mettle. It's the time to test your heart, when you see people whose lives have been turned upside down. It broke my heart to go to the flood scene in Del Rio where a fellow and his family just got completely uprooted. The only thing I knew to do was to get aid as quickly as possible, which we did, with state and federal help, and to put my arms around the man and his family and cry with them. But that's what governors do. Governors are oftentimes found on the front line of catastrophic situations.
 
MR. LEHRER New question. There can be all kinds of crises, governor. A question for you. There could be a crisis, for instance, in the financial area.
 
MR. BUSH Yeah.
 
MR. LEHRER The stock market could take a tumble. There could be a failure of a major financial institution. What is your general attitude toward government intervention in such events?
 
MR. BUSH Well it depends, obviously. But what I would do, first and foremost, is I would get in touch with the Federal Reserve Chairman, Alan Greenspan, to find out all the facts and all the circumstances. I would have my secretary of treasury be in touch with the financial centers, not only here but at home. I would make sure that key members of Congress were called in to discuss the gravity of the situation. And I would come up with a game plan to deal with it. That's what governors end up doing. We end up being problem solvers. We come up with practical, common-sense solutions for problems that we're confronted with. And in this case, in case of a financial crisis, I would gather all the facts before I made the decision as to what the government ought or ought not to do.
 
MR. LEHRER Vice President Gore.
 
MR. GORE Yeah. First I want to compliment the governor on his response to those fires and floods in Texas. I accompanied James Lee Witt down to Texas when those fires broke out. And FEMA has been a major flagship project of our reinventing government efforts. And I agree, it works extremely well now. On the international financial crises that come up, my friend Bob Rubin, the former secretary of the treasury, is here. He's a very close adviser to me and a great friend in all respects. I have had a chance to work with him and Alan Greenspan and others on the crisis following the collapse of the Mexican peso, when the Asian financial crisis raised the risk of worldwide recession that could affect our economy. And starting -- and now, of course, the euro's value has been dropping but seems to be under control. But it started for me in -- in the last eight years when I had the honor of casting the tie-breaking vote to end the old economic plan here at home and put into place a new economic plan that has helped us to make some progress: 22 million new jobs and the greatest prosperity ever. But it's not good enough and my attitude is you ain't seen nothing yet. We need to do more and better.
 
MR. LEHRER So, governor, would you agree there is no basic difference here on -- on -- on intervening, the federal government intervening in what might be seen by others to be a private financial crisis if it's that severe?
 
MR. BUSH No, there's no difference on that. There is a difference, though, as to what the economy has meant. I think the economy has meant more for the Gore and Clinton folks than the Gore and Clinton folks have meant for the economy. I think most of the economic growth that has taken place is a result of ingenuity and hard work and entrepreneurship. And that's the role of government, it's to encourage that. But in terms of the response to the question, no.
 
MR. LEHRER O.K.
 
MR. GORE Can I comment on that?
 
MR. LEHRER You may.
 
MR. GORE See, you know, I -- I -- I think that the American people deserve credit for the great economy that we have and it's there ingenuity, I -- I agree with that. But you know, they were -- they were working pretty hard eight years ago and they had ingenuity eight years ago.
The difference is we've got a new policy and instead of concentrating on tax cuts mostly for the wealthy, we want -- I want tax cuts for the middle-class families and I want to continue the prosperity and make sure that it enriches not just the few, but all of our families. Look, we have gone from the biggest deficits to the biggest surpluses. We've gone from a triple-dip recession during the previous 12 years to a tripling of the stock market. Instead of high unemployment we've got the lowest African-American and lowest Latino unemployment rates ever in history and 22 million new jobs.
But it's not good enough. Too many people have been left behind. We have got to do much more and the key is job training, education, investments in health care and education, the environment, retirement security. And incidentally, we have got to preserve Social Security and I am totally opposed to diverting one our of every six dollars away from the Social Security trust fund, as the governor has proposed, into the stock market. I want new incentives for savings and investment for the young couples who are working hard so they can save and invest on their own on top of Social Security, not at the expense of Social Security as the governor proposes.
 
MR. BUSH Two points. One, a lot of folks are still waiting for that 1992 middle-class tax cut. I remember the vice president saying, just give us a chance to get up there. We're going to make sure you get tax cuts. It didn't happen. And now he's having to say it again. It's -- it's -- they've had their chance to -- to deliver a tax cut to you.
Secondly, the surest way to bust this economy is to increase the role and size of the federal government. The Senate Budget Committee did a study of the vice president's expenditures. They've projected that it could conceivable bust the budget by $900 billion. That means he's either going to have to raise your taxes by $900 billion or go into the Social Security surplus for 900 billion. This is a plan that is going to increase the bureaucracy by 20,000 people. His targeted tax cut is so detailed, so much fine print that it's going to require numerous I.R.S. agents. No, we need somebody to simplify the code, to be fair, to continue prosperity by sharing some of the surplus with the people who pay the bills, particularly those at the bottom end of the economic ladder.
 
MR. GORE Let -- if I could respond, Jim. What he's quoting is not the Senate Budget Committee, it is a partisan press release by the Republicans on the Senate Budget Committee that's not worth the government -- the -- the -- the taxpayer-paid paper that it's printed on.
Now, as for 20,000 new bureaucrats, as you call them, you know, the size of the federal government will go down in a Gore administration. In the reinventing government program you just look at the numbers, it is 300,000 people smaller today than it was eight years ago. Now, the -- the fact is you're going to have a hard time convincing folks that we were a whole lot better off eight years ago than we are today.
But that's not the question. The question is will we be better off four years from now than we are today? And as for the surest way to threaten our prosperity, having a -- a $1.9 trillion tax cut, almost half of which goes to the wealthy, and a $1 trillion Social Security privatization proposal, is the surest way to put our -- our budget into deficit, raise interest rates and put our prosperity at risk.
 
MR. BUSH I can't let the man, I can't let the man continue with fuzzy math. It's 1.3 trillion, Mr. Vice President. It's going to go to everybody who pays taxes. I'm not going to be one of these kinds of presidents that says you get tax relief, and you don't. I'm not going to be a pick and chooser. What is fair is everybody who pays taxes ought to get relief.
 
MR. LEHRER I thought we cleared this up a while ago.
 
MR. GORE Yeah.
 
MR. LEHRER New question on Social Security. Both of you have Social Security reform plans and we could spend the rest of the evening and two or three other evenings talking about them in detail. We're not --
 
MR. GORE Suits me.
 
MR. LEHRER -- going to do that. But, many experts, including Federal Reserve Chairman Greenspan, Vice President Gore, say that it will be impossible for either of you, essentially, to keep the system viable on its own during the coming baby boomer retirement onslaught without either reducing benefits or increasing taxes. Do you disagree?
 
MR. GORE I do disagree, because if we can keep our prosperity going, if we can continue balancing the budget and paying down the debt, then the strong economy keeps generating surpluses. And here's what I would do, here's my plan. I will keep Social Security in a lockbox, and that pays down the national debt and the interest savings I would put right back into Social Security. That extends the life of Social Security for 55 years.
Now, I think that it's very important to understand that cutting benefits under Social Security means that people like Winifred Skinner from Des Moines, Iowa, who's here, would really have a much harder time. Because there are millions of seniors who are living almost hand to mouth. And you talk about cutting benefits, I don't go along with it. I am opposed to it. I'm also opposed to a plan that diverts one out of every six dollars away from the Social Security trust fund.
You know, Social Security is a trust fund that pays the checks this year with the money that's paid into Social Security this year. The governor wants to divert one out of every six dollars off into the stock market, which means that he would drain a trillion dollars out of the Social Security trust fund over the, in this generation, over the next 10 years, and Social Security under that approach would go bankrupt within this generation. His leading adviser on this plan actually said that would be O.K. because then the Social Security trust fund could start borrowing. It would borrow up to $3 trillion. Now, Social Security has never done that, and I don't think it should do that. I think it should stay in a lockbox, and I'll tell you this, I will veto anything that takes money out of Social Security for privatization or anything else, other than Social Security.
 
MR. LEHRER Governor?
 
MR. LEHRER Governor.
 
MR. BUSH Well, I thought it was interesting that on the two minutes, he spent about a million and a half on my plan, which means he doesn't want you to know that what he's doing is loading up I.O.U.'s for future generations. He puts no real assets in the Social Security system. The revenues exceed the expenses in Social Security till the year 2015, which means all retirees are going to get the promises made.
So for those of you who he wants to scare into the voting booth to vote for him, hear me loud and clear. A promise made will be a promise kept. And you bet we want to allow younger workers to take some of their own money. See, that's a difference of opinion. The vice president thinks it's the government's money. The payroll taxes are your money. You ought to put it in prudent, safe investments so that one trillion, over the next 10 years, grows to be three trillion. The money stays within the Social Security system. It's a part of the Social Security system. He keeps claiming it's going to be out of Social Security. It's your money. It's a part of your retirement benefits. It's a fundamental difference between what we believe. I want you to have your own asset that you can call your own. I want you to have an asset that you can pass on from one generation to the next. I want to get a better rate of return for your own money than the paltry 2 percent that the current Social Security trust gets today.
So, Mr. Greenspan missed the -- I thought missed an opportunity to say there's a third way and that is to get a better rate of return on the Social Security moneys coming into the trust. There's $2.3 trillion of surplus that we can use to make sure younger workers have a Social Security plan in the future. If we're smart, if we trust workers and if we understand the -- the power of the compounding rate of interest.
 
MR. GORE Here's the difference. I give a new incentive for younger workers to save their own money and invest their own money but not at the expense of Social Security, on top of Social Security. My plan is Social Security plus; the governor's plan is Social Security minus. Your future benefits would be cut by the amount that's diverted into the stock market. And if you make bad investments, that's too bad. But even before then the problem hits because the money contributed to Social Security this year is an entitlement, that's how it works. And the money is used to pay the benefits for seniors this year.
If you cut the amount going in, one our of every six dollars, then you have to cut the value of each check by one out of every six dollars unless you come up with the money from somewhere else. I would like to know from the governor, I know we're not supposed to answer -- ask each other questions, but I'd be interested in knowing, does that trillion dollars come from the trust fund or does it come from the rest of the budget?
 
MR. BUSH No. There's enough money to pay seniors today and the current affairs of Social Security. The trillion comes from the surplus. Surplus is more -- is money, more money than needed.
Let me tell you what your plan is, it's not Social Security plus, it's Social Security plus huge debt is what it is. You leave future generations with tremendous I.O.U.'s. It's time to have a leader that not -- doesn't put off, you know, tomorrow what we should do today. It's time to have somebody to step up and say, look, let's let younger workers take some of their own money and under certain guidelines invest it in the private markets. The -- the -- the -- the safest of federal investments yields 4 percent. That's twice the amount of rate of return that the current Social Security trust. There's a fundamental difference of opinion here, folks. Younger worker after younger worker hears my call that says I trust you. And you know what, the issue is changing, because seniors now understand that the promise made will be a promise kept. But younger workers now understand we better have a government that trusts them. And that's exactly what I'm going to do.
 
MR. LEHRER All right, new question.
 
MR. GORE Could I respond to that, Jim?
 
MR. LEHRER We're almost --
 
MR. GORE This is a big issue. This is a big issue. Could we do another round on it?
 
MR. LEHRER We're almost out of time.
 
MR. GORE Just briefly? When F.D.R. established Social Security, they didn't call him I.O.U.'s, they called them the full faith and credit of the United States. If you don't have trust in that, I do. And if you take it out of the surplus and the trust fund, that means the trust fund goes bankrupt in this generation, within 20 years.
 
MR. LEHRER Go ahead.
 
MR. BUSH This is a government that thinks a 2 percent rate of return on your money is satisfactory. It's not. This is a government that says younger workers can't possibly have their own asset. We need to think differently about the issue. We need to make sure our seniors get the promise made. But I want to tell you, if we don't trust younger workers to manage some of their own money, with the Social Security surplus, to grow from one trillion to three trillion, it's going to be impossible to bridge the gap without what Mr. Gore's plan will do, causing huge payroll taxes or major benefit reductions.
 
MR. LEHRER New question.
 
MR. BUSH Yes, sir.
 
MR. LEHRER New question.
 
MR. BUSH Yes sir.
 
MR. LEHRER Governor Bush, are there issues of character that distinguish you from Vice President Gore?
 
MR. BUSH Well, the man loves his wife and I appreciate that a lot and I love mine. And the man loves his family a lot and I appreciate that because I love my family. I think the thing that discouraged me about the Vice President was uttering those famous words: no controlling legal authority. I felt like, that there needed to be a better sense of responsibility of what was going on in the White House. I believe that, I believe they've moved that sign The Buck Stops Here from the Oval Office desk to The Buck Stops Here on the Lincoln Bedroom and that's not good for the country. It's not right. We need to have a new look about how we conduct ourselves in office. There's a huge trust. I see it all the time when people come up to me and say I don't want you to let me down again and we can do better than the past administration has done. It's time for a fresh start. It's time for a new look. It's time for a fresh start after a season of cynicism. And so I, I don't know the man well, but I've been disappointed about how he and his administration has conducted the fund-raising affairs. You know, going to a Buddhist temple and then claiming it wasn't a fund-raiser is just not my view of responsibility.
 
MR. LEHRER Vice President Gore.
 
MR. GORE Well, I think we ought to attack our country's problems not attack each other. I want to spend my time making this country even better than it is, not trying to make you out to be a bad person. You may want to focus on scandals. I want to focus on results. As I said a couple of months ago, I stand here as my own man, and I want you to see me for who I really am.
Tipper and I have been married for 30 years. We became grandparents a year and a half ago. We've got four children. I have devoted 24 years of my life to public service. And I've said this before and I'll say it again, if you entrust me with the presidency, I may not be the most exciting politician, but I will work hard for you every day. I will fight for middle-class families and working men and women and I will never let you down.
 
MR. LEHRER So, governor, what are you saying when you mention the -- the fund-raising scandals or this fund-raising charges that involved Vice President Gore? What are you saying that the voters should take from that that's relevant to this election?
 
MR. BUSH I just think they ought to factor it in when they make their decision in the voting booth. Who can do a better job -- pardon me?
 
MR. LEHRER In what way?
 
MR. BUSH Well, I -- I just, you know, I think that people need to be held responsible for the actions they take in life. I think that --
 
MR. LEHRER Go ahead, excuse me.
 
MR. BUSH Well, I think -- I think that's part of the need for a cultural change. We need to say that each of us need to be responsible for what we do. And people in the highest office of the land must be responsible for decisions they make in life. And -- and that's the way I've conducted myself as governor of Texas and that's the way I'll conduct myself as president of the United States, should I be fortunate enough to earn your vote.
 
MR. LEHRER Are you saying all of this is irrelevant, Vice President Gore, to the --
 
MR. GORE No, I think -- I think the American people should take into account who we are as individuals, what our experience is, what our positions on the issues are, what our proposals are. I am asking you again to see me for who I really am. I'm offering you my own vision, my own experience, my own proposals.
And incidentally, one of them is this. This current campaign financing system has not reflected credit on anybody in either party. And that's one of the reasons I've said before, and I'll pledge here tonight, if I'm president, the very first bill that Joe Lieberman and I will send to the United States Congress is the McCain-Feingold campaign finance reform bill. And the reason it's that important is that all of the other issues, whether prescription drugs for all seniors that are opposed by the drug companies or the patients bill of rights to take the decisions away from the H.M.O.'s and give them to the doctors and nurses opposed by the H.M.O.'s and insurance companies, all of these other proposals are going to be a lot easier to get passed for the American people if we limit the influence of special interest money and give democracy back to the American people. And I wish Governor Bush would join me this evening in -- in endorsing the McCain-Feingold campaign finance reform bill.
 
MR. LEHRER Governor Bush.
 
MR. BUSH You know, this man has no credibility on the issue. As a matter of fact, I read in The New York Times where he said he co-sponsored the McCain-Feingold campaign fund-raising bill. But he wasn't in the Senate with Senator Feingold. And so I -- Look, I'm going to -- what you need to know about me is I'm going to uphold the law. I'm going to have an attorney general that enforces the law, that if the time for -- the time for campaign funding reform is after the election. This man has outspent me. The special interests are outspending me. And I am not going to lay down my arms in the middle of the campaign for somebody who has got no credibility on the issue.
 
MR. LEHRER Senator McCain said in --
 
MR. GORE Well, well, --
 
MR. LEHRER . Excuse me one sec, Vice President Gore.
 
MR. GORE Please.
 
MR. LEHRER Senator McCain said in August that it didn't matter which one of you is president of the United States in January. There's going to be blood on the floor of the United States Senate, and he's going to tie up the United States Senate until campaign finance reform is passed that includes a ban on soft money. First of all, would you support that effort by him or would you sign a bill that is finally passed that included soft --
 
MR. BUSH Well, I would support an effort to ban corporate soft money and labor union soft money so long as there was dues checkoff. I've campaigned on this ever since the primaries. I believe there needs to be instant disclosure on the Internet as to who's giving to whom. I think we need to fully enforce the law. I mean I think we need to have an attorney general that says if laws are broken we'll enforce the law, be strict about, be firm about it.
 
MR. GORE Look, Governor Bush, you have attacked my character and credibility. And I am not going to respond in kind. I think we ought to focus on the problems and not attack each other. And one of the serious problems -- hear me well -- is that our system of government is being undermined by too much influence coming from special interest money. We have to get a handle on it. And, like John McCain, I have learned from experience. And it's not a new position for me. Twenty-four years ago, I supported full public financing of all federal elections. And anybody who thinks I'm just saying it'll be the first bill I send to the Congress, I want you to know --
 
MR. BUSH All right. Let me just say one thing.
 
MR. GORE I care passionately about this, and I will fight until it becomes law.
 
MR. BUSH I want people to hear what he just said. He is for full public financing of Congressional elections. I'm absolutely adamantly opposed to that. I don't want the government financing Congressional elections --
 
MR. LEHRERI would just say on that wonderful note of disagreement, we have to stop here. And we want to go now to your closing statements. Governor Bush is first. You have two minutes.
 
MR. BUSH Thank you, Jim. Thank the University of Massachusetts. Mr. Vice President, thank you. It's been a good lively exchange.
Obviously we have huge differences of opinion. Mine is that I want to empower people in their own lives. I also want to go to Washington to get some positive things done. It's going to require a new spirit, a spirit of cooperation. It's going to require the ability of a Republican president to reach out across the partisan divide and to say to Democrats, let's come together to do what's right for America.
It's been my record as governor of Texas. It'll be how I conduct myself if I'm fortunate enough to earn your vote as president of the United States.
I want to finally get something done on Medicare. I want to make sure prescription drugs are available for all seniors. And I want seniors to have additional choices when it comes to choosing their health care plans.
I want to finally get something done on Social Security. I want to make sure the seniors who have had the promise made will be a promise kept. But I want younger workers to be able to manage some of their own money, some of their own payroll taxes in the private sector under certain guidelines to get a better rate of return on your own money.
I want to rebuild our military to keep the peace. I want to have a strong hand when it comes to the United States in world affairs. I don't want to try to put our troops in all places at all times. I don't want to be the world's policeman. I want to be the world's peacemaker by having a military of high morale and a military that's well equipped. I want to have antiballistic missile systems to protect ourselves and our allies from a rogue nation that my try to hold us hostage or blackmail a friend.
I also want to make sure our education system fulfills its hope and promise. I've got a strong record of working with Democrats and Republicans in Texas to make sure no child is left behind. I understand the limited role of the federal government. But it can be a constructive role when it comes to reform by insisting that there be strong accountability systems.
My intentions are to earn your vote and earn your confidence. I'm asking for your vote. I want you to be on my team. And for those of you working, thanks. Thanks from the bottom of my heart. And for those of you making up your mind, I'd be honored to have your support.
 
MR. LEHRER Vice President Gore, two minutes.
 
MR. BUSH I want you to be on my team, and for those of you working, thanks. Thanks from the bottom of my heart. And for those of you making up your mind, I'd be honored to have your support.
 
MR. LEHRER Vice President Gore, two minutes.
 
MR. GORE I want to thank everybody who watched and listened tonight, because this is, indeed, a crucial time in American history. We're at a fork in the road. We have this incredible prosperity, but a lot of people have been left behind. And we have a very important decision to make: Will we use the prosperity to enrich all of our families and not just the few?
One important way of looking at this is to ask, who are you going to fight for? Throughout my career in public service, I have fought for the working men and women of this country, middle-class families. Why? Because you are the ones who have the hardest time paying taxes, the hardest time making ends meet. You are the ones who are making car payments and mortgage payments and doing right by your kids. And a lot of times there are powerful forces arrayed against you. And make no mistake about it, they do have undue influence in Washington, D.C., and it makes a difference if you have a president who will fight for you.
I know one thing about the position of president. It's the only position in our Constitution that's filled by an individual who is given the responsibility to fight not just for one state or one district or the well connected or wealthy, but to fight for all of the people, including especially those who most need somebody who will stand up and take on whatever powerful forces might stand in the way.
There's a woman named Winifred Skinner here tonight from Iowa. I mentioned her earlier. She's 79 years old. She has Social Security. I'm not going to cut her benefits or support any proposal that would. She gets a small pension, but in order to pay for her prescription drug benefits, she has to go out seven days a week, several hours a day, picking up cans. She came all the way from Iowa in a Winnebago with her poodle in order to attend here tonight. And I want to tell her I am going to fight for a prescription drug benefit for all seniors. And I'm going to fight for the people of this country for a prosperity that benefits all.
 
MR. LEHRER And we will continue this dialogue next week on Oct. 11 at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, N.C. The format then will be more informal, more conversational with the two candidates seated at a table with me. The third will be Oct. 17 at Washington University in St. Louis and that will follow a town hall-type format.
Also ahead, the day after tomorrow, on Oct. 5, there's the 90-minute debate between the Democratic candidate for vice president, Senator Joe Lieberman, and the Republican candidate, former Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney. It will be held at Centre College in Danville, Ky. The moderator will be Bernard Shaw off CNN.
Thank you, Governor Bush, Vice President Gore. See you next week. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; DEBATING; TELEVISION POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (77%); BUDGETS (50%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); LEHRER, JIM GEORGE W BUSH (93%); AL GORE (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2000



95 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Congress Approves a Big Increase In Visas for Specialized Workers

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 3

 BODY:
Congress today passed a bill to increase significantly the number of visas for educated foreigners who temporarily fill specialized American jobs, largely in the high-technology industry. Rapid approval by President Clinton appears virtually certain.
The bill advanced first today in the Senate, on a vote of 96 to 1 that followed weeks of partisan feuding by lawmakers and months of aggressive lobbying by high-tech companies, which say they need many thousands more computer programmers and software engineers. 
 Tonight, just hours after it had passed the Senate, the measure was cleared as well by the House, where Republicans set aside their differences on the issue.
That the legislation was passed by the House on a voice vote and was opposed by only one senator -- Ernest F. Hollings, a South Carolina Democrat who is a longtime job protectionist -- underscored the technology industry's formidable influence on Capitol Hill. It was just two years ago that the industry first won an increase in the number of these visas for specialized workers, called H-1B visas.
Under the bill, the Immigration and Naturalization Service would be able to issue 195,000 H-1B visas a year, for each of the next three years, to foreign-born workers with college degrees and special skills, up from the existing limit of 115,000. Each visa is good for six years, although it must be renewed after the first three.
"The one thing on which I think almost everyone is in agreement is that we face a serious worker shortage with respect to high-tech employment and skilled labor in America today," said Senator Spencer Abraham, a Michigan Republican who co-sponsored the legislation. "The short-term problem is how to fill the key positions immediately so that we don't lose opportunities to foreign competitors. The long-term problem is to determine what we can do to make certain that in the future we have sufficient trained Americans to fill those jobs."
The legislation includes several provisions intended to allay the concerns of organized labor, which has routinely opposed H-1B visas, arguing that they displace American workers and depress pay. Under one provision, for example, an employer that sponsors a foreigner who obtains such a visa must pay that worker the job's prevailing salary.
The measure also continues a program to train American workers for high-tech jobs and teach children information technology skills. The program is financed by a $500 fee paid by the sponsoring employer for each visa application, a sum that might be increased to $1,000 in coming weeks under separate legislation.
But the bill's immediate goal is to help high-tech companies recruit employees.
"There are 300,000 jobs that have yet to be filled," said Representative David Dreier, a California Republican who had sponsored a bill similar to the one passed today. "The industry very much wants to make sure that we remain competitive globally. We either import workers or export jobs and industries."
President Clinton has said he supports increasing the number of H-1B visas, and in May proposed raising the annual limit to 200,000. And Congressional Democrats roundly endorsed the legislation today, although in the Senate they had held it up for several weeks as they tried, unsuccessfully, to attach other immigration provisions.
"I thought we would work together to restore some of America's lost luster on immigration issues, and this did not happen," said Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, who has sought to legalize the immigration status of some Haitians, Central Americans and others who have lived in the United States a long time illegally.
Each of the two major political parties has tirelessly courted high-tech companies in recent years, hoping to sway the wealthy industry its way. For its part, the industry has found benefit in playing the political game, and begun hiring well-connected lobbyists and stepping up its campaign contributions. According to an analysis by the Center for Responsive Politics here, the computer industry has made political contributions of more than $22 million since the beginning of 1999, nearly three times the contributions it made in 1995-96, during the last presidential election cycle.
While the bill that Congress passed today was intended to beef up the high-tech labor pool, other foreign workers who receive the special visas include architects, engineers, university professors and even distinguished fashion models.
The United States is not the only country that has tried such an approach. Germany adopted a similar measure earlier this year, allowing up to 20,000 computer specialists from non-European countries to apply for visas to bolster the German information technology industry.
But the American program is far larger: in 1998, Congress increased the annual limit on the special visas to 115,000 from 65,000.
Still, that number has been quickly exhausted each year. In 2000, the immigration service, having reached the limit, stopped taking applications in March, fully six months before the end of the fiscal year.
Nearly 50 percent of the visas go to workers from India, which churns out large numbers of high-technology specialists. The second-highest number go to people born in China. In most cases, the workers are already in the United States, pursuing advanced degrees at American universities.
"The companies frequently use these people for computer programming jobs and creating new software that can be used in a global environment," said Harris Miller, president of the Information Technology Association of America, an industry group. "When they develop these products, they have to be adapted not just for the U.S. marketplace, but for Asia, Europe and Africa." The foreign workers "know the language, the skills, the marketing that needs to be done to customize that product."
The bill, Mr. Miller said, was "a political compromise," inasmuch as the industry would like to lift the limit on H-1B visas altogether.
"Is 195,000 going to be enough?" Mr. Miller said. "I don't know. But 115,000 wasn't nearly enough. The new economy is simply growing much faster than anybody ever projected."
Lately the program has come under criticism, with even some supporters admitting mix-ups that leave foreign workers disappointed that the H-1B visas do not lead to indefinite stays in the United States.
"The H-1B program is a temporary-workers program," Mr. Miller said. "The employers make that very clear up front. Sometimes there is a disconnect. Sometimes workers think it's an automatic step toward permanent immigrant status."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA TODAY (53%); THE LONG-TERM CREDIT BANK OF JAPAN LTD (53%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (55%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (55%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; VISAS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; CHILDREN AND YOUTH EMPLOYMENT VISAS (91%); APPROVALS (91%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); LABOR SHORTAGES (73%); ENGINEERING (73%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (71%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (71%); REFUGEES (68%); PREVAILING WAGES (67%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); 

PERSON: ALVAREZ, LIZETTE BILL CLINTON (73%); DAVID DREIER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2000



96 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE POLICY -- MEDICARE;
Candidates' Positions Reflect Party Stances

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER 

 BODY:
On several issues in the debate, Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush stood on principles that have divided their parties for decades.
Mr. Bush favored large tax cuts, Mr. Gore more federal spending. Mr. Gore stood for abortion rights, Mr. Bush did not. Mr. Gore advocated expanding Social Security and Medicare. Mr. Bush pressed for partial privatization of the programs. 
 They challenged each other's logic and budget numbers, offering a array of charges and countercharges, numbers and statistics, diplomatic catch-phrases, military jargon and economic theories. But the basic disagreement was over philosophy.
Here is an examination of the candidates' positions on many of the issues that were points of contention in the debate and have been throughout the election year.
The candidates clashed early and fiercely over how to provide prescription drug coverage to older Americans. Mr. Bush accused Mr. Gore of using "Medi-scare tactics," while Mr. Gore accused Mr. Bush of advancing a plan that offered little or no help to most Medicare beneficiaries and was far too reliant on private insurance.
Mr. Bush advocated transforming the government health insurance program into a largely private marketplace in which the elderly are given a fixed amount of money each year and can purchase the plan of their choice. He noted that the traditional Medicare program would be preserved and that the elderly could stay with the program if they chose.
But Mr. Gore's plan, like Mr. Bush's, would make it substantially more expensive for those who want to stay with traditional Medicare.
Under Mr. Bush's proposal, health plans would be required to offer drug coverage. Low-income seniors would get immediate help, he argued, under a four-year, $48 billion program of grants to the states.
Mr. Gore said that this plan would be limited to the low-income elderly, and that 95 percent of older Americans would "get no help whatsoever under my opponent's plan for the first four or five years."
Mr. Gore advocated adding a standard drug benefit to the Medicare program: it would be voluntary, available for a monthly premium beginning at $25 and gradually doubling over a decade. It would cover about half the costs of drugs up to a cap that gradually rises to $5,000. He proposed a 50 percent federal subsidy of the premiums; Mr. Bush proposed 25 percent. ROBIN TONER
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; DEBATING; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); HEALTH INSURANCE MEDICARE (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); AGING (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); BUDGETS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (76%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (76%); POOR POPULATION (75%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (73%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (68%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (63%); ABORTION (57%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2000



97 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE POLICY -- THE BUDGET;
Candidates' Positions Reflect Party Stances

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

 BODY:
On several issues in the debate, Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush stood on principles that have divided their parties for decades.
Mr. Bush favored large tax cuts, Mr. Gore more federal spending. Mr. Gore stood for abortion rights, Mr. Bush did not. Mr. Gore advocated expanding Social Security and Medicare. Mr. Bush pressed for partial privatization of the programs. 
 They challenged each other's logic and budget numbers, offering a array of charges and countercharges, numbers and statistics, diplomatic catch-phrases, military jargon and economic theories. But the basic disagreement was over philosophy.
Here is an examination of the candidates' positions on many of the issues that were points of contention in the debate and have been throughout the election year.
The candidates agreed that a central issue was how to apportion the budget surplus, which the Congressional Budget Office projects to total $4.56 trillion over the next 10 years.
Mr. Gore repeatedly attacked Mr. Bush for proposing a tax cut, amounting to $1.3 trillion over nine years starting in 2002, that would provide more money to the wealthiest 1 percent of Americans than Mr. Bush has proposed to spend on education, health care, prescription drug coverage for the elderly and national defense combined.
Mr. Gore's numbers were basically correct. According to Citizens for Tax Justice, a liberal research group, 42.6 percent of Mr. Bush's tax cuts, when they are fully phased in, would go to the top 1 percent of households by income, those making $319,000 a year or more.
If that percentage were applied to the $1.3 trillion pricetag that Mr. Bush put on his tax plan, it would mean that $554 billion would go to the wealthiest 1 percent. Mr. Bush's proposal calls for $475 billion in additional spending over 10 years on the areas cited by Mr. Gore and others.
Mr. Bush responded that his tax plan would actually result in the wealthiest taxpayers shouldering a bigger portion of the tax burden. His assertion was based on an analysis done by his economic advisers that showed that people at lower income levels would get a larger tax income tax cut in percentage terms, though not in dollar terms, than people at higher income levels.
The analysis showed that people earning $200,000 or more would pay 40.9 percent of all income taxes under the Bush plan, compared to 39.1 percent under current law. The analysis covered only income taxes, and therefore excluded the effects of Mr. Bush's proposal to repeal the federal tax on large estates, those valued at $675,000 or more.
Mr. Bush said 50 million people, including anyone who is single and people above certain income thresholds, would receive no benefits from Mr. Gore's $480 billion tax cut plan. The Gore campaign disputed Mr. Bush's figure but could not provide an estimate of its own.
Mr. Bush said his plan would split the projected surplus among additional spending, tax cuts and shoring up Social Security. He said he would use half the surplus for Social Security.
That figure coincided with the portion of the surplus being generated by excess Social Security payroll taxes hat both parties have agreed should go only to reducing the national debt or improving the financial condition of the retirement system.
Mr. Bush said he would use a quarter of the surplus for "important projects." The remaining quarter, he said, would go to his tax cut. At $1.3 trillion, his tax cut actually would use up 28.5 percent of the surplus. RICHARD W. STEVENSON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); CITIZENS FOR TAX JUSTICE (54%); CITIZENS FOR TAX JUSTICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); CITIZENS FOR TAX JUSTICE (54%); CITIZENS FOR TAX JUSTICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; DEBATING; TELEVISION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (95%); BUDGETS (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MEDICARE (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); LIBERALISM (72%); AGING (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (71%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); ABORTION (57%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (51%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2000



98 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE POLICY -- OTHER SOCIAL ISSUES;
Candidates' Positions Reflect Party Stances

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

 BODY:
On several issues in the debate, Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush stood on principles that have divided their parties for decades.
Mr. Bush favored large tax cuts, Mr. Gore more federal spending. Mr. Gore stood for abortion rights, Mr. Bush did not. Mr. Gore advocated expanding Social Security and Medicare. Mr. Bush pressed for partial privatization of the programs. 
 They challenged each other's logic and budget numbers, offering a array of charges and countercharges, numbers and statistics, diplomatic catch-phrases, military jargon and economic theories. But the basic disagreement was over philosophy.
Here is an examination of the candidates' positions on many of the issues that were points of contention in the debate and have been throughout the election year.
On education, Mr. Bush stressed his plan to have students tested annually and to hold the public schools accountable if the students did not score well.
Mr. Gore emphasized the money he would spend to hire teachers, raise teachers' salaries and give parents tax breaks to help offset the cost of college tuition.
The governor talked more about local control of schools; Mr. Gore talked about how he would use federal funds to help reduce class size.
Mr. Gore accused Mr. Bush of favoring vouchers -- money to parents for private school tuition -- and said money should never be taken away from public schools.
Mr. Bush did not rise to the bait and avoided using the term vouchers. But he said would give parents money for private schools if testing showed over several years that the public schools were not serving the children adequately.
Neither candidate accepted the idea that the only way to preserve Social Security is to raise taxes or cut benefits. Mr. Gore said he would continue the current benefit levels and provide government matching funds to help workers set up retirement accounts above and beyond Social Security. Mr. Bush would turn to a partial privatization of the system.
Mr. Bush accused Mr. Gore of having no strategy for saving Social Security when the present funds expire. Mr. Bush would use about 15 percent of Social Security taxes to let workers set up private retirement accounts. The problem with the Bush plan, in Mr. Gore's view, is that insufficient money would be available for current benefit levels.
 DAVID E. ROSENBAUM
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: William M. Daley, lower right, campaign chairman for Vice President Al Gore, in the media center after last night's debate in Boston. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; DEBATING; TELEVISION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); TESTS AND TESTING; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; VOUCHERS; FEDERAL AID (US) SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MEDICARE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (75%); ACADEMIC TESTING (75%); CHILDREN (74%); STUDENT EXPENSES (74%); FUNDRAISING (74%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (67%); ABORTION (57%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2000



99 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Fed Keeps Rates Steady but Remains Concerned Over Inflation

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4

 BODY:
Reassured by signs that economic growth is moderating to a sustainable pace, the Federal Reserve voted today to hold interest rates steady, but warned that low unemployment and high oil prices could still lead to a jump in inflation.
In its last meeting before Election Day, the Fed said it would hold its benchmark federal funds rate on overnight loans among banks at 6.5 percent, where it has been since May. It was the third consecutive meeting at which the Fed kept monetary policy on hold, after raising rates by 1.75 percentage points in six steps starting in June of last year. 
 In announcing its decision, the central bank's Federal Open Market Committee suggested that the economy's capacity for noninflationary growth had increased in recent years and that the expansion had slowed to near that range. But its statement was laden with caveats, and gave no indication that the Fed had begun thinking about cutting rates, as some investors had been hoping it would.
Faced with the likelihood that rates would remain steady at best in coming months and might even rise, investors sent stock prices down after the Fed's announcement.
The Dow Jones industrial average, which had been up more than 100 points before the release of the Fed statement around 2:15, lost most of its gains and closed at 10,719.74, up 19.61 points for the day. The Nasdaq composite index fell 113.07 points, to 3,455.83. Prices of long-term government bonds fell.
Most indicators in the last few months have suggested that the business expansion, now in its 10th year, is slowing somewhat from its torrid pace late last year and earlier this year.
The Commerce Department reported today that sales of new single-family homes declined by 3 percent in August and the Conference Board said its index of leading indicators declined 0.1 percent in August after falling 0.2 percent in July.
At the same time, inflation by most measures has remained subdued. And although the issue is still subject to considerable debate among economists, Fed officials have become increasingly convinced that the technology-driven upturn in the growth rate of productivity -- the most important measure of efficiency and a critical indicator of long-term economic potential -- is likely to continue for some time.
As productivity improves, businesses can pay workers more and maintain their profits without raising prices.
Still, with unemployment at 4.1 percent, Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, has remained concerned that employers might soon have to begin bidding up wages to find the workers they need, potentially pushing prices up.
And though the surge in oil prices this year has not filtered through the entire economy, it is pushing up some broad measures of inflation and increasing the risk that workers, business executives and investors will begin assuming that higher inflation is inevitable.
In its statement, the Fed noted that recent economic reports indicate "that the expansion of aggregate demand has moderated to a pace closer to the enhanced rate of growth of the economy's potential to produce."
Gains in productivity "also continue to help contain costs and hold down underlying price pressures," the statement said.
On the other hand, the statement said, "utilization of the pool of available workers remains at an unusually high level," and higher oil prices pose "a risk of raising inflation expectations."
Using its boilerplate language to signal that it remains more likely to raise rates in the future than to cut them, the Fed said that "the risks continue to be weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate heightened inflation pressures in the future."
Economists said the Fed was now likely to remain on hold for months or possibly through next year, since the economy seems to have achieved or to be close to the proverbial soft landing -- a slowdown sufficient to squelch inflation pressures without endangering the expansion.
After growing 8.3 percent in last year's fourth quarter, 4.8 percent in the first quarter and 5.6 percent in the second quarter, the economy is projected by many analysts to have expanded at about 3.5 percent in the third quarter.
Fed officials think the economy's long-term noninflationary growth rate is around 4 percent. Fed policy next year is likely to hinge on whether growth stays below that level or accelerates above it again.
"I'm almost willing to say we've landed, but that's not the end of the story, it's the beginning," said Robert V. DiClemente, an economist at Salomon Smith Barney. "You either refuel or you get hit with something else."
There are several signs that the economy could take off again. Consumer spending has shown considerable resilience, even though the stock market has run out of steam this year, and mortgage rates have fallen substantially in recent months, suggesting that housing could continue to support strong growth rates.
Energy prices are another wild card, one that the Fed made clear it remains concerned about.
But Stephen D. Slifer, chief United States economist at Lehman Brothers, said energy accounted for 7 percent of economic output now, down from 14 percent in 1980, so the economy was far less vulnerable to an oil price shock than it used to be.
Mr. Slifer said President Clinton's willingness to tap the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserve should also limit the chances of any big spike in oil prices, which in any case have been coming down somewhat from their recent peak a few weeks ago. 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 21, 2000, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
The global stocks table in the World Business section on Oct. 4 misstated the closing number for the Johannesburg Top 25 industrial index and its performance this year to date. It closed on Oct. 3, at 9,307.86, not 9,173.43. Through Oct. 3, the index was up 2.32 percent in South African rand (not 0.85 percent), and down 12.81 percent in dollars (not 14 percent).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM DOW JONES & CO INC (55%); DOW JONES & CO INC (55%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INFLATION (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2000



100 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000

SECTION: Section W; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS;
Piracy a Concern as the China Trade Opens Up

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Oct. 4

 BODY:
The Chinese government has promised long and loud to protect intellectual property rights as a member of the global trade world. But now, the Communist Party itself has fallen victim to copyright pirates: a party-sponsored anticorruption film is available across the country in illegal digital and celluloid versions.
The Shanghai Film Studio, which released the film "Life-and-Death Choice" in June as part of the party's anticorruption drive, says pirated copies are being shown in state-run cinemas in many provinces. The studio says its employees have been beaten and harassed while trying to seize illegal prints of the film. 
 This is a worrisome sign for people anticipating China's entry to the World Trade Organization and the market-opening changes that the country says will come with it. The persistent piracy of the anticorruption film shows how hard it is for even the Communist Party to protect its interests in a country where law enforcement is marked by periodic high-profile campaigns followed by a gradual relaxation to the status quo. As China rounds the last corner of its circuitous, 14-year route to the global commerce club, the question remains: How much can Beijing deliver on the promises it has made?
Beijing's leaders might be sincere in their vows to fellow W.T.O. members, but China's central government is more like an emperor trying to control a far-flung network of unruly fiefs than an all-seeing Big Brother whose commands are instantly obeyed.
The patent and copyright theft "is very difficult to stop because law enforcement is not enough and there is regional protectionism in many different places," said He Zizhuang, one of the film's screenwriters.
If Beijing cannot enforce rules that are clearly understood by everyone, there may be little hope that the government can quickly carry out some of the more complex trade regulations demanded by the W.T.O.
Last week, Sun Yuxi, a Foreign Ministry spokesman, told reporters that "the Chinese government will adopt a serious and responsible attitude to honor its commitments so as to implement all the agreements it has pledged with various members of the W.T.O."
Comforting as those words were, they sounded disconcertingly similar to the assurances given by China's former foreign trade minister, Wu Yi, after she signed another big trade agreement with the United States five years ago.
Headlines in American newspapers trumpeted that accord as heralding the end of rampant copyright piracy in China, which had brought the two countries to the brink of a multibillion-dollar trade war. Yet copyright piracy is still common.
The Business Software Alliance, which is based in Washington, estimated that 91 percent of the software used in China last year had been stolen -- a slight drop from 1994. Pirated editions of popular books often circulate in larger numbers than the legal editions. The latest Harry Potter book, for example, is already on store shelves, although the legal publication for China is days away. And the country's fast-growing Internet has opened new vistas of copyright piracy, as it has in the United States and elsewhere.
After a recent, legal matinee here of "Life-and-Death Choice," Liu Changping, who works for a taxi company and is a party member, declared the movie "very moving," and then left with his wife through the theater's lobby, where hundreds of pirated video disks of Chinese and American films were on sale. Some recent Hollywood hits, including "Gladiator" and "Shanghai Noon," were also available on DVD for about $2 each, less than half the price of the legal versions.
A saleswoman said she was sold out of "Life-and-Death Choice." But down the street at the Shengli Art Cinema, which was also showing the movie, plenty of pirated copies were for sale.
Mr. Liu did not blink at the flagrant display of piracy or see any incongruity in its existence at the same place where the anticorruption movie was being shown. Such abuses apparently are so common as to be invisible to most Chinese.
The Ministry of Culture recently urged all the departments that are responsible for regulating the audiovisual market to crack down on piracy of the anticorruption movie.
All party members have been told to see the film, which recounts a stalwart party member's battle against pervasive graft. Tickets or video disks are bought by local party organizations with member dues. Thanks to the built-in market, more than nine million people have seen the movie. By mid-September, it had grossed $12 million -- more than any locally produced film in the last 10 years. The orchestrated success has made the film a natural target for copyright pirates.
Protecting intellectual property rights is just one small part of what China promises it will do as a member of the W.T.O. Other accommodations are more arcane and less easily put in place at the local level, partly because few people yet have any idea exactly what the trade organization requires.
In mid-January, President Jiang Zemin will preside over a meeting meant to educate top officials, including all the provincial governors, on the finer points of W.T.O. membership.
But Lu Zhiqiang, deputy director of the Development Research Center, an affiliate of the State Council, said few people understood the new trade requirements well enough to act as teachers. "Few serious studies have ever been conducted about relevant laws on foreign trade, overseas investment and rules and regulations of the W.T.O. so that Chinese firms can meet challenges while undertaking their obligations," he said in a recent China Daily article.
Nor is the United States likely to have the firepower to force China to follow the agreement.
In June, a request by President Clinton for $21 million to monitor compliance with trade accords, with a focus on China, failed to make it onto an appropriations bill in the House of Representatives.
The House did increase the budget of the United States trade representative's office by $3 million, and some of that money may be used for monitoring. But that is hardly enough to track compliance with a complex agreement in a $1 trillion economy.
Already, even while China is very much in the spotlight as it prepares for entry to the W.T.O., the country seems to be backtracking: it has tried to delay the agreed-upon phasing out of certain tariffs on information technology products.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Even the Communist Party's film "Life-and-Death Choice," which was made to fight corruption, has been a victim of widespread piracy. Men wait outside a theater in Beijing for the movie to be shown. (Jeffrey Aaronson/Network Aspen for The New York Times); Traffic in illegal editions of movies is conducted openly, as in this shop in Shanghai, where a woman is labeling pirated DVD's. The Communist Party's anticorruption film is being shown in the same building. (Craig S. Smith for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: LIFE-AND-DEATH CHOICE (MOVIE)

INDUSTRY: SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (61%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

COMPANY: SHANGHAI FILM STUDIO; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION ACCORD AS (61%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHANGHAI FILM STUDIO; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EAST CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COPYRIGHTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); CORRUPTION (90%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); PATENT LAW (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); COPYRIGHT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); POLITICS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); TRADE DISPUTES (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); WRITERS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (60%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (50%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CRAIG S WU YI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



101 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 5; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1888 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK;
Interior City: Hotel As the New Cosmopolis

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
DESIGN euphoria finally has a New York home. Ian Schrager's new hotel, the Hudson, contains a thousand guest rooms, a suite of public rooms and an outdoor garden, but the main attraction is the imagination with which Mr. Schrager and Philippe Starck have redesigned the face of the cosmopolitan idea. For the city of strangers, they have proposed an aesthetic of strangeness. It's a match.
The Hudson, which opened Tuesday on 58th Street between Eighth and Ninth Avenues, pumps up New York's legendary status as a noble social experiment. It also brings Mr. Schrager into focus as one of the outstanding social scientists of our time. How much rejection will people risk for the sake of feeling accepted? How much unfamiliarity can they tolerate? Sociologists routinely address questions along these lines. In Mr. Schrager's environments, people get to live the questions. 
 How much design can people tolerate? How many people are willing to pay for a room in which all but a few inches of floor space is covered by the mattress? How do you create a raving, Dionysian bar scene without repelling the Apollonian creative types you would also like to attract? These are a few of the experiments that will be conducted on paying volunteers inside the Hudson hotel.
But this project also raises questions about the city outside its doors. Why has New York architecture been driven inside? What does it mean that talented architects of Mr. Starck's generation are lucky if they get to work on loft, restaurant and store interiors? What does this portend for a city that takes civic pride in its cosmopolitan composition?
I have always loved hotels, and I never tire of Philippe Starck. I could live serenely in one of the Hudson's small $95-a-night bedrooms. Each is a perfect pillbox, your daily vitamin of space. The minimum requirements include a queen-size bed, little reading lamps with shades that reproduce watercolors by Francesco Clemente, and an emaciated desk. Perfect for writing spare prose. Only the slimmest laptops need apply.
You enter the room through a tiny hall: for a room this size, any hall feels extravagant. Shower/bath on the left. Storage on the right. A mini-stereo set and a mini-minibar. A mini-window above the headboard, and that's it. Suites are available, starting at $150, but why bother. Sleep small. Dream big. That's the Hudson idea. It's an Eloise concept. The grown-up world as seen through children's eyes.
At the Hudson, everything is a play on scale, from the stretch-version "Vertigo" escalators at the entrance to the bento box rooms upstairs. Just the thought of a 1,000-room Schrager hotel is a wild exaggeration. This boutique hotel is designed for Gulliver's travels.
IS design the new lingua franca for global travelers? Thomas Fisher, dean of the college of architecture and landscape architecture at the University of Minnesota, is dedicating a new division of his school to that idea. And why not? Design has functioned throughout history as a system of signs. Check out Chartres. Now it serves as a communications medium for the new economy. Checkout and check-in.
Post-literate people will feel most welcome at the Hudson. At the entrance, no name, no letters, no typography disturb the design. Instead, there is a torch with an eternal flame, suspended beside a doorway sheathed with chartreuse glass. In colonial days, hospitality was symbolized by carved wooden pineapples placed by the door. At the Hudson, citron twists are evidently the fruit of choice.
Just inside the entrance there will be gift shops specializing in the well-designed traveler's needs. But if you're checking in, you will want to step aboard the escalator that carries you up two floors through a narrow tunnel bathed with yellow-green light. You will feel like a sip of margarita rising through a straw. (Carry your own paper umbrella.)
The main lobbies of all grand hotels are stage sets. At the Hudson, the play appears to take place in a lively town square. There ought to be gesticulating extras milling about in a crowd scene, saying things like "cheese and crackers, cheese and crackers," while pretending to converse among themselves. The centerpiece of this square, in effect its statue or fountain, is a long wooden desk carved with a mock-Bavarian motif, and an enormous Baccarat chandelier with hologram candles designed by Ingo Maurer.
The lobby is ringed with the sort of refreshment spots you would expect to find in a well-appointed piazza. Only a Surrealist sense of surprise unites the different styles in which the public rooms are designed. Collegiate Gothic is the motif in the restaurant, or Cafeteria, as it is called here. Heavy brown curtains. Heavy oak chairs. Refectory tables with heavy oak benches. The effect is "The Belles of St. Trinian's": a gang of louche students running amok in the seedy boarding school that now occupies a former stately home.
The bar is Kubrick territory. The translucent floor, illuminated from beneath, sets off tables and chairs like game pieces on a board. Make your move toward a Regency side chair with silicone cushions. Or pull up a log, equipped with backrests, designed by the Dutch firm Droog. Overhead, a fresco by Mr. Clemente brings back memories of similar work executed by the artist for the Palladium, an earlier Schrager experiment. To my eye, the ceiling creates a stronger impact than the installation conceived for the Guggenheim Museum's Clemente retrospective last year.
More post-literacy awaits in the Library, a room of clublike ambience with bookshelves that wrap around the walls. But the shelves are too high to reach. They are pitched at balcony height, but there is no balcony, and no rolling ladder.
Lower down, however, are slanting, lecternlike shelves displaying art books. And desks with computer screens set into the surface. The room is dominated, however, by a pool table of British imperial aspirations, and the immense metallic shade of the Ingo Maurer lamp suspended above.
Eloise will take over the park. She will not want for attention here. Installed in the courtyard between the building's two wings, the so-called Private Park has been conceived as a theater: the play within the play. Readings and recitals will be offered, along with drinks and snacks, while the guest rooms looking onto the garden will form tier upon tier of private boxes.
A glass roof partly encloses the park, which is furnished with huge topiary pots, an immense rake and other grossly inflated garden tools. But some may find that the most gracious touch is the existing balustrade overlooking West 57th Street. Classic Georgian in style, it is an icon for gracious prewar city life, as well as a fine place to perch and pose.
The dream logic of Mr. Starck's design invites the possibility that things could turn nightmarish. At any moment, the brick walls of the park might dissolve and we would behold a scene out of Genet. From the courtyard of a vast panopticon, we would see road warriors in their terry cloth robes, isolated in $95 cells, grimly wishing away the confinement with flicks of the speed dial. Let's wander over to the Library, where Alba Clemente is reading aloud selected passages from Cocteau's "Voix Humaine" to an audience of crows and pigeons.
It strikes me that Mr. Starck may be feeling at home with himself. What is notable about the Hudson is that few pieces of furniture bear the designer's tradmark. Instead, he has curated environments that include furnishings by other well-known designers (Charles and Ray Eames, Ingo Maurer, Droog), along with generic examples of period styles. Executed with precision and spirit by Anda Andrei and Michael Overington, longtime players on Mr. Schrager's team, the result is more relaxed, more diverse, less insistent on controlling the atmosphere.
I F I had the means, I would furnish each room with a copy of Bonnie Menes Kahn's wonderful book, "Cosmopolitan Culture: The Gilt-Edged Dream of a Tolerant City" (Atheneum, 1988). The book is not quite Eloise. It is a grown-up valentine to a certain ideal of city life. The cosmopolitan cities are the cities of great architecture, great art, great music, the cities of great renown, Ms. Kahn writes. It is no accident that where the stranger is welcome, there is both tolerance and genius.
She has many provocative things to say about the social forces that make and break a great cosmopolis, but the key to it all is the spirit of tolerance for strangers. I'd go further and say that what makes the difference is a ravenous appetite for strangers, even an inexhaustible desire to be a stranger. Night life flourishes on this principle. The great Peter Gay, writing on Weimar Berlin, termed this phenomenon the outsider as insider. This idea is dramatized at the Hudson. It is a "Mahagonny," "I Am a Camera," "Street Song" world.
Which isn't to say that everyone will feel comfortable here. New York is the most judgmental city in the world, and the Hudson can't help keeping up that tradition, too. It helps to be a certain kind of narcissist, the type who never throws a fit to get attention because he always assumes he's getting it, even when he's being ignored. It also helps to be a creative type with more dash than cash, as Vogue used to call it.
The Hudson is a refuge for such people, and for all those who crave what is lacking in the city outside: the realization of contemporaneity in public, urban space. Think about what happens in the street: you make a split-second decision whether to marry, kill or stare right through everybody who comes walking toward you on the sidewalk. This complex of reactions is primal, uncivilized, self-centered, basic, romantic and normal. They are tolerant and intolerant at the same time. They wouldn't work with people you know. They depend on your tolerance for strangers. Variations on this experience can be found in music, publishing, theater, dance and any other quarter of the city where cultural values hold sway.
The Hudson transposes the street dynamic into a compact indoor version. Like it, hate it, like it, hate it. A man with a bad toupee walks through. Oh, the humanity! Oh, the unstylishness! This is the worst thing that ever happened in the world! But if you feel at home here, it's because you enjoy being a stranger among strangers, and the sense of freedom that arises from it.
Mr. Starck has codified that sensation in color, scale, light and space. It can, he shows, be done. And that's not a minor lesson in New York at a time when the city's builders have become addicted to an architecture that merely reassures us with signs of the all too familiar. In this sense, the Hudson is a ghetto for architecture, an art form for which New York has developed almost zero tolerance over the years, an art that must now be practiced in privacy between consenting adults.
The Hudson has an unmarked entrance, elevators for mass transit, a brick air shaft for a park and a public library with a pool table. Community boards can't shut it down, the Landmarks Commission can't declare it inappropriate and city planners can't subject it to the approval of so-called design advisers. Imagine the possibilities if the city at large were to be liberated from the intolerance coded within such restraints.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: STRANGERS IN A STRANGE LAND -- The Hudson bar (ceiling by Francesco Clemente); visitors are sipped through a citron straw on the neon ride up; inset, rooms crisp and small as a pocket handkerchief. (Photographs by Antoine Bootz for The New York Times)(pg. F1); A CITY BUILT INDOORS -- The Hudson hotel includes a public library with pool table of British imperial aspirations and an immense Ingo Maurer lamp, above left, as well as several artful "parks" that city planners could learn from. Above, view from the courtyard to the lobby, envisioned as a lively town square (also seen at left below, with chandelier). In the center photo strip at left and right, two views of the cafeteria with tables for dining solo or community style; center, the chic facade. Below, Brobdingnagian garden tools on the terrace await Gullivers on their travels. Half the 1,000 rooms will be priced at $95; small suites, top right, start at $150. Chips and mixers too big for mini-minibars are dispensed stylishly in corridor automats, above. (Photographs by Antoine Bootz for The New York Times)(pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: HUDSON HOTEL (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: HUDSON HOTEL (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; INTERIOR DESIGN; ARCHITECTURE SOCIOLOGY (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (85%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (79%); CHILDREN (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); PAINTING (64%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT; SCHRAGER, IAN IAN SCHRAGER (72%); PHILIPPE STARCK (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



102 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 3; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: Paris Biennale: Where U.S.A. Meets F.F.F.

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MASON 

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
THIS is just a little pied-a-terre," said Susan Gutfreund, the New York hostess and aspiring decorator, thus stretching the credulity of more than 40 attentive American interior designers ogling the palatial splendor of her triplex in the chic Seventh Arrondissement.
Furnished by the legendary designer Henri Samuel with exquisite 18th-century paneling and objets d'art, Ms. Gutfreund's apartment was delectable bait used to attract young, successful designers from across the United States to the Biennale International des Antiquaires, the world's most glamorous -- and outrageously expensive -- antiques fair. 
 The three-day romp was part of an aggressive marketing campaign conceived by the Biennale's organizers, the National Antiques Dealers Syndicate, who hoped to lure record numbers of platinum-card-wielding American customers.
"Let's face it, Americans are the ones who are buying," said Brian McCarthy, a New York designer who travels to Paris every six weeks for clients who lust for Louis XV commodes. "We're their bread-and-butter."
Judging by the Dallas drawls and Yankee twangs on opening night, the syndicate's efforts paid off. The exchange rate of the franc to the dollar -- seven to one -- didn't hurt, either.
By the time the two-week fair closed on Oct. 1, several dealers reported that more than 60 percent of their sales were heading for the United States, including a $1 million Chinese bronze lamp bought from the Brussels dealer Gisele Croes. "I think we speak more English this evening than French," said Jacques Perrin, a leading Paris dealer and a vice president of the syndicate.
Mr. Perrin sold a magnificent Louis XVI gilded bronze clock and a pair of elaborate 18th-century armchairs to a New York financier during the gala preview of the show, held at the Carrousel du Louvre, a subterranean sprawl beneath the museum's Pyramid. "All exceptional objects, museum quality," he said.
Out of 116 hand-picked dealers, only 10 were purveyors of 20th-century objects. Nonetheless, that was twice as many as last year, and the booths offering French furniture from the 1930's and 40's proved wildly popular, perhaps inspired by Karl Lagerfeld's abrupt switch from collecting 18th-century gilt to the clean, lean contemporary lines of furniture by Jean-Michel Frank. "It's a style that feels totally right today, the perfect antidote to all the clutter we had in the 80's," said John Barman, a New York designer.
"Everything I sold this evening was to Americans," said Pierre Passebon, a first-time Biennale participant, whose spectacular lineup included a rare Surrealist chandelier by Giacometti in the shape of a woman's breast, and a pair of gleaming hall chairs designed by Emilio Terry for Carlos de Beistegui's home in Paris ($71,000). Equally intriguing was the booth itself, which was also for sale: a handsome padded-leather smoking room designed by Frank in 1935 for the Paris home of Jean-Pierre Guerlain, the perfumer.
Mr. Passebon declined to reveal which Americans had bought his treasures. But Leon Black, an insatiable New York collector of French decorative arts, was seen gazing at two vertical Giacometti lamps with proprietary ardor.
Some American plutocrats chose to stay home, to the chagrin of their decorators. "One of my clients wouldn't come because of the Concorde," lamented Matthew Smyth, a New York designer, who nonetheless shopped with Wall Street titans brave enough to endure the trans-Atlantic trip in first class.
The inconvenient suspension of supersonic flights to Paris didn't deter Darlene and Anthony Soave, a couple from Michigan, who were shopping up a storm with their New York decorator, Tony Ingrao, and his partner, Randy Kemper.
"It's our first Biennale," Ms. Soave said, flashing an ice-rink-size D-flawless diamond ring as she passed the stand of Francois Leage, a Parisian dealer who specializes in 18th-century objects. "They're doing all the paneling for our ballroom in Grosse Pointe."
A French 18th-century ballroom in suburban Detroit? "The panels are Louis XIV, from a town house in the Place Vendome," Mr. Ingrao explained. "But we have to make more, because their new ballroom is so huge. It's a three-year project -- the whole house is going to be 18th century."
Mr. Soave, the son of a grocer who worked his way up to a scrap-metal fortune, also hired Mr. Ingrao to design the Soaves' apartment in Naples, Fla., and a modern Manhattan duplex in the new Trump World Tower across from the United Nations. "We're on the 88th floor, the same as Bill Gates," Ms. Soave said sweetly.
Larry Laslo, a New York designer, was aghast at the multimillion-dollar prices. "All I've bought so far is a jambon sandwich," he said.
Given the astronomical sums involved, some designers on a Biennale trip organized by Elle Decor were shopping elsewhere. "You see the prices and cringe," said Charles Spada, an interior designer from Boston, who keeps a small apartment in Paris as a base for his frequent shopping expeditions.
"They're definitely not going to get any money out of me," Mr. Spada said cheerfully during a lunch at the Louvre underwritten by Hachette Filipacchi, Elle Decor's parent company, to introduce designers to top dealers at the Biennale. "I'm heading for the flea market," he said. Two days later, he had filled an entire 40-foot container with treasures to be sent by his shipper, Camus, to his antique stores in Boston and on Nantucket.
For some designers, the trip was a novel opportunity to engage the attention of Margaret Russell, Elle Decor's new editor in chief, who inherited the Paris trip when the magazine's former editor, Marian McEvoy, left to take charge at House Beautiful in mid-July.
While Ms. Russell is revered for her clean, American taste and her gimlet eye for identifying designers of promise, she made no claims to being an antiques aficionado. When asked her reaction to the Biennale's impressive array of F.F.F. (the industry shorthand for fine French furniture), Ms. Russell looked bewildered. "What's that?" she asked.
On matters like this, she defers to Angus Wilkie, Elle Decor's well-connected antiques columnist, whom she recently promoted to editor at large. "Angus's expertise is a wonderful asset to the magazine," she said. That expertise will presumably come in handy when Elle Decor succeeds Town & Country as the main sponsor of the Winter Antiques Show at the 67th Street armory in January.
Among the American designers with clients in tow spending serious sums was Scott Snyder, who is based in Palm Beach and Manhattan. "We just bought a beautiful 18th-century black lacquer gaming table," said Mr. Snyder, who was accompanying his client Lewis Foman, elegantly attired in a black silk suit. Like just about every other American of means at the Biennale, Ms. Foman owns a house in Palm Beach and an apartment in Paris, where she intends to install her gaming table.
"With the American economy so strong, we're inundated with clients from New York and California looking for apartments in Paris," said William Holloway, who set up the Paris office for Sotheby's International Realty two years ago.
"Usually, we show apartments in the half-a-million-to-a-million-dollar range," Mr. Holloway explained. "But with everyone in town for the Biennale, there's more demand for apartments and houses from $1 million to $15 million. I guess when people buy furniture at the Biennale, they figure they need somewhere to put it."
To the glee of Parisian dealers, Henry and Marie-Josee Kravis recently purchased an enormous apartment in the Seventh Arrondissement. The New York financier and his French-Canadian wife discreetly prowled the aisles of the Biennale one afternoon with their French decorator, Francois-Joseph Graf, selecting furniture of impeccable palace provenance.
Such is the awe -- and sense of financial expectation -- the Kravises aroused that dealers swiftly drew gilded ropes across the entrance of their booths to keep the less affluent away as the formidable threesome stepped in.
For some, the exotic spending was a little disconcerting. "The problem is, our museum is so poor," lamented E. John Bullard, the director of the New Orleans Museum of Art, after touring the Biennale. "As a lady on this trip said, 'Twenty-five million dollars barely furnishes a room, does it?' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: LEAN AND CLEAN -- Jean-Michel Frank's 1935 room was a hit where Fine French Furniture (18th century) once reigned. (Gary Gunderson for The New York Times)(pg. F1); TOP DRAWER -- Right, Brian McCarthy with Susan Gutfreund, center, and Margaret Russell. Below right, Jacques Grange, Veronica Hearst and Leon Black. Above, Count d'Artois chairs. Left, Leage booth grand paneling. (Photographs by Gary Gunderson for The New York Times)(pg. F4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (90%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

COMPANY: BIENNALE INTERNATIONAL (90%); NEW YORK (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

SUBJECT: ANTIQUES; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS; BIENNALE INTERNATIONAL DES ANTIQUARIES ANTIQUE COLLECTING (89%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERIOR DECORATING (78%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (75%); FURNITURE STORES (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); EXCHANGE RATES (66%); TRADE SHOWS (60%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (54%); 

PERSON: MASON, CHRISTOPHER ANTHONY SOAVE (66%); TONY INGRAO (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



103 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Jakarta Won't Pardon Suharto Son; Orders Militia Chief's Arrest

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Oct. 4

 BODY:
Trying to send a message that widespread violence and corruption will no longer be tolerated in Indonesia, President Abdurrahman Wahid refused today to pardon the convicted son of Suharto, the former dictator, and ordered the arrest of the country's most notorious militia leader.
But Mr. Wahid's actions could lead to further unrest. Violence and public disorder have erupted during past government efforts to bring the Suharto family and the militias to justice, underscoring the difficulty of this impoverished country's struggle to forge a democracy after decades of authoritarian rule. 
 After returning from an overseas trip today, Mr. Wahid said he would not grant clemency to Mr. Suharto's son, Hutomo Mandala Putra, whom the Supreme Court has sentenced to 18 months in prison for his role in a multimillion-dollar land scam. Mr. Hutomo, who is known as Tommy Suharto, admitted his guilt on Tuesday and pleaded for a presidential pardon to avoid jail.
The president replied, "No," when asked by reporters if he would intervene on behalf of Mr. Hutomo, whom he has also accused of being behind recent bomb attacks in Jakarta that prosecutors said were intended to derail a separate corruption case against his father. Last week, a court ruled former President Suharto unfit to stand trial.
It remains unclear whether or when the government plans to arrest Mr. Hutomo. His lawyers have asserted that he cannot be taken into custody until his request for clemency is formally processed. The lawyers said they planned to appeal the conviction. Prosecutors said on Tuesday that Mr. Hutomo would remain free in the interim, a decision that student groups have said is likely to result in violent protests.
Under growing international pressure to stop the bloodshed in divided Timor, the police arrested Eurico Guterres, central leader of the pro-Indonesia militia groups that have caused havoc on the West Timor border. The police apprehended Mr. Guterres in a hotel in downtown Jakarta, but the authorities gave conflicting reasons for his arrest aside from the president's order.
The national police chief, Gen. Suroyo Bimantoro, said Mr. Guterres had been arrested on weapons charges for instructing his followers not to surrender their guns during a recent government campaign to disarm the gangs. They are accused of having killed three United Nations workers in West Timor last month. The police said they had arrested two militia members in West Timor in connection with those killings and were pursuing four others.
But the state news agency Antara quoted police officials as saying Mr. Guterres had been arrested for taking part in the destruction of an office of the United Nations high commissioner on refugees in the West Timor border town of Atambua on Sept. 6.
The aid workers were killed in the rampage. The United States and the World Bank have warned Indonesia that it could lose vital aid if it did not disband the militias.
"Eurico Guterres was arrested after there was enough evidence for him to become a suspect in the destruction and burning of the U.N.H.C.R. office in Atambua," said a police superintendent, Saleh Saaf, according to Antara. He did not say whether Mr. Guterres was a suspect in the United Nations killings, but the agency said he could face more than five years in jail for incitement.
Early this week, Mr. Guterres warned that his followers would unleash a new wave of violence if he was arrested. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (93%); 

COMPANY: ;UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; EAST TIMOR; WEST TIMOR (INDONESIA); INDONESIA (94%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES PARDONS (91%); CORRUPTION (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); ARREST WARRANTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); REFUGEES (89%); POLICE FORCES (86%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (84%); LAWYERS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); APPEALS (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); POLITICS (73%); RIOTS (73%); NEWS REPORTING (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%); IMMIGRATION (68%); BOMBINGS (66%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN; WAHID, ABDURRAHMAN (PRES); HUTOMO MANDALA PUTRA; SUHARTO; GUTERRES, EURICO TOMMY SUHARTO (90%); HUTOMO MANDALA PUTRA (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



104 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Don't blame deregulation for airline problems. Blame not enough deregulation.

BYLINE: By Virginia Postrel; This column appears here every Thursday. Virginia Postrel is the editor at large of Reason magazine and the author of "The Future and Its Enemies: The Growing Conflict Over Creativity, Enterprise, and Progress." Four economic analysts -- Ms. Postrel, Jeff Madrick, Alan B. Krueger and Hal R. Varian -- rotate as contributors.

 BODY:
AIR travel is no fun, especially for people who do a lot of it.
Airplanes and airports are crowded, and delays are far too common. Throw in the lost luggage and crying babies, and you have a recipe for unhappy frequent fliers. 
 It's fashionable to blame deregulation for all this annoyance, and there is a small element of truth in that. The problem is not that deregulation has failed but that it has been a smashing success. Flying is no longer limited to an exclusive club.
Back when the federal government controlled prices and routes, air travel connected fewer different places, offered less convenient schedules and cost a lot more. On average, fares are down 27 percent from the old regulated prices, after correcting for inflation, according to calculations by two economists, Steven A. Morrison at Northeastern University in Boston and Cliford Winston of the Brookings Institution. Although some people do pay more, particularly those who want the convenience of last-minute travel, 80 percent of passengers are paying less than they would have under the old government-set prices.
At the same time, many more cities are connected by air, largely thanks to the hub-and-spoke arrangements airlines instituted after deregulation.
And having to switch from one airline to another in midtrip, which was common before deregulation allowed any airline to serve any destination, is nearly unheard of.
The result of all this is that more people are flying than ever before. Since 1978, when the federal government eliminated its controls, the number of domestic passengers has more than doubled, from 254 million in 1978 to 582 million in 1999. The number of passenger miles flown has skyrocketed from 183 billion in 1978 to 480 billion last year.
Even accounting for such negatives as Saturday night stays to get low fares and longer flight times because of congestion or hub-and-spoke plane changes, Professor Morrison and Dr. Winston peg the net benefit of deregulation at more than $20 billion a year, or about $80 for every American man, woman and child -- a pretty decent tax cut that ripples through the economy as it lowers the cost of business travel as well as personal trips.
The complaint that deregulation has failed because too many lowly salesmen and vacationing families are filling up the planes is silly. That is exactly what deregulation was supposed to do.
The real question is whether a free market in air travel has to be so unpleasant. If the customers are unhappy, why doesn't the market adjust?
The problem, Dr. Winston says, is that "government failure has undermined what deregulation was trying to accomplish." Deregulation freed the airlines to innovate and compete, but the airports and air traffic control system are still owned and operated by government agencies. They are essentially static institutions run through a combination of technocratic central planning and political log-rolling. The free market in airline travel still relies on socialist infrastructure.
As a result, airports and air traffic control have neither the flexibility nor the incentives to operate efficiently. Instead, they tend to ration their services by making customers wait.
Airports have to charge landing fees based on the airplanes' weight, for instance, not the demand at a particular time of day. So small planes can tie up traffic at the busiest times and pay virtually nothing for the privilege.
Or consider air traffic control. Unlike private network services, like phone companies or Internet service providers, the air traffic control system cannot charge its customers directly. The Federal Aviation Administration, which operates it, has to go to Congress for new appropriations every year. (Passengers pay a ticket tax, but it isn't tied to how the money is spent.)
So when traffic goes up, the system does not automatically have the money to expand by investing in new equipment and hiring more controllers. It cannot make long-term investment plans because it doesn't have a predictable revenue stream. And like airports, the air traffic control system cannot adjust pricing to demand -- charging more at busy times of the day -- or easily try new technologies or techniques.
The result is a system on the verge of gridlock. For the first nine months of 1999, the average number of air traffic control delays of 15 minutes or more jumped to 1,091 a day from 886 in 1998 and 677 in 1997, according to the Air Transport Association, an airline trade group.
The system is clearly being taxed given current pricing, investment and technology, Dr. Winston says. If there were efficient pricing, investment and technology, it could accommodate more. But that is unlikely to happen, he believes, as long as the system is run by the government.
And things are going to become worse for the very reason that airlines and aircraft manufacturers are responding to consumer demand for more convenient travel. Until recently, traveling from midsize cities like Wichita, Kan., or Rochester usually meant taking a turboprop and changing planes in a hub somewhere. But new regional jets that carry 37 to 70 passengers are making it profitable to offer point-to-point service from many more markets.
My colleague Robert W. Poole Jr., director of transportation studies at the Reason Public Policy Institute, calls regional jets the third wave of deregulation, promising a breathtaking expansion of point-to-point service to hundreds of new pairs of cities. But, he warns, this great news for travelers also means that the number of takeoffs will double the next 15 years. And that will further strain the air traffic control system.
Beginning just this week, in fact, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey has forbidden airlines to add any new regional flights in and out of La Guardia Airport during peak hours -- a measure aimed largely at small jets.
Such heavy-handed rationing is not the only possible solution to congestion.
Along with congestion pricing, Mr. Poole, an aerospace engineer by training, points to new satellite-based navigation technologies that could expand air traffic capacity as much as 50 percent at busy airports, including La Guardia.
To bring the aviation system in line with the demands of travelers, Mr. Poole advocates shifting air travel infrastructure to the private sector, beginning by privatizing the air traffic control system. He points to Canada's commercialized system, Nav Canada, as a model. A nonprofit corporation owned by its users -- the board includes representatives of airlines, the government, business-aircraft users and the air traffic controllers' union -- Nav Canada has the flexibility and financing base the United States system lacks.
Dr. Winston concurs. And, he suggests, the crisis in air traffic control may be just the push politicians need to take the next step in deregulating air travel. Privatization will not do anything about crying babies, but it could cut down on those delays.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Taking Off"
Since deregulation of the U.S. airline industry in 1978, the number of passengers has nearly tripled.
 
Graph tracks the number of airline passengers, in millions, since 1978. (Source: Air Transport Association)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; AIRPORTS; AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL; INDUSTRY PROFILES; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION); PRIVATIZATION DEREGULATION (97%); AIRLINES (91%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (77%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); FAMILY (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TAX LAW (60%); 

PERSON: POSTREL, VIRGINIA; POOLE, ROBERT W JR CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



105 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasuries Are Mixed; Analysts Focus on Oil and Job Outlook

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Bond prices were mixed yesterday, a day after the Federal Reserve left short-term interest rates unchanged but reaffirmed its belief that low unemployment and high oil prices could lead to higher inflation. 
 Despite a modest decline in the price of crude oil yesterday, bond trading was quiet, punctuated by a small improvement in longer-maturity issues. A Commerce Department report showing a 2 percent rise in August factory orders, slightly above expectations, had little effect on Treasuries.
The price of the closely followed 10-year Treasury note fell 6/32, to 99, while its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 5.88 percent from 5.86 percent on Tuesday. The 30-year bond rose 1/32, to 104 11/32. Its yield was unchanged at 5.94 percent.
With the Fed in the role of observer at this point, some market participants think that any substantial movements in the next few weeks could come in reaction to energy or stock prices.
"The bond market's inability to rally significantly in the face of the stock market's sell-off on Tuesday indicates that it doesn't have the potential to move higher at this point," said Robert Pugliese, senior vice president and fixed-income director at J. W. Genesis Financial in Boca Raton, Fla. "It will take a major catalyst to get things going, a sharp directional change in the stock market or oil prices."
The Fed's rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee said on Tuesday that rising energy prices posed a risk of higher inflation and that it continued to be concerned that the use of available workers remained unusually high. The job situation will become clearer tomorrow with the Labor Department's employment report for September.
"The Fed is still quite sensitive to the inflationary potential of a vibrant economy with an unemployment rate hovering near 4 percent," said Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Fleming Asset Management, "but the F.O.M.C. will stand pat and remain on hold for an extended period of time unless economic growth shifts direction sharply and/or inflationary pressures become truly threatening, neither of which appear to be on the radar screen at the moment."
"But since the degree of moderation in economic growth is still an open question at this juncture," he continued, "the bond market seems to be anxiously lying in wait in anticipation of Friday's labor market report for September, from which to take its directional cues."
Forecasts on the report vary widely, Mr. Fine noted, and after adjusting for workers returning from a strike against Verizon Communications and a reduction in temporary census workers, the predicted range runs from a tepid rise of 130,000 to a strong gain of 325,000. Projections for unemployment range from 4 percent to 4.2 percent.
Elsewhere, a week after a revision to correct an error in the Consumer Price Index cast a pall over the Treasury's inflation-protected securities program, officials announced yesterday that they planned to sell $5 billion of reopened inflation-indexed 30-year bonds next Wednesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since June. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (50%); VZ (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (50%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FREDDIE MAC WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (54%); CHASE FLEMING ASSET MANAGEMENT (52%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FREDDIE MAC US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (91%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BOND MARKETS (93%); BONDS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT (86%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); CENSUS (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT DONALD FINE (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



106 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1971 words

HEADLINE: Pushing Pills With Piles Of Money;
Merck and Pharmacia In Arthritis-Drug Battle

BYLINE: By MELODY PETERSEN 

 BODY:
Before the Olympic Games opened in Sydney last month, the aging gold medalists Bruce Jenner, Dorothy Hamill and Bart Conner were talking more about their arthritis than the coming events.
There's a good reason. All three athletes are being paid by either Merck or Pharmacia to appear on talk shows and speak to groups about the new prescription pain relievers that they are taking for their sore joints. 
 The testimonials are part of one of the fiercest and most expensive battles now being waged in the pharmaceutical business: the war between Merck's Vioxx and Pharmacia's Celebrex. Since last year, Merck and Pharmacia, which has hired the drug giant Pfizer to help sell its new drug, have each been spending tens of millions of dollars a month on marketing their new blockbuster pain relievers to patients and doctors.
The money is paying for television and print advertisements, for stipends to hundreds of doctors to speak on behalf of the drugs and for millions of free samples of the medications, known as Cox-2 inhibitors. Each side now has more than 4,000 representatives visiting doctors to promote the drugs.
They are not alone. All drugmakers are pouring resources into marketing, trying to please investors who have come to expect sales of a top drug to exceed $1 billion a year. While drug companies once waited for sales of a new drug to gradually take off, they now must sell as much of a drug as possible, just as soon as it hits pharmacy shelves. If not, they risk disappointing the very expectant stock analysts on Wall Street.
In the case of Vioxx and Celebrex, the marketing efforts have paid off handsomely for all three companies selling the drugs. In the history of the pharmaceutical industry, no other drugs have earned more money for their makers in their first year on the market, not even the anti-impotence drug Viagra. The companies expect to sell about $4 billion worth of the painkillers this year.
Both drugs are hot sellers, but Merck, long known for its research rather than its marketing, has surprised Wall Street by turning up the heat under Vioxx. Pharmacia began selling Celebrex six months before Vioxx arrived, but Merck has almost caught up. While Celebrex still outsells Vioxx, the Merck drug overtook the Pharmacia medication -- in terms of new prescriptions -- during the third week of September, according to statistics released this week by IMS Health, a health care information company.
Merck has become a more aggressive marketer because five of its best-selling drugs will lose their patent protection in the next two years. When a drug loses its patent, which grants exclusive ownership rights, less costly generic drugs can quickly eat into brand-name sales.
The new pain relievers are considered a scientific breakthrough by many doctors because, even though they have not been shown to relieve pain any better than widely available drugs like ibuprofen, they appear to have fewer side effects. In particular, studies by the companies have found the Cox-2 inhibitors lower the risk of developing ulcers, which in rare cases can be a dangerous side effect of anti-inflammatory pain relievers like aspirin and ibuprofen.
But the issue of side effects is not settled. The Food and Drug Administration still requires the companies to warn patients that the new drugs could cause ulcers.
The drugs have set off a debate among doctors over whether they are worth the attention that they have been given.
And, their popularity has alarmed health insurance companies, which have watched as the cost of caring for their arthritis patients has skyrocketed. Robert Seidman, vice president for pharmacy for Wellpoint Health Networks, an insurer in California, said that a monthly prescription for Celebrex cost about $86 -- eight times the cost of treating someone with generic prescription pain relievers. Vioxx is priced similarly to Celebrex.
Wellpoint, like most insurers, has tried to limit prescriptions of Celebrex and Vioxx by setting strict conditions for patients to meet before the company will pay for the drug.
"When you read the medical literature, maybe 5 to 6 percent of people are at risk" of developing a serious ulcer, Mr. Seidman said. "The vast majority of people have been comfortable with other drugs."
Despite such efforts, the expensive Cox-2 drugs are quickly replacing prescriptions written for generic pain relievers like ibuprofen, leading to a significant increase in costs to treat arthritis.
American sales of anti-inflammatory pain relievers, including Cox-2 drugs, rose 65 percent in the last 12 months, to $4.5 billion, according to IMS Health. Before the Cox-2's arrived, the market for anti-inflammatory drugs had been in decline.
The surge in sales came soon after the F.D.A. approved Celebrex on Dec. 31, 1998. Within days, executives at Pfizer and Monsanto, which developed the drug before being acquired last year by Pharmacia, started a huge campaign to teach physicians about Celebrex. They placed more calls to doctors than any company had ever done for any other drug, said Joseph C. Papa, president of Pharmacia's North American sales operation.
To educate consumers, Monsanto and Pfizer also enlisted members of the American Gastroenterological Association in a campaign paid for by the companies that encouraged people with arthritis and other patients to take a quiz to see if they might be at risk for developing serious ulcers. Those found to be at risk were encouraged to talk to their doctor.
Pharmacia's marketing was so effective, in fact, that it gave its rival Vioxx a boost. By the time the F.D.A. approved Vioxx, in May 1999, doctors and consumers were well versed in the benefits of the Cox-2 drugs, making Merck's job far easier.
Merck quickly started spending millions of dollars on consumer advertising and even began a commercial on television a month before Pharmacia started a major TV ad campaign. During the first four months of this year, Merck spent $67 million to advertise Vioxx to consumers, according to Scott-Levin, a consulting concern. That was more than any company spent to advertise any other drug.
Seeing Vioxx's success, Pharmacia early this year began offering a $5 rebate to patients who receive a new prescription of Celebrex.
As the companies fight to dominate the market for Cox-2's, physicians have found themselves in the middle of the battleground.
Dr. Randy Sassich, a resident in internal medicine at Barnes-Jewish Hospital in St. Louis, said that shortly after Vioxx was approved in May 1999, he suddenly saw more free Celebrex samples in the hospital. One resident was carrying a box of Celebrex samples the size of a small microwave oven, he said.
And he said that a representative from one of the companies, while visiting the hospital's rheumatology clinic, had suggested that his competitor was suppressing a study that showed its drug in an unfavorable light. "It's competitive and ugly," Dr. Sassich said.
Both companies also hired former Olympians to help in their campaign. Pharmacia hired Bart Conner, 42, who won two gold medals in gymnastics in 1984 while Merck hired Bruce Jenner, 50, who won the decathlon in 1976, and Dorothy Hamill, 44, who earned the gold in figure skating the same year. In late August, Mr. Jenner and Ms. Hamill -- on Merck's expense account -- began traveling to Arthritis Foundation chapters in large cities around the country and telling arthritis sufferers about Vioxx.
In the days before the Olympics started, many newspapers and television stations quickly jumped at the chance to interview Mr. Jenner and Ms. Hamill about their arthritis. Larry King on CNN, for instance, interviewed the athletes during his entire hourlong show on Aug. 29.
"My doctor prescribed Vioxx for me," Ms. Hamill said on the show, "and it's as if I've been given a new life. It's just -- it's been amazing."
Cox-2 inhibitors were developed in response to discoveries about a decade ago that cyclooxygenase, or COX, came in two forms, one of which appears to help protect the stomach from ulcers and another associated with pain or inflammation. Aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs work by inhibiting both forms of COX, thus raising the risk of ulcers. (Tylenol and other acetaminophen-based pain relievers don't ease inflammation, and so do not pose the same risk to the stomach.) Cox-2 inhibitors only block the form of cyclooxygenase associated with inflammation and pain, and thus in theory reduce the risk of ulcers.
Studies sponsored by both companies -- there are, as yet, no independent clinical studies -- have shown that patients taking either Vioxx or Celebrex have a lower incidence of ulcers than those taking other pain relievers. Ulcers can be a painful side effect of regularly taking aspirin, ibuprofen or other anti-inflammatory pain relievers. In rare cases, the ulcers can become serious, resulting in hospitalization and even death.
The F.D.A. estimates that 2 to 4 percent of all people who take pain relievers known as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for a year experience serious ulcer complications. About 13 million Americans regularly take anti-inflammatory pain relievers for arthritis, according to research gathered by Pharmacia, and about 10 percent discontinue the medication because of side effects.
The F.D.A., however, still requires Merck and Pharmacia to include warning labels stating that Celebrex and Vioxx could cause serious ulcers. The warnings state how often other anti-inflammatory drugs have caused severe ulcers and say it is not yet known how Cox-2 inhibitors might change those numbers.
The Cox-2's can still have some other side effects, including abdominal pain and nausea.
And, some doctors say the benefits of the new drugs may have been overstated. Dr. Walter L. Peterson and Dr. Byron Cryer, who have worked as consultants to the companies, said that while the drugs did appear to reduce the incidence of ulcers in some patients, it was not cost effective to prescribe the drugs to all people with arthritis. They also argued that the use of Cox 2's should instead be limited to people who have a greater chance than others of developing a serious ulcer. "It is unclear whether all the hype is warranted," the two doctors wrote in an editorial late last year in the Journal of the American Medical Association.
But many doctors say they are widely prescribing the drugs because they believe they are safer than traditional therapies.
"I use them in pretty much all adults," said Dr. Joanne M. Jordan, a rheumatologist at the Thurston Arthritis Research Center at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Dr. Jordan said she had been paid by both Merck and Pharmacia to speak to other doctors about the benefits of the drugs.
Executives at both Merck and Pharmacia dispute the claims of some doctors and health insurance companies that the drugs should be limited to only certain patients. The executives say that the drugs are worth their cost because of their safety.
They have asked the F.D.A. to soften the label warnings on ulcers and have submitted studies to the agency showing that the incidence of serious ulcer complications was lower for people taking the new Cox-2's than for those taking other anti-inflammatory drugs.
"Some people have serious adverse effects very early on" when taking other pain relievers, said Dr. Roger M. Perlmutter, Merck's executive vice president for worldwide basic research. "On balance, you would prefer to take a drug that had fewer risks because it can happen to anyone."
Dr. Steve Geis, Pharmacia's vice president for arthritis clinical research, echoed that view: "Even with short-term therapy, people can have serious ulcers and bleeding. You can be healthy and get a complication."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Joanne M. Jordan, a rheumatologist at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. (M. J. Sharp for The New York Times)(pg. C8); In the battle for market share, both Pharmacia, maker of Celebrex, and Merck, which makes Vioxx, have built formidable armies to push their pain killers. (Photography by Tony Cenicola for The New York Times; illustration by Andy Chen and Olga Rapoport)(pg. C1)
 
Graphs track the number of new monthly prescriptions for Celebrex and Vioxx since January 1999. (Source: IMS Health)(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Quick Start"
The pain killers Celebrex and Vioxx became two of the most widely prescribed drugs soon after they were introduced, and have surpassed the performance of some other recent high-profile drugs.
 
Graph compares the sales of celebrex, vioxx, lipitor and viagra for the first 12 months after their release.
(Source: IMS Health)(pg. C8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (94%); MRK (NYSE) (94%); PFZ (LSE) (91%); PFE (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (94%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (91%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (91%); NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2824 MANMADE ORGANIC FIBERS, EXCEPT CELLULOSIC (90%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC; PHARMACIA CORP; PFIZER INC MERCK & CO INC (94%); PFIZER INC (91%); PHARMACIA CORP (90%); IMS HEALTH INC (51%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MERCK & CO INC; PHARMACIA CORP; PFIZER INC UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARTHRITIS AND RHEUMATISM; ADVERTISING; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; CELEBREX (DRUG); VIOXX (DRUG); FINANCES; SALES; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); ENZYME INHIBITORS (90%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); ARTHRITIS (90%); ANALGESICS (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); RHEUMATIC DISEASES (78%); ANTI-INFLAMMATORY AGENTS (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (77%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (75%); SALES PROJECTIONS (70%); SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (68%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (68%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (68%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (62%); SCIENCE NEWS (61%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (61%); PATENTS (60%); 

PERSON: PETERSEN, MELODY JOSEPH C PAPA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



107 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Bancorp to Be Acquired By Firstar for $21 Billion

BYLINE: By RIVA D. ATLAS 

 BODY:
The Firstar Corporation agreed yesterday to acquire U.S. Bancorp in a $21 billion stock deal that unites two large regional banks led by brothers.
The combination of the Milwaukee-based Firstar, whose chief executive is Jerry A. Grundhofer, and the Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp, which is led by his younger brother, John F. Grundhofer, will create the nation's eighth-biggest bank, with more than $160 billion in assets. 
 The negotiations started with a telephone call by John Grundhofer in mid-September. His brother was eager to talk. "Our board always looks at alternatives" Jerry Grundhofer said yesterday. "We had a wish list, and it always seemed to gravitate toward U.S. Bancorp."
The fact that he is buying his brother's company will only help, he said, adding, "I've always found it easy to talk to Jack."
Firstar is paying 1.265 shares of its stock for each share of U.S. Bancorp, valuing the bank at $28.15 a share, a 21 percent premium to its closing price of $23.19 on Tuesday. Shares of U.S. Bancorp rose $1.81 yesterday, to $25. Firstar fell $2.25, to $20, reducing the value of the deal to $25.30 a share, or $19 billion.
The boards of both companies have approved the deal. The surviving company will be known as U.S. Bancorp, but Firstar's management will control 14 of 25 board seats and 50.5 percent of the stock. Jerry Grundhofer will serve as president and chief executive, while John Grundhofer will be chairman until the end of 2002.
The deal unites two institutions with complementary strengths and weaknesses. Firstar has a strong retail franchise, which accounted for 50 percent of its earnings in the most recent quarter and has been growing at 21 percent a year. U.S. Bancorp has struggled with its retail business, and an anemic 6 percent growth rate has largely contributed to the company's recent earnings disappointments.
"That business has been an albatross around their necks for the last year," said Jon Arfstrom, an analyst with Dain Rauscher Wessels in Minneapolis.
The U.S. Bancorp acquisition allows Firstar to diversify away from its core lending business. U.S. Bancorp owns the regional brokerage firm Piper Jaffray, which it acquired in 1998, as well as a payment-systems business that includes corporate charge and purchasing cards. Thanks largely to these subsidiaries, fee-based activities will account for 43 percent of the combined company's earnings, compared with 35 percent currently for Firstar.
Banks have been eager to expand their mix of businesses that generate fees to reduce their vulnerability to credit cycles and interest rate swings.
U.S. Bancorp also brings Firstar some geographic advantages: 52 percent of its deposits come from metropolitan areas in California and the Pacific Northwest, where household growth is twice as strong as it is in the Midwestern regions served by Firstar's branches.
What the two banks do have in common are lagging stock prices. Both companies' share prices have been virtually flat this year, with U.S. Bancorp held back by a series of earnings disappointments and Firstar restrained by worries that the company was about to announce an acquisition.
Firstar is the product of two mergers, which led the company to grow to $74 billion in assets from $20 billion over the last three years. As Firstar's management completed the integration of its most recent deal, last year's $9 billion merger with the Mercantile Bancorporation, its stock began to falter as investors anticipated its next move.
Firstar shareholders are not likely to see the stock rebound soon, even though the company has announced a deal, Mr. Vander Ploeg said. With $86 billion in assets, U.S. Bancorp is a far bigger bite than any acquisition Firstar has tackled so far, he said.
"Investors will want to see evidence of revenue growth before they are willing to buy the stock," he said. "That's not likely to happen for the next 12 months." Mr. Vander Ploeg downgraded his rating on Firstar's shares yesterday, to "market perform" from "strong buy."
Both Grundhofers said they were unconcerned by the stock market's short-term reaction to their deal. Firstar is projecting that the purchase, scheduled to close in the first quarter next year, will increase earnings 3.7 percent in 2001.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: John F. Grundhofer, left, chairman and chief executive of U.S. Bancorp, and his brother, Jerry A. Grundhofer, chief executive of Firstar, will merge their regional banks into the nation's eighth-largest bank. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: USB (NYSE) (96%); PJC (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FIRSTAR CORP; US BANCORP U S BANCORP (96%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIRSTAR CORP; US BANCORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FRANCHISING (74%); PURCHASING CARDS (73%); APPROVALS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (63%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); 

PERSON: GRUNDHOFER, JERRY A; GUNNDHOFER, JOHN F; ATLAS, RIVA D JOHN F GRUNDHOFER (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



108 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: John T. Patterson Dies at 72; Helped to Rally South Bronx

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN 

 BODY:
John T. Patterson Jr., who founded a development corporation that helped lure both businesses and capital to the struggling South Bronx of the 1970's, died Sept. 26 near Munich. He was 72.
 The cause of death was prostate cancer, said his daughter, Jodie Patterson Becker. Mr. Patterson, who lived in Boca Raton, Fla., died at a clinic where he was undergoing treatment, Ms. Becker said. 
 In 1972, Mr. Patterson started the South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation, a nonprofit corporation intended to help businesses expand in and relocate to the Bronx and to train young people and the unemployed for jobs.
The corporation, still in operation, says it has lured more than $120 million in capital to the South Bronx since its founding; created or helped retain more than 30,000 jobs; and completed more than $20 million in reconstruction projects to upgrade local retail and commercial districts.
Like other nonprofit organizations in the Bronx in the 1970's, the organization helped fill a governmental void. As the city government later turned its attention to reviving the South Bronx, Mr. Patterson helped guide its efforts, working with Mayors Edward I. Koch and David N. Dinkins.
Born in Harlem and raised largely in Freeport, N.Y., Mr. Patterson graduated from Lincoln University in Pennsylvania. He received a law degree from Brooklyn Law School, but quickly moved into the business world, reasoning, as he said later, that "there were enough capable Negro lawyers but not many Negroes in the investment field."
After starting as a mutual fund salesman, he helped establish the first black-owned and black-operated brokerage firm on Wall Street, in 1955. In 1963, he helped found the Interracial Council for Business Opportunity, a pioneer in providing technical and business counseling to black small-business men.
He retired in 1996.
Mr. Patterson is survived by his companion, Dorrett Abrahams; a brother, Raymond R. Patterson; a sister, Carol Patterson Lewis; four daughters, Ms. Becker, Linda Patterson Braxton, Sherry Patterson and Yeefah Patterson Thurmond; six grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
In a 1983 letter to The New York Times, Mr. Patterson defended Mayor Koch's approval of window decals to "beautify" vacant apartment houses in the South Bronx. Given the more substantive restoration efforts that were simultaneously under way, he asked, "What's wrong with giving the neighborhood a lift in looks and community morale?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: John T. Patterson Jr. (The New York Times, 1977) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH BRONX OVERALL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); MEN'S HEALTH (72%); PROSTATE DISEASE (72%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (71%); LAWYERS (67%); CITIES (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); MUTUAL FUNDS (64%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (60%); PROSTATE CANCER (57%); 

PERSON: PATTERSON, JOHN T JR; WALDMAN, AMY JOHN T PATTERSON JR (95%); JODIE PATTERSON BECKER (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



109 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Math Panel To Consider City's Tack In Teaching

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
Worried that New York City students are ill equipped to meet new graduation requirements in mathematics, Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy has appointed a panel to study how the subject is taught in city classrooms and to recommend changes by spring.
Mr. Levy said he was concerned because starting this year, high school students throughout New York State will have to pass a Regents mathematics examination to graduate. Yet nearly 70 percent of fourth and eighth graders failed the citywide math tests last year, and math scores have remained flat for three years straight. 
 "The school system has not made any progress in mathematics in the last several years, and it's now time for us to focus on this in a critical way," Mr. Levy said yesterday. "It is critical that children be not only literate, but numerate."
The chairman of Mr. Levy's panel will be Matthew Goldstein, the chancellor of the City University of New York, who has a Ph.D. in mathematics. Mr. Goldstein worked with Mr. Levy to select the other 13 members of the panel, including Philip Uri Treisman, a math professor at the University of Texas and a former MacArthur fellow; Lynn Arthur Steen, president of the American Mathematical Association; Lee McCaskill, principal of Brooklyn Technical High School; and David Brownstein, head of municipal derivatives at Salomon Smith Barney.
Among other things, the panel will examine a new kind of math instruction that has taken root in Manhattan's District 2 and in some other areas of the city in recent years. Proponents of the "new math," as it is known, believe it is more important for children to construct their own solutions to math problems than to learn the standard practices that schools have traditionally taught. Many schools that favor the approach do not even use textbooks.
Some parents have protested the approach, complaining that their children are not learning the skills they need to succeed academically and professionally.
Mr. Levy said he also wanted the panel to decide whether the passing grade on the Regents math exam is reasonable. Mr. Levy does not have any control over the passing grade, because the State Board of Regents makes that decision. But he could recommend that the board change it.
Mr. Levy said one of the panel's most important tasks would be ensuring that the city's math curriculum prepared students not only for the Regents exams, but also for the entrance exams required by CUNY, and even the College Board test. Another crucial question is whether the skills students acquire in city math classes are ones they are likely to need in the new economy.
"We have to figure out whether we are teaching children something that is actually going to be useful," Mr. Levy said. "We should not gratuitiously torture students to learn mathematics that is no longer relevant." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NQE (AMEX) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MATHEMATICS MATHEMATICS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); CHILDREN (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TEXTBOOKS (73%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); 

PERSON: LEVY, HAROLD O (CHANCELLOR) HAROLD O LEVY (95%); MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



110 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY;
Dell Warns About Third-Quarter Slowdown in Sales

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
The slowdown in the personal computer industry has hit one of its most successful companies, Dell Computer, which told analysts yesterday that its third-quarter sales would fall short of expectations.
Dell attributed the problems to weak demand in Europe and from small-business customers in the United States. As a result, its sales will be about $8.2 billion, or 3 percent below estimates. 
 Andrew Neff, an analyst for Bear, Stearns, said that Dell's announcement, following similar shortfalls from Apple Computer and Intel, indicated the potential of a widespread slackening of demand for computers.
"At a macro level, there is the decline in the euro and higher oil prices," he said. "At the micro level, there are the delays in the Pentium 4 chip and the higher interest rates in the United States. Taken together the demand picture is getting murky and the earnings of a number of companies are at risk." Last week, Mr. Neff downgraded shares of Apple, Dell, Compaq Computer and Hewlett-Packard.
Dell said after the markets closed that it expected to meet third-quarter profit forecasts, but could fall 1 or 2 cents below expectations for the fourth quarter.
Analysts had expected Dell to earn 25 cents a share in the third quarter and 27 cents in the fourth.
If the weakness persists in the fourth quarter, the company estimated its revenue for the full year would be $32 billion, up 27 percent from 1999. Still, Dell's growth is slowing sharply. Last year, its sales rose 38 percent, and in 1998, they grew 48 percent.
Michael S. Dell, the company's chief executive, said he expected the company to continue to outpace its competitors. "The question is not whether Dell will continue to grow, it's at what multiple will we continue to grow relative to the market, and how do we manage that growth," Mr. Dell said, according to a transcription by The Associated Press.
He spoke at the beginning of a two-day analyst meeting at Dell's headquarters in Round Rock, Tex.
The company said that profit margins remained firm, even in the face of price cuts, because shortages in important computer components had abated and prices had fallen. And it said that sales to large corporate customers, its most important segment, along with sales to home users remained strong.
"Dell is the most profitable company in the industry," Mr. Neff said. "But that's having the best house in the worst neighborhood." He said that the company would need to focus on cutting costs even more.
Shares of Dell, which declined 38 cents, to $28.19 in the regular trading, fell as low as $25.75 in after-hours trading. Dell's shares had already been trading at their lowest point in two years.
Two weeks ago, Intel said that its sales would grow 3 percent to 5 percent instead of the 9 percent to 12 percent it had expected. The company mainly blamed the fall of the euro, which has effectively raised prices of computers in Europe by 18 percent so far this year.
On Friday, shares of Apple plunged by more than half after it said that sales were slow in September, a month usually buoyed by back-to-school shopping.
Also yesterday, Micron Electronics said that its personal computer business grew only 5 percent in the quarter, below analysts' expectations. Over all, the company beat expectations because of the strength of its memory business.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (91%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: DELL COMPUTER CORP HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (91%); INTEL CORP (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DELL COMPUTER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SALES; FINANCES PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); PRICE CUTTING (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL MICHAEL DELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



111 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: School Improvements Are Cited in California

BYLINE: By BARBARA WHITAKER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 4

 BODY:
In the first year of a California program that ties academic performance to financial rewards for public schools and educators, two-thirds of the state's public schools showed improvement on tests that provide the basis of the program, officials announced today.
Seventy-one percent of the 6,815 schools eligible to participate met their targets, and 67 percent of those are now in line for about $660 million in awards. 
 "This shows that if you give people a real target, they'll reach it," said Delaine Eastin, state superintendent for public instruction.
Although officials said the improvements were encouraging, the program resulted in incidents of cheating at a few schools and concerns about the limited criteria on which the performance index is based.
Ms. Eastin played down the cheating, noting that irregularities were investigated at 51 schools, with tampering confirmed at 5 of those and a dozen of those still under investigation. But she agreed with critics who said the index should be based on criteria beyond one standardized test.
"We are at the very first step of a longer journey and, honestly, I would have waited until there was more than one indice in the index," Ms. Eastin said. "But when life gives you lemons, you make lemonade."
The Academic Performance Index is the cornerstone of the 1999 Public Schools Accountability Act, which established a statewide system examining schools and gauging their improvement.
The index is tied to the results of Stanford 9 achievement tests, pegging them to a scale of 200 to 1,000. A statewide performance target of 800 was established, and every school below that level must improve its performance by 5 percent and show comparable improvement for ethnic and socio-economically disadvantaged groups within the school. Those over 800 must show a one-point gain to be eligible for awards.
Those who meet the goals are eligible for three types of awards. The Governor's Performance Award offers up to $150 a student to schools that meet their goal. The School Site Employee Performance Bonus divides $350 million, half to schools and half to all school employees who meet improvement targets. A third program provides an additional $100 million to go to certified teachers and administrators.
Certified teachers and administrators at those schools with the biggest gains will receive the most money, with 1,000 teachers eligible to receive $25,000 each, followed by 3,750 getting $10,000 each and 7,500 others receiving $5,000 until the money is gone. The law says these awards will be decided upon by local district officials in negotiation with the local teachers unions.
But some education experts voiced concern about the concept.
Bruce Fuller, a professor of education and public policy at the University of California and co-director of an education policy think tank, noted that in approving the governor's plan, the Legislature had suggested that four criteria be used in the index, including high school graduation rates and school attendance rates.
"It just makes a lot of educators nervous that cash bonuses of up to $25,000 for an individual teacher are going to flow based upon a single measure that is not even linked to the curriculum," Mr. Fuller said.
Mr. Fuller said the broader issue to examine was how schools in poor areas improved compared with those in more affluent areas. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TESTS AND TESTING; FINANCES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; CHEATING PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); SCHOOL CHEATING (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); 

PERSON: WHITAKER, BARBARA; EASTIN, DELAINE BRUCE FULLER (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



112 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 35; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: In America;
Gore Piles On

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
If he can somehow force himself to stop sighing and interrupting and behaving condescendingly in front of the television cameras, Al Gore may yet get elected president.
Most of America understands that the competence bar is set so low for Gov. George W. Bush of Texas that it's practically lying on the ground. It was pretty much acknowledged going into the debate that as long as he didn't misspell potato or mispronounce some three-syllable word or misstate the name of a world leader, he would be judged to have done O.K. 
 Woody Allen is supposed to have said that 80 percent of success is just showing up. That was proved Tuesday night. Governor Bush showed up -- albeit reluctantly -- at the Clark Athletic Center at the University of Massachusetts. And he did fine.
That is, if you didn't bother to look at the content of the debate.
If you paid attention to the content, and used it as a gauge to determine which candidate was better prepared, was more knowledgeable, had a greater command of the facts and grasp of the issues, then Vice President Gore won easily.
He asserted, for example, that Governor Bush "would spend more money on tax cuts for the wealthiest 1 percent than all of the new spending that he proposes for education, health care, prescription drugs and national defense all combined."
That happens to be true. And Mr. Bush never attempted to explain why this peculiar configuration of priorities -- this re-direction of national resources from the bottom and the middle to the top -- is a good idea.
The vice president clobbered Mr. Bush on the issue of prescription drugs for the elderly. And he scored well, I thought, when discussing potential appointments to the Supreme Court, saying, "Governor Bush has declared to the anti-choice groups that he will appoint justices in the mold of Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas, who are known for being the most vigorous opponents of a woman's right to choose."
But Vice President Gore never wins easily. He may have the experience and most of the issues on his side, but he can't keep his superciliousness in check. He just can't do it. So there he was on Tuesday night sighing loudly with disdain, or smiling contemptuously, or smugly, as Governor Bush did the best he could with this answer or that.
Earth to Al Gore: This turns people off.
There's an old saying: You don't shoot a man who's committing suicide. There were times during the debate when Governor Bush seemed not to understand the finer points of his own tax cut and Social Security proposals. And he seemed lost on matters of foreign policy. It would have been quite sufficient for Mr. Gore to give his own views on these matters and to correct any misstatements by his opponent.
But Mr. Gore seems to feel the need to pour it on -- to offer not just his answer to a given question, but to show us everything he knows about the topic. He doesn't seem to realize that in the real world, people hate Eddie Haskell.
At one point during the debate the moderator, Jim Lehrer, said to the vice president: "I've got an idea. If you have any more to say about this, you can say it in your closing statement. We'll move on, O.K.?"
The vice president's boorishness gets in the way of his message and almost certainly pushes some voters into a more favorable view of Mr. Bush, who benefits from a more conversational tone and the demeanor of an ordinary guy.
The bad news for Bush supporters is that there are not many other reasons for undecided voters to shift to their man. Mr. Gore has got a good thing going with, among other things, his health care issues, his strong defense of a woman's right to choose, and the continued strong economy.
Republican campaign operatives are very worried. Key swing states are moving toward the vice president. Some crucial states for the G.O.P. -- Florida and Ohio -- remain up for grabs. And despite Tuesday's debate, the belief that Mr. Bush may not be up to the rigors of the presidency is widespread and in danger of becoming entrenched.
Issues count in a presidential election, but so does style. Mr. Gore, as he closes in on his dream of winning the White House, might consider tempering his fighting style with a touch of modesty and grace. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; DEBATING; TELEVISION EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX LAW (70%); SOCIAL SECURITY (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); AGING (63%); SENIOR CITIZENS (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); SUICIDE (50%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ANTONIN SCALIA (57%); CLARENCE THOMAS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



113 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: $60 Million Gift Is Made To Library of Congress

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4

 BODY:
The Library of Congress has just received the largest single donation in its history, $60 million, and Dr. James H. Billington, the librarian, is eagerly preparing to spend it repairing relations between "the thinkers and the doers," between a resident panel of visiting senior scholars he plans for the library and the politicians across the street in the Capitol.
"These two worlds just kind of fell apart in the 60's and haven't really come back together again," Dr. Billington said as he explained his new program for the ultimate mix in political town and academic gown. 
 He plans rotating far-flung scholars to Washington to pursue fresh research and play a "catalytic" intellectual role for Congress, the primary user of the national library.
Beginning next year, the program will endow eight senior chairs plus a dozen fellowships for younger scholars. And most prominently, it will create a $1 million prize for intellectual excellence in the human sciences, a field that Dr. Billington feels is neglected by the Nobel prizes.
"We're trying to celebrate and facilitate not just the life of the mind, but also the role of the life of the mind in the life of the republic," he said of the new scholar center, which will be named after its benefactor, John W. Kluge.
A billionaire entrepreneur and philanthropist, Mr. Kluge heads the library's Madison Council, which has been enlisting advisers and donors from the private sector for the past decade. After helping the library raise about $160 million in the last 10 years from others, Mr. Kluge, now 85 and chairman of the Metromedia International telecommunications and entertainment company, has donated $60 million to it himself.
Based around the great hall in the library's newly refurbished Jefferson building, the center -- which will be formally announced on Thursday -- is to set aside suites of offices and meeting rooms for the scholars and lawmakers. The hope is they will intermingle for whatever discussions they please about ideas large or small, pressing or serendipitous.
"You can't legislate or buy depth but we're making some probes," said Dr. Billington, a 71-year-old historian and Russian specialist who diplomatically stressed that he has nothing against the capital city's hedgerows of think tanks and flocks of talking heads all now operating in the name of thoughtfulness.
Still, he said, "a deeper immersion" and interplay between scholarly ideas and political curiosity is needed. "There is already a great deal of applied intellect in this city, even if a lot of it is in lobbying and advocacy."
He vowed to reach out for scholars not usually associated with a Washington intellectual life top-heavy with economists and political scientists.
The initial senior scholars are to be chosen within the next year, with the first Kluge prize for intellectual excellence likely in 2002. Those under consideration will be vetted from assorted disciplines by Dr. Billington and an advisory council of scholars led by his deputy at the library, Dr. Prosser Gifford.
Dr. Billington declined to speculate on choices. But he said the standard would ideally be of the sort set by two scholars he had previously coaxed into serving the library briefly -- Vyacheslav Ivanov, the linguist and lecturer on semiotics, and the late philosopher Isaiah Berlin.
The eight specialties to be covered by the senior chairs are broadly defined along the library's separate collections to include the culture and society of the Northern (advanced) and Southern (less developed) Hemispheres; technology's interaction with society; American law and governance; education; international relations; American history and ethics: and modern culture, including the library's formidable collections of music and films.
"What we're trying to do is to make sure you get Greece into Rome," said Dr. Billington, the 13th librarian of Congress in the two century-history of the institution.
"What's fascinating is that the link between learning and lawmaking was here from the beginning," he said, describing how the first joint committee was created by the founding Congress to run the library.
Scholars have at least as much to gain in the untapped resources of the library as in the interaction with lawmakers, Dr. Billington said. He noted, for example, the thousands of unread copyrighted novels in the library's archive of more than 120 million items.
"I tell my friends in academia that instead of deconstructing novels that everybody used to enjoy before you started writing about them, how about coming down and discovering the unpublished novels that nobody has read," he wryly added.
"There is no magic bullet for interacting doers and thinkers," he conceded, but he expressed faith in the idea of simply bringing "some of the scholars scattered all over the country directly into the library" that members of Congress use -- "people who already have a life of scholarly accomplishment but who might be capable of distilling some wisdom in roaming across the rich variety of things at the library."
Reviewing the institution's virtues, he cited its several hundred book cataloguers as rich foragers. "They're my hidden heroes," he said.
"It's going to be additive, it's going to be catalytic," Dr. Billington insisted. "It's not a little empire, or a university or a new think tank."
"It's going to have an ever changing group of people," he added, with most of them staying for a year or so. "It will work in that way America does things best -- not with a giant prefixed plan that you sit around and debate in the abstract, but by working on the human elements and hoping that things will jell."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: James H. Billington, the librarian of Congress, shown outside his office, plans to use a $60 million gift to create a center for scholarship and politics. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (94%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (94%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY; RESEARCH; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS SPECIAL LIBRARIES (91%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); LIBRARIES (90%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (90%); MAJOR GIFTS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); HISTORY (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CORPORATE GIVING (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (64%); 

PERSON: KLUGE, JOHN W; CLINES, FRANCIS X; BILLINGTON, JAMES H JAMES HADLEY 'JAMES H' BILLINGTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



114 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Rejects Plan For Banana Trade

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4

 BODY:
The United States rejected the European Union's latest proposal for overhauling its banana import system today, saying it did not go far enough and might break World Trade Organization rules.
United States trade officials said, however, that they still held out hope of working out a compromise to the long-running dispute, one of several threatening trans-Atlantic relations. 
 The European Union's executive body adopted the so-called first- come-first-served system today as a solution to its dispute with the United States and Latin American countries over banana trade. The union's farm commissioner, Franz Fischler, said it was compatible with world trade rules.
But a spokesman for Charlene Barshefsky, the United States trade representative, said it was unacceptable.
"We have real questions as to the W.T.O. consistency of this proposal. Moreover, the Caribbean and Latin American countries do not favor it," Ms. Barshefsky's spokesman, Brendan Daly, said.
The European Union has for years been at loggerheads over banana trade with the United States and Latin American countries, which argue that the European system favors producers in European Union territories and the Caribbean over their growers and marketing companies.
The World Trade Organization ruled last year that the European system broke world trade rules.
European governments asked the European Commission in July to look into how the banana market could be managed first come, first served, with licenses to import bananas awarded within certain quotas to those in a position to bring their bananas to Europefirst. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; LATIN AMERICA; UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANANAS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET EUROPEAN UNION (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); BANANA & PLANTAIN PRODUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); 

PERSON: FRANZ FISCHLER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



115 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: In Test, F.C.C. Lifts Requirement On Broadcasting Political Replies

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4

 BODY:
Challenging broadcasters to open the airwaves to more robust political debate, the federal government today suspended two long-established rules that had required radio and television stations to provide free reply time for opponents of political candidates endorsed by the stations and for candidates and others whose integrity is attacked.
The rules, the last major vestiges of the fairness doctrine, have been under assault for years by broadcasters and Republican regulators and lawmakers who say they are an unnecessary burden that chills free speech. 
 The broadcasters have maintained that the regulations, known as the political editorial and personal attack rules, do not encourage robust debate on controversial issues as they are intended to do.
Although the government rarely brings cases to enforce the rules, radio and television stations say the rules have the effect of discouraging them from taking editorial positions and airing controversial broadcasts.
Responding to the latest legal challenge to the rules, a sharply divided Federal Communications Commission announced today that it had suspended them for 60 days to test the broadcasters' proposition and whether, in the absence of the rules, radio and television stations would commit more air time to political and controversial issues without provoking complaints about fairness.
The agency said that, since national elections are only a few weeks away, it was an ideal time to conduct an experiment to see what effect the suspension of the rules would have on political coverage. Without saying what results might justify repealing the rules, officials suggested that reports of increased air time for political debate and relatively few complaints might indicate that the rules were outdated.
William E. Kennard, the chairman of the F.C.C., said in an interview that the agency had issued its order because of concern that a federal appeals court would strike down or modify the rules, particularly since until today the agency had been deadlocked over the rules and could not provide the judges with any reliable data about their effect on the industry.
"It would be irresponsible to leave this to a court," Mr. Kennard said. "It seemed clear that the court was prepared to modify or vacate the rules based on an old, stale record. The majority of Americans still get most of their news and information from broadcasting, and broadcasting remains the main way politicians communicate with the public.
"And that's why I felt personally before we allowed a court to just vacate the rules on our books for 30 years, we take another look," he said.
But critics of the rules, who have long sought to have them repealed, saw today's suspension as a tactical legal maneuver intended, in the long-run, to preserve, and possibly even expand them.
Two Republican commissioners who wanted to repeal the rules dissented from the decision, saying that the temporary suspension may coerce the broadcasters to air programs and endorsements they might otherwise have withheld, to prove to regulators that the rules are unnecessary.
And other critics of the suspension said it had the unfair effect of shifting the legal burden of proof from the government, which is supposed to justify any restrictions on speech, to the industry.
"It is outrageous that the F.C.C. refuses to discard tired regulations that stifle free speech rather than enhance it," said Edward O. Fritts, the president of the National Association of Broadcasters.
Mark Millage, news director at KELO television, the CBS affiliate in Sioux Falls, S.D., said the commission had "set up a test in a way that is designed to fail."
"We don't have the time to establish the proper process for doing what the F.C.C. is proposing," said Mr. Millage, chairman of the Radio Television News Directors Association, one of the industry groups that had filed the lawsuit challenging the rules. "Newspapers have editorial boards. That's not something you can just slap together. It would be irresponsible."
Mr. Millage said KELO does not broadcast editorials or political endorsements, but that it would probably reconsider that position if the F.C.C. rules were permanently repealed.
Supporters of the political editorial and personal attack rules said today that the commission should not have buckled to court pressure to suspend them. "The costs of today's order far outweigh any benefits," said Andrew J. Schwartzman, president of the Media Access Project, a nonpartisan organization that promotes diversity on the airwaves.
In recent years, fewer television and radio stations have made political endorsements. Industry executives say this is a result of the rules. Others say it is because it makes more economic sense to use the air time for more commercially attractive programming.
Both the Supreme Court and the F.C.C. have long rejected the broadcasters' objections to the rules, which were written in the 1920's at the dawn of radio and codified by the agency in 1967.
The supporters say that the requirements are a fair price for the broadcasters to pay in return for control over the limited and valuable airwaves, and in 1967, a unanimous Supreme Court agreed. It upheld the constitutionality of the two rules at issue today, as well as the broader fairness doctrine.
The fairness doctrine, which the F.C.C. said today it would consider adopting again, required broadcasters "to provide coverage of vitally important controversial issues of interest in the community" and "to provide a reasonable opportunity for the presentation of contrasting viewpoints on such issues."
Most of the elements of the fairness doctrine were repealed by the F.C.C. in 1987, but the political editorial and personal attack rules survived. The rules require that stations provide candidates not endorsed by the station with a reasonable opportunity to reply.
The rules also give free reply time to candidates or anyone who is the subject of an attack based on "honesty, character, integrity or like personal qualities." News programs are exempt from the rules.
Four years ago, the broadcasters brought a new lawsuit challenging the rules. A federal appeals court considering that case ordered the F.C.C. to provide a more complete record by last Friday, including better data on the possible chilling effects of the rules.
It was in response to that request that the commission said today it would suspend the rules.
The court now has the option of dismissing the lawsuit, striking down the rules or delaying its final decision until after suspension.
The 3-2 decision breaks a deadlock that had plagued the commission. The two Democratic commissioners, Susan Ness and Gloria Tristani, had voted to retain the rules, while the two Republicans had urged that they be abandoned. Mr. Kennard had disqualified himself from participating in the proceeding because as a young lawyer in the early 1980's, he had helped prepare a legal brief attacking the rules on behalf of the National Association of Broadcasters.
But two weeks ago, Mr. Kennard reversed course and announced that, because of the appeals court case, he would no longer stand on the sidelines.
"Of course, elections will be held during the 60-day period, making it an ideal time to determine how broadcasters are affected by the political editorial rule," the commission said in its order. "While less obvious, it is also an ideal time to obtain evidence regarding the effect of the personal attack rule, which was established in a series of cases in the early 1960's involving personal attacks on candidates and elected officials."
The commission's Republican members, Michael K. Powell and Harold W. Furchtgott-Roth, dissented from the decision. Mr. Powell, in an opinion endorsed by Mr. Furchtgott-Roth, called the agency's decision "a day late and a dollar short," and said it was "inappropriately coercive," trying to force the broadcasters to prove the weaknesses of the rules by airing more editorials.
"Knowing that the political editorial rules will be restored at the end of the experimental period, and taking the hint that any hope of the rules being eliminated rests on demonstrating increased political speech, a broadcaster likely will feel he has no choice but to broadcast political editorial content," Mr. Powell wrote.
"I believe this clever device presents the danger of government coercing political speech in the final innings of a major national election." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION FCC CO LTD (58%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (93%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (93%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; TELEVISION; RADIO; ENDORSEMENTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (75%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (72%); APPEALS COURTS (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); LITIGATION (63%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN; KENNARD, WILLIAM E (CHMN) MARK MILLAGE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



116 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: ASSESSING CANDIDATES;
A Day After the Big Debate, No One Boasts of a Big Night

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Oct. 4

 BODY:
For all the buildup of the first presidential debate as a make-or-break moment for Gov. George W. Bush and Vice President Al Gore, Republicans and Democrats alike conceded today that the overall dynamics of the race did not seem to have changed.
In fact, the encounter on Tuesday night at the University of Massachusetts campus here did not captivate the American public in the way some politicians had predicted. The viewership was estimated at more than 46 million people, on a par with the number who tuned in for the first debate between President Clinton and Bob Dole four years ago, an event that generated far less drama, given Mr. Clinton's lopsided advantage in the polls. 
 Today, it was hard to find an abiding sense of enthusiasm in the Gore or Bush camps -- in some cases it was more a sense of relief -- even as top officials on both sides said their candidates had met their basic objectives in the 90-minute encounter.
Even the Democratic Party's chief cheerleader, Edward G. Rendell, the general chairman, declined to give his candidate the most stellar marks, saying, "I think Al Gore gets a B plus and George Bush gets a C plus."
Mr. Rendell said his party's nominee, for all his fine qualities, lacked the demeanor to close the deal with the American public in a single evening. "Had Al Gore gone up there and convinced people that he was Bob Newhart, maybe he would have scored a knockout," he said. "But Al Gore's not a Bob Newhart. That's not going to happen."
Many lawmakers, governors and strategists in both parties were unusually measured, saying that neither man had put in a performance compelling enough to force many voters to immediately reconsider whom they would support. Such admissions are rare; the tradition after presidential debates is for operatives to rush out of the auditorium to declare that their candidate "won."
Instead, many operatives said it might not be until the third and final presidential debate on Oct. 17 that the views of the candidates among undecided voters would finally begin to sink in.
"The worst George Bush did was tie," said Gov. Tommy G. Thompson of Wisconsin. "But even a tie is good for George Bush."
Karen P. Hughes, Mr. Bush's communications director and one of his top advisers, said: "My feeling is it will take some time. People know that other debates are coming, so they may be reluctant to seal their decision yet."
William M. Daley, Mr. Gore's campaign chairman, put it this way: "One of these is not going to be determinative. These are not knockout punches."
Operatives in both camps said that today they began recalculating some of their decisions about priorities and resources in the wake of the debate. Advisers to Mr. Bush, for instance, said they were comfortable enough with the outcome of the debate that they had decided to funnel additional resources into more states, like California, that are leaning toward Mr. Gore.
Had Mr. Bush's performance been a disaster, they said, the campaign might have been more targeted in spending money only in the most crucial battlegrounds.
Even as neither side claimed a triumph, Democrats and Republicans asserted that they had accomplished many objectives in the debate. Advisers to Mr. Bush said they believed that by standing side-by-side with Mr. Gore, Mr. Bush had put to rest nagging questions about whether he had a sufficient grasp of issues so he could hold his own against the vice president, a seasoned debater.
"People wanted reassurance," said Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's top strategist. He added, "The first and most important thing was for Bush to share with people a substantive agenda that was bold and optimistic. The second was to demonstrate that he understood the leadership requirements of the office. And there was a need to show that he had substance and detail in his plans."
Backers of Mr. Gore, meanwhile, said they believed he had succeeded in resisting falling into bitter denunciations of Mr. Bush's record. They also said he had demonstrated that his stands on major issues, from health care to taxes, were more in line with those of most Americans.
Mr. Daley said Mr. Gore had conveyed this image to the public: "I'm a serious guy who takes this stuff seriously. And I know what I'm talking about." He said he might have hoped -- but never expected -- Mr. Bush would have performed so badly that the race would essentially have ended on Tuesday night. "You can hope that the guy would fall off the podium," Mr. Daley said of Mr. Bush, "but that's not going to happen."
Before the debate, Mr. Daley said, he had reminded Mr. Gore to stay upbeat. He said his worst-case scenario would have been if Mr. Bush had goaded the vice president into sounding mean and struggling to defend the administration's ethics.
"I told him, 'Stay positive, don't take the bait of a negative attack,' " Mr. Daley said. "He clearly didn't and that helps him with the independents. They don't buy that." He said he had feared that Mr. Bush would "really try to trash and bait Gore into going back at him on the political stuff and Clinton."
Senator Sam Brownback, a Kansas Republican, said Mr. Bush's performance halted "the questions about the stature" of the governor compared with Mr. Gore. He acknowledged he had worried that Mr. Bush could have stumbled or done something to damage his prospects.
Recalling President Gerald R. Ford's incorrect comment in a debate in 1976 that Poland was not under Soviet domination, he said, "Everybody fears some sort of statement that dominates the news that's not true like what Gerald Ford said."
Many Democrats, and even some Republicans, said Mr. Gore held a slight advantage because several polls showed him a few points ahead, though in most cases the lead was statistically insignificant. He also enjoys the benefits of being the incumbent vice president, and having issue positions that, polls show, are generally more popular than Mr. Bush's.
"I really believe that with the economy -- which obviously isn't going to suffer enough to change this election -- it's a very tough race for Governor Bush to face," said former Senator Warren B. Rudman, a New Hampshire Republican who backed Senator John McCain in the primaries. "I don't know what he can do. He's a naturally friendly guy, but he's not a person who lifts people like a John Kennedy or a Ronald Reagan or, on occasion, a Bill Clinton."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: BACK ON THE TRAIL -- Vice President Al Gore, top, and Gov. George W. Bush campaigning yesterday. Mr. Gore intensified a foreign policy argument; Mr. Bush talked up his tax plan. Pages A29 and A30. (Top, Ruth Fremson/The New York Times; bottom, Reuters)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; DEBATING; TELEVISION POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (94%); AL GORE (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); TOMMY THOMPSON (58%); ED RENDELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



117 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1495 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
Gore Defends Civilian Uses of Military

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WARREN, Ohio, Oct. 4

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore today intensified a foreign policy argument with George W. Bush that began during their debate on Tuesday, arguing that his vision of using the American military to build new democracies after peace is won has its roots in the Marshall Plan that rebuilt Western Europe after World War II.
Mr. Bush's argument that using the military in that role was endangering its essential function, Mr. Gore suggested, ignored the lessons of a postwar policy that he credited not only with saving a war-ravaged continent but also with building prosperity and, ultimately, reuniting Germany under democracy after the collapse of Communism. 
 "It's not a new mission," Mr. Gore insisted, when asked about Mr. Bush's criticism that American military preparedness has suffered because troops are overdeployed around the world, often for nonmilitary tasks. "The generation that won World War II, having seen the catastrophe of the interwar period of the '20s and '30s, wisely decided that nation-building was a preferable alternative to World War III."
"And it was a stunning success," he added, suggesting that it could be replicated around the world today.
The Marshall Plan, announced shortly after the war by Secretary of State George C. Marshall, was an economic reconstruction effort for Western Europe and involved aid, not troops. But in Japan and to some extent in Germany, the American occupation forces helped build a court and legislative system, drafting laws and running local governments, as well as providing security. Mr. Gore was suggesting that that was an appropriate model, on a smaller scale, for American troops in Bosnia and Kosovo.
The vice president spoke today in an hourlong interview on foreign policy in response to a request sent several weeks ago to both major party candidates to talk about how the United States should use its military, financial and diplomatic power abroad. Mr. Bush's aides have said they are considering the request, but have not set a date.
In his interview, Mr. Gore also said that if he was elected, he would refuse to lift most sanctions on Cuba until Fidel Castro died or was removed from office. When it was suggested that the next president might have to deal with a change of regime in Havana, Mr. Gore shot back, "I hope so." He described himself as a "hard-liner on Cuba."
Opposition to Castro's government is a major political issue in Florida, a state that Mr. Gore's aides say they now believe he can win. A victory there would be crucial in Mr. Gore's efforts to put together enough electoral college votes to win the presidency five weeks from now.
In a survey of world trouble spots, Mr. Gore also said that as president he would step up efforts to help the Iraqi opposition to President Saddam Hussein -- though he declined to say if the aid would be overt or covert -- and he was sharply critical of Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin, for efforts to harass the country's newspapers and crack down in Chechnya. He also spoke at length about his growing concern that Indonesia, the world's fourth most populous nation, was on the brink of chaos, but conceded that he had yet to explore options about how the United States could stabilize the country.
Mr. Gore's position on Cuba was in sharp contrast to his views on how to deal with another hard-line but economically failing Communist nation, North Korea, whose leaders also go to extraordinary lengths to repress dissent. There, he insisted, a slow but steady lifting of American sanctions has "yielded some tentative positive results," including recent reunions between North and South Korean families that have been separated for half a century. But he added that while North Korea has "been moving haltingly in the right direction, Cuba has been moving headlong in the wrong direction."
Historically, foreign policy plays a major role in presidential elections only during times of crisis, most notably in the 1968 contest at the height of the Vietnam War and in the 1980 election, during the Iran hostage crisis. In today's interview, Mr. Gore noted that "even in our increasingly interdependent world," where foreign economic crises affect agricultural markets, and when oil supplies are once again a major issue, "foreign policy is still not usually on the front burner for most people." Indeed, at a rally here in Ohio today just before his interview, he never mentioned international issues, and he rarely does from the stump.
"The cliche that you often hear is that it can't help you but it can hurt you," he said. "I'm not sure that's true." His advisers, when speaking on background, often describe Mr. Gore's knowledge of the world in an effort to make the case that he is more suited for the presidency than is Mr. Bush. Mr. Gore himself, earlier this year, described Mr. Bush as "noticeably blank" on issues of foreign policy.
Mr. Gore avoided such criticisms today. But, looking relaxed as he settled into a wingback chair next to a fireplace at a hotel here, he used every opportunity to display the fruits of seven years of daily intelligence briefings. He talked about the nature of the rebellions in Aceh, an Indonesian province, differentiated among the Iraqi groups opposing Mr. Hussein, and discussed at length his conversations with Jiang Zemin, China's president, about Beijing's efforts to control Internet traffic.
"Their efforts to control the Internet are doomed to failure," he said, calling that one of the "happy side effects" of the trade agreement with China that the Senate endorsed two weeks ago by granting China permanent trade status with the United States.
Mr. Gore used the discussion of when he would deploy the military to draw sharp contrasts with Mr. Bush, saying it was "one area where Governor Bush and I part ways." He suggested, as he did on Tuesday night in Boston, that sometimes American troops might be sent to prevent humanitarian crises even if any direct threat to American security was remote. And he drew attention to Bosnia, where he was an earlier advocate of intervention than was President Clinton.
"It was later than it should have been," he said of the decision to use force in Bosnia in 1995. "But it wasn't too late." At another point he said: "It was a hard decision for the United States to get involved. But it was in my view, clearly, the right decision."
Mr. Bush's top foreign policy adviser, Condoleeza Rice, said on Tuesday night in Boston that the governor's concern about "nation building" centered on a fear that American troops were being used for "civil administration, taking kids to kindergarten," and that they are unwisely "sent to intervene in civil wars, as in Haiti."
Mr. Gore acknowledged that there was "a legitimate concern about how far we go," but argued that part of what he called forward engagement in the world was the use of American troops to build courts, administrative agencies and schools. His father, later a senator, had such a role in Germany after World War II, he said.
When the discussion turned away from the Balkans and toward Indonesia -- where the United States has been deeply involved since the Asian economic crisis of 1997 and the forced resignation of President Suharto a year later -- Mr. Gore was clearly less comfortable describing how the United States might make use of "forward engagement."
He said he would talk to American ambassadors, military commanders and knowledgeable academics, in order to "give a more considered answer, rather than trying to hop off on the spur of the moment." But he did not say why he or other members of the administration had not done so yet, given two years of slow disintegration in a nation that is a major supplier of oil to world markets and sits astride vital sea lanes.
Mr. Gore's comments about Mr. Castro reflected both seven years of White House frustration in dealing with Cuba and election-year politics at a time that Florida's 25 electoral votes are being desperately fought over by the two candidates.
Mr. Clinton had hoped, early in his presidency, gradually to lift 40-year-old sanctions against Cuba. Those hopes were dashed when four Cuban American activists from Miami flying near the Cuban coast were shot down in 1996. Congress is now considering legislation that would slightly ease sanctions, allowing the sale of medicine and food. But even if passed into law, the action would be largely symbolic, because a ban on loans and hard-currency transactions would remain in place.
Mr. Gore also had harsh words for Mr. Putin, saying that "I'm very troubled by his apparent backtracking" on the advances in press freedom, and on "his conduct in Chechnya." But he said he would not favor withholding American aid as a lever to change Russia's actions, noting that most of the money goes toward dismantling Russia's nuclear arsenal. Nevertheless, he added, "there is all kinds of leverage" in Washington's other dealings with Moscow.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sylvia Hudson, right, greeted Vice President Al Gore and his wife, Tipper, yesterday as the couple made an impromptu stop to meet students in the bookstore at Youngstown State University in Youngstown, Ohio. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CUBA (94%); EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (88%); KOSOVO (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (71%); MARSHALL PLAN (84%); YOUNGSTOWN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); YOUNGSTOWN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (84%); YOUNGSTOWN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); YOUNGSTOWN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; OHIO; YOUNGSTOWN (OHIO); UNITED STATES (97%); CUBA (94%); EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (88%); KOSOVO (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); OHIO, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (65%); DISMISSALS (60%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES); GORE, TIPPER AL GORE (94%); FIDEL CASTRO (74%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



118 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: Bishop in Exile Prays for Panama's Poor

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ 

 BODY:
A rough ink sketch of Moses, encircled by prayers and petitions, covers the small window in the living room of Bishop Romulo Emiliani, a prominent Roman Catholic cleric in Panama who has ministered to a rugged jungle diocese along the border with Colombia. It is a fitting image these days as he ponders his own hurried exodus from the country he loves.
But the violence from Colombia's long-running civil conflict has increasingly crept into Panama, and with it came the death threats against Bishop Emiliani, who has spoken out against the violence. Now he fears that the increased American anti-drug efforts in Colombia may unintentionally make life worse for Panama and its neighbors. 
 While he once journeyed regularly by jeep, boat or foot through his remote diocese -- a pastor in a lawless wilderness -- he now lives in exile in a dark, two-room basement apartment. He went from being Panama's most visible and outspoken critic of the Colombian conflict -- which threatened the stability of the Darien jungle in Panama -- to living quietly in a city whose location he prefers not to disclose.
By day he studies theology and ministers to a congregation that does not even know he is a bishop. At night he relaxes with poetry, including the writings of Saint John of the Cross, the 16th century Spanish mystic whose poem "The Dark Night of the Soul" seems an apt choice for his uncertain status.
"We all have our dark nights," said Bishop Emiliani, 52. "I feel like someone who was scoring the most goals and now I'm on the bench. Now I see my team falling behind. It's hard to know that although I was once the voice of conscience, I had to be taken out because of fears for my safety."
He fears that darkness may also envelop Panama and the rest of Central America with the increased aid the United States is giving the Colombian government to help fight the drug that has enriched both the guerrillas of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, known as the FARC, and the paramilitary groups there. The conflict has already spilled over into Panama's relatively unprotected border, bringing violence and refugees, kidnappings and the smuggling of weapons and drugs.
Should the violence in Colombia escalate, Bishop Emiliani said, it will only further weaken Central America -- which has yet to fully recover from its own wars during the 1980's -- as more Colombian criminals and combatants turn to the region for weapons and a safe haven.
"The big business now is the arms that come from Central America left over from the various wars in the area," he said. "The situation is very conflicted because the region has high unemployment, underdevelopment and a lot of people who were left with nothing after the wars. Given the present conditions in Central America, I think that in 10 years the zone will become a highly dangerous dictatorship of the underworld."
In recent weeks, Panamanian authorities have arrested 20 people after intercepting several weapons caches -- from assault rifles to rocket-propelled grenades -- that they believe came from Nicaragua and were destined for Colombian guerrillas. Panamanian police uncovered the largest such cache in the nation's history in the city of Chame in early September, which included 271 AK-47 assault rifles, 318 grenade launchers, 73,000 rounds of ammunition and more than a ton of TNT. Other caches have included cocaine, which the police believe was in partial payment for the weapons.
The discoveries have led the government of neighboring Costa Rica to set up checkpoints along the Pan American Highway and call for a regional effort against the arms trade. Panamanian officials have pledged to help, and have begun by asking United States law enforcement agencies for assistance.
The situation is delicate for Panama, whose leaders have insisted that they wish no part of the Colombian conflict. Carlos Bares, the director of Panama's National Police, said that the border with Colombia has been quiet for now, although there have been press reports of growing activity in the area by Colombian paramilitary troops. He admitted that the Panamanian border police could use more training and equipment.
"The problems of Colombia are Colombia's problem," he said. "But if arms come through here, wherever they are headed, it is our obligation to stop them."
But a FARC commander said recently that the Colombian guerrillas would continue buying weapons in Panama and that they refused to rule out the possibility of violence spilling into the country once the American-supported antinarcotics effort begins.
"We have to buy arms," Commandante Andres Paris was quoted as saying in the Panamanian newspaper El Panama America. "Or do you think we are going to defend ourselves throwing popcorn?"
Such talk represents the kind of escalation that Bishop Emiliani had been warning about in Panama in his sermons, pastoral letters and radio addresses for years. His worries had earned him a reputation for being alarmist, but he refused to keep quiet since his network of missionaries, lay people and aid workers in the diocese gave him an almost unrivaled perspective on the Darien jungle region.
"Is it a war against the drug traffic or against the guerrillas that could become worse than Vietnam?" Bishop Emiliani said. "The fear is that it would become a war against the guerrillas, and then the conflict would be internationalized."
Bishop Emiliani has noted that over the years the FARC had been accustomed to using the jungle for rest and resupply, for checking in with friendly Panamanian informants and to buy food, clothing and arms. But the recent arrival of paramilitary groups bent on seeking vengeance has increased violence and tensions, themes that came to dominate sermons where he exhorted "those groups of armed Colombians" to "keep your hands off the Darien."
Before long friends were telling him to watch out, since they had heard troubling talk about retaliations. Then came the anonymous phone calls, including one he received shortly after accompanying a group of Panamanian police as they tried to intercept a drug shipment.
"It was an ugly call where they said they were tired of me speaking out," he said. "They said I should dedicate myself to the temple. That they would slit my throat if not. But for me, the temple of God is the people, not that I was going to get into that over the phone. To say I should be inside some little church saying Mass, that is a very poor vision of what the church should be."
It was, however, frightening enough to have the Vatican suggest that he leave Panama for at least six months out of concern for his safety. His departure in July has left his fellow clergy fearful, while others who are also concerned about the border worry that the Panamanian government officials will ignore or play down the troubles.
"Bishop Emiliani was very important because he had the best network of information in the Darien," said Otilia Tejeira, a human rights advocate in Panama City. "Now nobody knows what's going on. Now all you hear is what the government says."
Inside his small apartment, Bishop Emiliani grows restless as he grapples with being so far away from the jungle he loves. He said that the region's governments have yet to look beyond their borders to the threat posed by the arms merchants who enlist local help in ferrying weapons and drugs.
Recently, he has begun to send messages to Panama, urging not only more regional cooperation but also a renewed effort by the authorities to alleviate the poverty and hopelessness that prevails on the margins of society, whether in the jungles or the slums.
"This is a Central American problem, and people have not been too creative," he said. "In the church, we have not reached the people. The governments do not have too many tools at their disposal. They lack the capacity and talent and are too burdened with foreign debt. The governments are preoccupied with keeping themselves in power through little battles without making any clear plans for development."
He writes these messages on a desk cluttered with papers and books including a biography of Pope John Paul II and "100 Ways to Motivate Yourself." Not that he needs any further prompting, considering one to-do list he has taped to the window, alongside the religious drawings. It reads, "Heal Central America."
"It's a big goal, granted," he said. "Someone once said you need to aim your arrows at the moon so at least you might miss and hit a star."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bishop Romulo Emiliani now lives in exile in a place he keeps secret. He was threatened for opposing the civil conflict creeping into Panama. (David Gonzalez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PANAMA (99%); COLOMBIA (97%); CENTRAL AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: PANAMA; COLOMBIA; PANAMA (99%); COLOMBIA (97%); CENTRAL AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; COLOMBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FOREIGN AID RELIGION (95%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (89%); SMUGGLING (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); CIVIL WAR (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (75%); REFUGEES (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (70%); DRUG POLICY (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (65%); POETRY (65%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (64%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (60%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID; EMILIANI, ROMULO (BISHOP)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



119 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
Gore Aides See Slips by Bush After Tallying Debating Points

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WARREN, Ohio, Oct. 4

 BODY:
A day after his first debate with Gov. George W. Bush, Vice President Al Gore seemed far removed from the thrust and parry of forensics.
At a rally in the courthouse square here, Mr. Gore mentioned the debate only in passing. "Did you see the debate last night?" he asked the crowd. "I don't know about you, but I think, even though Governor Bush and I have a lot of differences, personally, I think it's better to spend time attacking America's problems than attacking people personally." The audience cheered. 
 Offstage, Mr. Gore's campaign aides accused Mr. Bush of making several misstatements in the 90-minute exchange in Boston on Tuesday night and acknowledged that Mr. Gore had made a couple of slips himself. Mr. Gore conceded that he did not examine fires in Texas in 1998 with the director of the federal disaster agency, as he had said in the debate. It was the deputy director.
But today, Mr. Gore focused on education, health care and preserving retirement security. Similarly, at a rally on Tuesday night in Boston after the debate, Mr. Gore did not mention the big event either, dwelling instead on his fond recollections of Boston from his days at Harvard.
This morning, Mr. Gore was queried on several television talk shows about his debate performance. But he showed little interest in rehashing the event, even though many talk-show hosts suggested he had won.
Christopher Lehane, a Gore campaign spokesman, said Mr. Bush had made at least four misstatements:
*That as president he would not be able to overturn the decision by the Food and Drug Administration to legalize the abortion pill RU-486. "In the past he has said if he was president, he would have the government review it," Mr. Lehane said.
*That Mr. Gore had outspent him in the presidential campaign. "Bush has spent $93 million, we spent $46 million," Mr. Lehane said.
*That the Strunk family from Allentown, Pa., would benefit under his prescription drug plan. Mr. Lehane said the family would not qualify because their income is too high.
*His response when Mr. Gore asked where he would find the trillion dollars to privatize Social Security: "The trillion dollars comes from the surplus." Mr. Lehane pounced on this answer, saying, "A trillion dollars on top of his budget numbers already? That would be economically disastrous for our country -- there's absolutely no way that that money exists."
In a second debate misstatement cited by the Bush campaign, Mr. Gore said Sarasota High School in Florida was overcrowded. He had based this on a letter from the father of a student at the school and an enclosed newspaper clipping. But the school principal, Daniel Kennedy, said today that the student's classroom had been overcrowded on one particular day because it was being refurbished.

	--------------------	 	
 
Event Snarls New Jersey
The performance by Jon Bon Jovi at his New Jersey home last night may have been unusually decorous for a rock concert. But security for the guest of honor, Vice President Al Gore, turned parts of the state into a veritable mosh pit.
State police closed off miles of road for Mr. Gore, who flew in and out of Newark International Airport for a Democratic fund-raiser on Mr. Bon Jovi's 18-acre riverside estate in Middletown Township in Monmouth County.
Jon S. Corzine, the party's candidate for the seat being vacated by Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, also attended the event, which raised $850,000 for Mr. Gore's campaign.
On the New Jersey Turnpike, the Garden State Parkway, I-78 and I-80, cars were backed up for miles, first about 6 p.m. and then again after the fund-raiser ended about 9 p.m., traffic monitors said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (52%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO; UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (52%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; DEBATING; TELEVISION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); BUDGETS (75%); FORENSICS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); PRIVATIZATION (72%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (70%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (68%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (67%); SOCIAL SECURITY (67%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (65%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (63%); ABORTION (63%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



120 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000

SECTION: Section W; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 86 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: WORLD TRADE;
U.N. SEES $1 TRILLION IN GLOBAL INVESTMENT

BYLINE: By Elizabeth Olson 

 BODY:
Foreign direct investment worldwide, fueled by cross-border mergers and acquisitions, is expected to increase to $1 trillion this year, up from $865 billion in 1999, the United Nations trade and development agency said. In its World Investment Report the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development said industrialized economies led by the United States received the largest share of investment inflow, with $276 billion, more than all developing countries combined, at $208 billion. Elizabeth Olson
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS TRADE & DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MONGOLIA (58%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); TRADE & DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (84%); TRADE & DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); TRADE & DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (84%); TRADE & DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INWARD INVESTMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); TRENDS (88%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (87%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (85%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (82%); 

PERSON: OLSON, ELIZABETH ELIZABETH OLSON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



121 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Return to Glory? No, but Yankees Win

BYLINE: By BUSTER OLNEY 

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif., Oct. 4

 BODY:
His juggernaut had stalled and Joe Torre figured it was time for change, and there was nothing conventional about the decisions he made tonight other than to rely, again, on Andy Pettitte.
Torre, the Yankees' manager, allowed Glenallen Hill to bat in the sixth inning when numbers and logic screamed for him to make a change, and Hill drove in the first run. Torre benched Chuck Knoblauch and stuck with Luis Sojo at second base, and Sojo had two runs batted in. And Pettitte gave the Yankees exactly what they needed, shutting out Oakland for seven and two-thirds innings in a 4-0 victory that revitalized Torre's team in this American League division series. 
 The Yankees and Athletics are tied at 1-1 in their three-of-five-game series; Orlando Hernandez will face Oakland's Tim Hudson in Game 3 Friday night in Yankee Stadium.
 The Yankees had not won a game in 10 days and this victory serves to relax them. As they ate and dressed after the game, they could laugh and joke about the replay of Sojo's goofy eighth-inning error that could have led to disaster. In short, they seemed like themselves again. "This was a huge game for us," Pettitte said.
Torre treated it that way. The Yankees' desperation was growing and Torre decided to change his lineup radically, benching Knoblauch, inserting Hill as the designated hitter, promoting Derek Jeter to the leadoff spot, moving David Justice up to the No. 3 slot and Paul O'Neill down to the No. 6 spot. All kinds of changes. Torre told the team's principal owner, George Steinbrenner, about them by phone today. "Good," Steinbrenner responded.
Nothing worked at first. O'Neill came to bat in the first inning, bases loaded and two out, squinting in the shadows to see Oakland's Kevin Appier. O'Neill was mumbling to himself, appearing to say, "Come on, come on." But he lifted a looping liner to right, and while Oakland right fielder Adam Piatt battled the glare of the setting sun to make the catch, O'Neill barely moved up the first-base line, rigid with frustration.
The Yankees did not have any base runners in the second or third innings, and when Bernie Williams led off the fourth with a single, Torre lifted the choke on his offense, trying to get it started, putting Williams in motion on a hit-and-run with one out. But Williams was thrown out at second -- replays showed he was actually safe -- and the Yankees could not advance Sojo the next inning, after he led off with a walk.
The Yankees had no runs after five innings, drought conditions again, and their pre-eminence seemed to be hanging in the balance; a loss in this game, some of the Yankees agreed before the game, would be devastating, a body blow to a team in pursuit of its third consecutive World Series title.
It was a good thing for the Yankees that Pettitte was pitching. October tends to grab Pettitte's wandering attention, and he appeared in a deep trance facing the Athletics tonight, staring in for the sign. Like his idol, Roger Clemens, Pettitte decided not to shave before the game, to minimal effect; Clemens has a forest of facial hair, Pettitte a few seedlings.
Oakland had runners at first and third in the first inning -- once again, the Athletics had brazenly and successfully challenged O'Neill's throwing arm -- and Olmedo Saenz bounced to third to start a double play. Saenz was the first of 13 straight Oakland batters who would not reach base.
With one out in the sixth, Williams turned on a pitch inside and smashed a liner down the right-field line for a double. Tino Martinez whiffed for the second out. Oakland Manager Art Howe ambled to the mound to discuss the options. O'Neill, a left-handed batter, was due to bat. He was hitless in his last 17 at-bats, dating from Sept. 27. The right-handed-hitting Hill was on deck, coming off the worst at-bat of any player in this series: Appier had closed out the fourth inning by throwing three sliders to Hill, who had swung and missed badly on all of them.
"We felt like our best shot was going after Glenallen," Howe said later.
Now Torre had a decision. At that moment, Hill had only two hits in 14 at-bats in his career against Appier, with strikeouts in three of his last four at-bats. Luis Polonia, sitting on Torre's bench, had 22 hits in 63 career at-bats against Appier, for a .349 average. Knoblauch had good career numbers against Appier as well. "There's no question that everything crosses your mind," Torre said. "When you make a commitment, we just decided, let's stay with him."
Hill saw Oakland catcher Ramon Hernandez set up for the intentional walk; big mistake, he thought to himself. Hill had been overeager in his first two at-bats, as if he were swinging 500 miles an hour, he said, and the ball were being thrown 2 m.p.h. Hill went to the plate looking for an off-speed pitch, and when Appier threw a slider, Hill smacked a bounding single through the middle, scoring Williams. Several of the Yankees burst from their dugout, shouting, Jeter clapping as he greeted Williams. The Yankees had a lead.
Sojo then hacked at a fastball with that awkward, off-balance swing of his and drove a grounder past the dive of first baseman Jason Giambi, and Yankees circled the bases -- O'Neill came across the plate first, the first time he has scored a run since Sept. 12, and Hill followed. "There was a little bit of luck there," Sojo said later, through a smile. Three runs in all for the Yankees, no small accomplishment.
Pettitte had pitched with economy, limiting the pitches he threw inning to inning. Eric Chavez doubled to open the sixth and Pettitte retired the next three batters. Oakland had runners at first and second with one out in the seventh and Ben Grieve bounced into a double play. Pettitte drew back his left hand, made a fist, and jabbed at the air. The Yankees had counterpunched, the dynasty still standing, Round 3 on Friday.
There was one brief goose-bumped moment in the eighth. Oakland had a runner at second and two out, and Sojo fielded a routine ground ball and stepped to throw to first -- and his right foot caught on the shoelaces of his left foot, and he fell down. Oakland had two runners now, and Mariano Rivera relieved Pettitte. Sojo, embarrassed, would not go to the mound during the change, standing next to Umpire Paul Schrieber. "What are you laughing at?" Sojo asked the ump.
Oakland's Randy Velarde chopped a grounder toward third; when it took an awkward hop, Scott Brosius knocked it down with his bare hand and threw to first. The Yankees added a run in the top of the ninth, and they all chuckled about Sojo and his feet. Maybe a time will come when they can laugh about that season-ending losing streak, too.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Glenallen Hill cracking his single that scored Bernie Williams in the sixth for the first run of the game.; Andy Pettitte gave the Yankees what they needed last night, pitching seven and two-third shutout innings. (Photographs by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. D1); Paul O'Neill being congratulated by Derek Jeter and Bernie Williams after he scored in the sixth last night. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

CITY: OAKLAND, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES; OAKLAND ATHLETICS NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); OAKLAND A'S (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES; OAKLAND ATHLETICS NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); OAKLAND A'S (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; PLAYOFF GAMES BASEBALL (93%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (72%); TOURNAMENTS (68%); RUNNING (57%); DROUGHT (50%); 

PERSON: OLNEY, BUSTER DEREK JETER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



122 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: Bush vs. Gore, Round 1: Now the People Debate;
Specifics Counted

 BODY:

To the Editor:
In the first presidential debate there were two clearly different and unfair standards for success ("Bush and Gore Stake Out Differences in First Debate," front page, Oct. 4). Al Gore had to be articulate without being too confrontational and "policy wonkish." George W. Bush had to show up and speak articulately. 
 Al Gore put on a bravura performance on Tuesday night by providing specific, easily understood descriptions of his proposals and pointed contrasts to Mr. Bush's plans. He was superlative on taxes, deficit reduction, Social Security, reproductive rights and Medicare and provided contrast without resorting to personal attacks.
Mr. Bush did show up, and he spoke articulately. But he paled in comparison to Mr. Gore. He never responded to Mr. Gore's point that his tax cut would go to the wealthiest 1 percent of the population. He was also weak on foreign policy, military leadership, handling a financial crisis, and on abortion.
Mr. Gore exceeded expectations by being specific without sullying the debate. Mr. Bush met his minimal standard for success, but do we really want a president who is held to such low standards of competence?
 
TOM CROARKIN
Fairfield, Conn., Oct. 4, 2000
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); CONNECTICUT, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; DEBATING POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); TAX LAW (75%); TAX RELIEF (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); ABORTION (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CROARKIN, TOM AL GORE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



123 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C;Page 1;Column 1;Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Dell Warns That Its Sales Will Not Meet Estimates
Dell Computer told analysts that its third-quarter sales would fall about $8.2 billion, or 3 percent, below estimates, attributing the problems to weak demand in Europe and from small-business customers in the United States. 
 The announcement, combined with similar shortfalls from Apple Computer and Intel, could indicate a widespread slackening of demand for computers. Page C10.
 
Brothers to Combine Their Banks
Firstar of Milwaukee agreed to acquire U.S. Bancorp of Minneapolis in a $21 billion stock deal that unites two large regional banks led by brothers. The combination will create the nation's eighth-biggest bank. C4.
 
Nasdaq Rebounds With a 2% Gain
The Nasdaq composite index gained 67.27 points, or 2 percent, to 3,523.10. The Dow Jones industrial average advanced 64.74 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,784.48, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 7.86 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,434.32. C12.
 
PepsiCo Chief to Retire Next Year
Roger A. Enrico, 55, left, the chairman and chief executive of PepsiCo, who transformed the company from an expansive and rather cumbersome conglomerate into a streamlined packaged-foods company, announced that he would retire by the end of next year. Steve S. Reinemund, 52, PepsiCo's president and chief operating officer, who is known for his tenacious and, at times, single-minded focus on growth, will take over as chief executive by 2002 and chairman by 2003. C2.
 
Drug Makers' Broad Unseen Reach
With prescription drug prices at the center of the political debate, the drug industry has so far staved off what it fears most: a government-run prescription drug plan for the elderly, which drug makers say could lead to price controls. The industry has a broad and sometimes unseen reach into the debate. A1.
 
Oracle Reaffirms Its Projections
Oracle executives sought to clarify remarks made earlier in the week by the company's chief financial officer that apparently led to a sell-off in its stock. The company reaffirmed its revenue and earnings projections. C10.
 
Firestone Accused of Hiding Defects
Ford's Venezuelan unit accused Firestone of hiding defects in its tires and said the company should take responsibility for more than 100 road accidents in Venezuela. C19.
 
Not Enough Air Travel Deregulation
With deregulation, more people are flying than ever before, but delays are common. That is because airports and the air traffic control system are still owned and operated by government agencies and have neither the flexibility nor the incentives to operate efficiently. Virginia Postrel: Economic Scene. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 6, 2000, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An entry in the Business Digest yesterday about Dell Computer's announcement that its sales growth could slow in the third quarter misstated its projection. Dell predicted a revenue increase to about $8.2 billion -- 3 percent below estimates -- not a decrease of $8.2 billion.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,784.48 down 64.74
Nasdaq composite -- 3,523.10 up 67.27
10-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.88% up 0.02
The euro -- $0.8745 down 0.0001
The dollar -- 109.38 yen down 0.52

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: USB (NYSE) (83%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); PEP (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%); 

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: U S BANCORP (83%); INTEL CORP (58%); PEPSICO INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (95%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); DEREGULATION (86%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (70%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (69%); DRUG PRICES (69%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (69%); PACKAGED GOODS (67%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); POLITICAL DEBATES (63%); AGING (63%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (60%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (60%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000



124 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 36; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW;
'Year One,' a Conceit for the Millennium

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH 

 BODY:
Until now the prospect of the 21st century and third millennium had not evoked much comment at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The Whitney Museum of American Art and the Museum of Modern Art have gone all out, with two- and three-part exhibitions of the last 100 years or so of modern art. In its own all-museum effort, "1900: Art at the Crossroads," the Guggenheim looked back to the preceding fin de siecle, showing a cross section of academic and advanced art of that moment.
The Met, meanwhile, seemed to be sitting on its hands, perhaps understandably. After all, what's a new century or even a new millennium to a museum that covers five or six thousand years of art from around the world? But apparently it's not over until the fat museum sings. The Met seems to have felt that some gesture was in order, a suitably understated yet distinctive event that only a museum of its stature and girth could pull off. 
 A result is "The Year One: Art of the Ancient World East and West," a little show with a catchy title and a big reach. Forget about 1900 or the 1900's or anything so gauche as a museumwide celebration. "The Year One" puts the fleeting convention of the millennial-marking art exhibition in a new perspective.
Occupying a handful of galleries and containing a mere 150 objects, many of them quite small, this show simply looks back 2,000 years to the start of what historians sometimes call the "modern era," marked by the birth of Jesus. It takes a core sample of the nearly two dozen cultures flourishing at the beginning of the first millennium that are represented in the Met's collection and comes up with an array that includes coins and seals, jewelry and other accessories, glass, silver utensils, portrait busts, carved reliefs and sculptures, votive objects, architectural fragments, ceremonial vessels of ceramic and bronze and one stunning example of the so-called third style Roman wall painting.
The exhibition, which is the work of a team of curators coordinated by Elizabeth J. Milleker, associate curator in the museum's Greek and Roman department, has an ambitious goal. It sets out to demonstrate that in the several centuries around the year 1, the disparate cultures of the world began to have a new awareness of one another, stimulated by the expansion of stable empires and of trade, which moved people and objects across the vast Eurasian land mass. With them traveled ideas and religious beliefs as well as stylistic conventions, materials and artistic techniques.
The installation travels from west to east, from the several cultures encompassed by the Roman Empire under Augustus through the Parthian Empire of present-day Iran and Iraq, the Kushan Empire of northwestern India, the seminomadic Xiongnu Empire of Inner Mongolia, and finally to the Han Dynasty of China and the other Asian cultures clustered around it.
The exhibition as art-historical time slice can seem arbitrary and capricious, especially when the slice tends toward spongy: the objects here date from the fourth century B.C. to the third century A.D. Korea is represented by a single ceramic funerary urn in the shape of a bird; Thailand by six bronze objects, most outstandingly an eight-inch-high container covered with spirals that suggest both waves and basketry. The Xiongnu Empire, one of the show's big five, seems to be represented by almost nothing except some wonderful silver and bronze plaques with animal motifs that were made by Northern Chinese artisans and prized by the Xiongnu for use on harnesses or belts. And for some reason the show steps outside its premise at the last minute, concluding with four pre-Columbian objects, among them a small Mayan jar of carved stone, its surface enlivened by animal motifs.
The show begins in galleries adjacent to the new Greek and Roman galleries, and at first it feels like an extension of them. The first works reflect the expansion and revitalization of the Roman Empire under Augustus, the first Roman emperor, who ruled from 27 B.C. to A.D. 14. Augustus started and mostly completed the building of imperial Rome, tripling the city's size. He continued to import and emulate Greek culture and secured Egypt, whose Red Sea ports gave Roman sailors access to the Arabian Sea for the first time. The first object in the exhibition is a full-length, life-size bronze sculpture of a Roman boy made in Egypt; the second gallery has a large carved stone urn made in Greece for export to Rome.
It is as unusual for the Met to mix its cultures as it has been until recently for the Modern to mix its mediums, and it should happen more often. Here objects that are usually spread throughout the museum's building -- "four blocks apart," in the words of one staff member -- are seen out of context, in the company of relative strangers. And the viewing conditions are outstanding: the lighting is good and objects can be looked at closely and in the round.
In the show's center in particular one can follow the progress of certain influences, like the give and take between Hellenistic and Asian traits, through different cultures. They compete openly in a vitrine of small Parthian figures. They are united in two carved gravestones from the great Mediterranean trading center Palmyra, which show a man and a woman in tautly-wrapped drapery with star-struck Byzantine eyes. And they go their separate ways in Gandhara, a part of the Kushan Empire: represented here by a small relief (a stair riser) depicting maritime deities whose bulging muscles echo a Greek ideal, and an early stone carving of a Bodhisattva that even without its head is as imposing as it is otherworldly.
Objects that may previously have blended into permanent collection displays can suddenly stop you in your tracks, like a small terra-cotta relief from the Shunga Dynasty of India that depicts an unusually loving royal family in finely textured garments or a Han Dynasty mortuary pillar stamped with the relatively refined patterns of serpents and topped by a fierce gnomelike guardian detailed with incisions at once brusque and deft.
One certain showstopper is a large bronze ceremonial vessel from Indonesia (500 B.C. to A.D. 300) shaped like an ax head standing on its blade. This tall, slim, oddly flattened volume is accented along its gracefully curving edges with tear-shaped ribs thought to have been inspired by water buffalo horns and down its center with a starred diamond pattern. It is startlingly figural, like a regal torso, abstracted yet corseted.
But at least one transformation involves more than a change of scene. One of the most stunning inclusions is a re-creation of the black and dark red frescoes originally made for bedrooms in the summer villa of Agrippa, friend and son-in-law of Augustus. The fresco panels, embellished with trompe l'oeil images of ornate yet attenuated architectural supports and horizontal cornices that mingle Greek and Egyptian influences, were staples of the old Greek and Roman galleries. But to see them in situ, relatively speaking, is to see as never before their deliciously sophisticated mixture of decorative illusion (suggestions of gilded and painted bronze, carved wood, inlaid stone), natural detail and spatial inconsistency. The black simultaneously reads as shallowly niched wall surface and infinite nocturnal space, its doubleness compounded by dark-red dado and the presence of small, free-floating landscapes whose bits of architecture are as ephemeral as the structure that hovers around us.
Often the cultural, political and economic forces that this show tries to reflect are more complex than the objects can sustain; it begins to feel sketchy to the point of skeletal, more like an outline than a full exhibition. But even as the high concept evaporates and a more traditional form of connoisseurship prevails, one comes away with a succinct perception of culture as eternally in flux, driven by the incessant human desires for beauty, power and comfort and the need to know what's over the horizon.
 
"The Year One: Art of the Ancient World East and West" is at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 879-5500, through Jan. 14.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Torso of a Bodhisattva and, at bottom, a ceremonial object in the form of an ax head. Both are in "The Year One" at the Met. (Photographs from the Metropolitan Museum of Art)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (70%); IRAQ (64%); INDIA (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) INNER MONGOLIA EERDUOSI (50%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (93%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (93%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (70%); IRAQ (64%); INDIA (50%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); MILLENNIUM (92%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); CLASSICS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); HISTORY (78%); RELIGION (63%); 

PERSON: SMITH, ROBERTA

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000



125 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 36; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW;
Seeking a Constant in the Many Styles of Lee Krasner

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON 

 BODY:
Did Lee Krasner (1908-1984) never find her true calling as a painter? Or was she a postmodernist before the fact? That is to say, did she reject the Abstract Expressionist myth of natural genius and deep authenticity and by working in a variety of styles over the course of her five-decade career realize the self as a field of socially constructed possibilities?
In his catalog essay for the Krasner retrospective that opens today at the Brooklyn Museum of Art, the show's curator, Robert Hobbs, argues at length and often ingeniously for the latter view. 
 Mr. Hobbs positions Krasner -- who was, depending on how you look at it, blessed or cursed by marriage to Jackson Pollock -- as an anti-Abstract Expressionist. "Her reluctance (or inability) to settle on a single defining image serves in retrospect as a cogent critique of Abstract Expressionism," Mr. Hobbs asserts. "In refusing to settle for long on such a limiting tactic, she presents an understanding of the problematics of a contingent self that is particularly germane today."
It is a canny approach. What might be seen as the central weakness of Krasner's art, its apparent lack of originality or consistent development, Mr. Hobbs turns into a strength, an embrace of complexity and unpredictability.
Looking at the show's 60 works, dating from 1930 to 1981, however, it is hard to deny that despite its restless, searching energy and sporadic moments of formal power or elegance, Krasner's career looks more like one of tantalizing frustration than of real fulfillment.
Born in Brooklyn, Krasner began her art career in high school. She found her way early into bohemian art circles, befriending the poet and later critic Harold Rosenberg, embracing Trotskyist politics and joining the avant-garde American Abstract Artists in the late 1930's. After meeting Pollock and moving in with him in 1941 (they married in 1945), she devoted herself wholeheartedly to promoting his career and caring for his fragile psyche.
Fairly or not, Krasner has been known mainly for being Pollock's wife. Her own painting, which almost always looks heavily influenced by other artists, was never memorable enough to secure her own niche in the Abstract Expressionist pantheon until forces of feminism began working to upgrade her reputation.
As economically presented in this show, organized by Independent Curators International, Krasner's career looks like that of an ambitious perennial student. It begins with a routine, academic self-portrait, followed by an exercise in de Chirico-like Surrealism. In the late 1930's, she made handsome abstractions under the tutelage of Hans Hofmann and, a little later, a couple of abstracted, strongly linear still lifes resembling Arshile Gorky's early imitations of Picasso.
Krasner's "Little Image" series from the late 40's includes grids of hieroglyphic signs that call to mind the pictographic works of Adolph Gottlieb, and small-scale allover webs of spidery white lines on black that echo Pollock's ground-breaking cultivation of the allover field. Original or not, these paintings have a fine material and optical concentration, suggesting that Krasner's talent may have been best suited for more intimate ways of working. But she had bigger aspirations.
After her husband's death in 1956, Krasner burst out with a series of large-scale Abstract Expressionist paintings called the "Earth Green" series: loopy, raw and splattery pictures with mythic titles like "Birth" and "Sun Woman" that look heavily indebted to Matisse, Pollock and de Kooning. The climactic "Seasons" packs a roiling, primitivistic frieze of harsh pink, biomorphic fertility forms (breasts, buttocks, leaves and other bulging shapes) clumsily outlined in a fat black line and set off against drab green negative spaces on a 17-foot-wide canvas.
In the early 1960's, in another burst of energy after the death of her mother, Krasner produced a series of all-brown paintings with dense, allover compositions of swirly lines and hectic spattered texture that critics at the time saw as throwbacks to the glory days of Abstract Expressionism. But later in that decade, in tune with abstract painting of the time generally, Krasner turned to a more colorful, even gaudy palette, as in the garishly pink and purple "Gaea" (1966), and to more boldly defined forms, as in "Green Fuse" (1968), with its white egg shapes and wide arcing bands set off against a deep blue background and accented by vehement splashes of red and green.
Finally, in the 1970's, Krasner responded to the emergence of Color Field painting and Minimalism by simplifying her compositions and replacing areas of gestural texture with flat planes of saturated color, transforming her expressionism into a bland, emblematic design with vaguely exotic (Native American or Far Eastern) overtones.
Two episodes that stand out from this history of generic painting hint at a more personal road that Krasner might have taken. One day in the early 1950's, in a fit of dissatisfaction, Krasner tore up all the paintings and drawings in her studio. Returning two weeks later, she became interested in the chance arrangements of torn shapes on the floor and she began gluing fragments of painted or raw canvas and paper onto large canvases, creating jumbled Cubist compositions.
Some, like "City Verticals" (1953), are dense, wall-like accumulations of vertical strips; others, like "Bird Talk" (1955), have an airy, animated feeling. There are precedents for the collages, from Kurt Schwitters to Robert Motherwell, but they have their own exuberantly playful vitality and raw sensuousness. Krasner's exhibition of these works in 1955 was a critical success; Clement Greenberg called it one of the most important shows of the decade.
Twenty years later, Krasner started another series of collages, this time carefully cutting up her own 40-year-old charcoal studies from Hofmann's life drawing classes and neatly gluing to stretched canvases. These beautiful works are surely the most distinctive of Krasner's career.
Within rectilinear formats, razor-sharp diagonals and sweeping curves cut this way and that, the internal soft grays and blacks of the original drawings adding ambiguous atmospheric depths and a patina of antiquity. In "Imperative" (1976), the interplay of the grid and the central triangle create a classical stability, while dislodged, knifelike shards and the angular, faceted drawing of Krasner's early studies create a kaleidoscopic effect.
These works hark back to early-20th-century Cubism and Futurism yet have an expansive openness that belongs to the 1970's. One senses that Krasner was in sync with the collage process in a way that she never was with painting.
Her painting had a kind of impatient, even desperate urgency; she seemed to throw herself at painting, as if she thought she could make a painting through sheer force of will. Almost always there is a turbulent excitement, but you miss the painterly sensuality of de Kooning or the perfect rhythm of Pollock or the color and light in Joan Mitchell's work. Perhaps Krasner was intimidated by the importance of painting and had too clear an idea of what major painting was supposed to look like: like Picasso, Matisse, Pollock or de Kooning. To collage, it seems, she brought fewer preconceptions, allowing the process to be one of discovery rather than imitation.
Taking Mr. Hobbs's hint, it might also be that collage enabled the realization of a more complicated and contradictory self. If the singular Abstract Expressionist image comes from the achievement of a wholly unified creative persona, a unity that Krasner could never achieve, then collage could be a way to reflect the experience of a disjunctive, multiple self, a self at once new and old, orderly and dynamic, delicate and aggressive, impulsive and controlled, intellectual and intuitive.
Krasner was not a postmodernist; she wanted all too obviously to be a great Modernist painter. But she had her moments of exhilarating freedom from that oppressive ambition.
 
"Lee Krasner" is at the Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, through Jan. 7.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lee Krasner's "Imperative" (1976), left, a collage of canvas and old drawings; and white forms and vehemence in "The Green Fuse" (1968). (Photographs from the Brooklyn Museum of Art)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BROOKLYN MUSEUM OF ART

ORGANIZATION: BROOKLYN MUSEUM OF ART

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); MARRIAGE (74%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: KRASNER, LEE (1908-1984); JOHNSON, KEN LEE KRASNER (97%); JACKSON POLLOCK (77%); ROBERT HOBBS (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000



126 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2000

SECTION: Section W; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: European Court Overturns Ban On Tobacco Ads

BYLINE: By SUZANNE KAPNER 

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct. 5

 BODY:
The European Court of Justice, Europe's highest court, today overturned a ban that would have phased out tobacco advertising across Europe.
In a final decision, the court sided with the German government and four British tobacco companies, which had argued that the European Union was overstepping its jurisdiction in enacting the ban. Tobacco legislation, they argued, is a health matter, and as such should be decided by individual countries, not by the European Union, which oversees market competition among its 15 member nations. They also argued that the ban violated their freedom of speech. 
 "Governments and the commission are not above the law," said John Carlisle, public affairs director for the Tobacco Manufacturers Association. "We feel justified in our actions and hope they will result in a better and fairer mix of legislation in the future." British American Tobacco P.L.C., the Gallaher Group, the Imperial Tobacco Group and Rothmans Ltd. had appealed the ban.
A British high court judge had approved a request by the tobacco companies to take their appeal to the European Union court. The ruling today was based on a recommendation in June from the court's advocate general, Nial Fennelly, who said the European Union did not have the legal standing to enact such a ban.
But the victory is likely to be short-lived for the tobacco industry, which could be facing new restrictions. The European Parliament is considering a directive that would cut the tar content of cigarettes and require larger health warnings on packs. And even though the current advertising ban -- which was ratified by the European Parliament in 1998 and proposed phasing out newspaper, magazine and billboard tobacco advertising across Europe by 2006 -- has been overturned, individual governments are likely to take up the issue.
Britain's public health minister, Yvette Cooper, said today that the government intends to push ahead with a ban on tobacco advertising, despite the European court's ruling.
"This ruling is a disappointment, but it will not deflect us from implementing our manifesto commitment to ban tobacco advertising," the minister said. "We hope that the European Commission will bring forward new proposals in this area as soon as it possibly can."
In response, Mr. Carlisle of the Tobacco Manufacturers Association said, "We would urgently ask the minister to talk to us before framing any legislation so we can help them make sure that what they're proposing is workable."
More than half a million Europeans die each year from tobacco- related illnesses, according to Action on Smoking and Health, a British-based anti-smoking lobby group.
"I am disappointed," Clive Bates, the group's director, said of the court's decision today. "In Britain, we'll be O.K. But we do want to do something that benefits all citizens of the E.U." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BTI (NYSE MKT) (84%); BTI (JSE) (84%); BATS (LSE) (84%); IMT (LSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (84%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (99%); EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN COURT OF JUSTICE; BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC; GALLAHER GROUP; IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC; ROTHMANS HOLDINGS LTD BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC (84%); IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC (58%); EUROPEAN COURT OF JUSTICE (94%); EUROPEAN COURT OF JUSTICE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (54%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN COURT OF JUSTICE; BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC; GALLAHER GROUP; IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC; ROTHMANS HOLDINGS LTD EUROPEAN COURT OF JUSTICE (94%); EUROPEAN COURT OF JUSTICE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (54%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; GERMANY; EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (99%); EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ADVERTISING; LABELING AND LABELS TOBACCO INDUSTRY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION COURTS (93%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (92%); EUROPEAN UNION (92%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); TOBACCO MFG (91%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); APPEALS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (90%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SMOKING (89%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); SMOKING BANS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (73%); APPROVALS (73%); JUDGES (73%); STANDING TO SUE (67%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%); 

PERSON: KAPNER, SUZANNE YVETTE COOPER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000



127 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: Prosperity and Poverty

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Low-Wage Jobs Leading Gains in Employment" (front page, Oct. 1):
"Real wages" are derived by dividing the wages by the Consumer Price Index. It is widely accepted that the index has overestimated inflation. If the index is too high, derived real wages are too low. 
 In 1996, the Boskin Commission estimated that the index was overstating inflation by more than 1 percent per year. With a more accurate measure of inflation, the real earnings of the cited groups did not fall at all -- real earnings rose.
Census data show that the poverty rate in New York declined from a peak of 17 percent in 1994 to 14.1 percent in 1999. Moreover, New York was one of only four states to experience both a significant decline in poverty and a rise in real income.
As a matter of statistics or common sense, prosperity does not breed poverty.
 
STEPHEN KAGANN
New York, Oct. 3, 2000
 
The writer is chief economist to Gov. George E. Pataki. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS WAGES & SALARIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INFLATION (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); POVERTY RATES (87%); TRENDS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); CENSUS (53%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); KAGANN, STEPHEN EDDIE GEORGE (69%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000



128 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; Style Desk; Fashion Page

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Reporter's Notebook;
Armani Hammers Chaos Into Order in Final Touches on His Fashion Palace

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY 

DATELINE: MILAN, Oct. 5

 BODY:
Workers erected a perimeter fence of fresh-cut oak branches along the Via Manzoni, Milan's main shopping street, preparing for Wednesday's party celebrating the opening of Giorgio Armani's long-awaited new flagship store. Mr. Armani himself stood on the sidewalk at 10 a.m., tearing apart a window display.
The suede headboard was facing the wrong direction, he told his assistants in Italian. The folding screen was angled inelegantly. The silk pillows were stacked, not scattered. With seven assistants tailing him, and several more on alert inside, the designer -- dressed in rumpled trousers, suede loafers and a quilted silk jacket -- deconstructed the window. 
 It was a moment of ironic symmetry in Mr. Armani's long career. Four decades ago, his first job was as a window dresser. Now, at 66, he heads a company with $850 million in reported annual sales, the most profitable fashion business in Italy. In many senses, Mr. Armani is the proprietor of a very big store.
The new Armani place itself is built on a Virgin Megastore scale. At 315,000 square feet, it features separate departments for the designer's jeans, his higher-end lines, an art-book shop, a florist, an Emporio Armani boutique, an Armani Home department, a branch of the restaurant Nobu and a Sony electronics section.
All told, it occupies three levels of a historic building by Enrico Griffini, a proponent of the Fascist architectural style. Mr. Armani spent $62.5 million for the building and another $10 million on a restoration, a year in the works, designed by Michael Gabbelini.
If any of this caused Mr. Armani to suffer from the newly fashionable Milanese complaint, stress -- "sono stressatissimo," is heard here almost as often as "ciao" -- you would not have guessed it from his demeanor throughout the day.
"He thrives on chaos," someone from within his organization said. "Chaos and control."
In the hours that followed the morning window critique, Mr. Armani showed his spring 2001 collection in several consecutive presentations to accommodate the hordes of buyers and fashion journalists, who are particularly alert to the fact that he has been preoccupied by a forthcoming 25-year-career retrospective at the Guggenheim Museum in New York, which opens later this month. He also presided over a front-row celebrity petting zoo that included Phil Collins; the mayor of Milan; a gum-chewing Sarah Ferguson, the Duchess of York, with her new boyfriend, Count Gadda della Gherardesca; a dour Robert DeNiro; and both the "new Sophia Loren," Maria Grazia Cucinotta, and the original Sophia Loren, still capable of putting imitators to shame. Then Mr. Armani slipped upstairs in his palazzo on Via Borgonuovo, casually changed into his trademark muscle T-shirt and returned to his store to serve as host for a four-hour party for "tutta Milano," all of Milan.
"People think of Pucci as psychedelic prints, but my father designed not just scarves but a universe," said Laudomia Pucci, who has the title image director for the House of Emilio Pucci, on a muggy morning this week. A few days earlier, a new store had opened on Via Montenapoleone, showcasing designs drawn from the archive of the late Florentine marquis with an amazing eye for design and women, and with a less predictable nose for business. Emilio Pucci was invariably described by a lap dog press as a Florentine of ancient lineage, an ace skier, a dashing prototype for jet set lady-killers.
It was less often remarked that he was an adroit designer (of capri pants, for one thing, adapted from island fishermen's clothes), an experimenter with fabrics (he pioneered stretch materials) and a man with an extensive and highly dubious Fascist past. Early this year, Ms. Pucci, the designer's only surviving child, entered into a deal with LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the luxury conglomerate, which acquired a 66-percent share in Pucci for the chance to resuscitate a neovintage brand and to revive the aristocratic dressmaker's design ethos.
"It's not a matter of Puccis are in and colors are in," Ms. Pucci said, explaining that the aim is to expand the Pucci customer base beyond the socialites who are prone to flashbacks of that kooky shift Mummy wore to cocktails at the Slocums' in Newport. "We can't look back all our lives to the 1960's."
Ms. Pucci, who came to fashion by way of degrees in politics and economics, added: "The most precious thing my father left to me was not his archive but his spirit.
"We intend to make this a durable fashion brand."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The design legacy of Emilio Pucci lives on in a new boutique in Milan. (Dan Lecca for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3631 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCES (54%); 

COUNTRY: ITALY (90%); UNITED STATES (66%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (66%); 

CITY: MILAN, ITALY (79%); 

COMPANY: SONY ELECTRONICS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MILAN (ITALY); ITALY (90%); UNITED STATES (66%); NEW YORK, USA (66%); MILAN, ITALY (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE RETAILERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (75%); CELEBRITIES (75%); MUSIC STORES (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); BOOKSTORES (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); WRITERS (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); 

PERSON: TREBAY, GUY; ARMANI, GIORGIO GIORGIO ARMANI (93%); SARAH FERGUSON (50%); ROBERT DE NIRO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000



129 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Putin Joins India in Vow On How to Use Atomic Plants

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER 

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Oct. 5

 BODY:
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia today took a high-profile tour of India's leading nuclear research center, where reactors and bombs are designed, and promised to work with India in developing peaceful uses for atomic energy while encouraging India to sign the nuclear nonproliferation and test ban treaties.
Mr. Putin's hour-and-a-half visit to the Bhabha Atomic Research Center in Bombay was the last stop on his four-day trip to India. It suggested how far India has come in regaining international acceptance since it conducted nuclear tests in May 1998. 
 Mr. Putin described the research center as a "temple of science and technology."
In a joint statement, Russia also struck a note of tolerance for India's decision to hold off on signing the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty.
"Russia welcomed India's voluntary moratorium on nuclear testing," the statement said, "and appreciated the Indian government's efforts to develop a broad national consensus" on the treaty.
Mr. Putin's trip here, the first by a Russian head of state in seven years, renewed ties between two countries whose friendly relations date from the cold war era, when the United States tilted heavily toward Pakistan, India's archrival.
Over the last few days, India and Russia signed military procurement deals, agreed to combat terrorism emanating from Afghanistan and declared that they would strengthen their cooperation on the peaceful uses of nuclear power.
Historically, most of India's military hardware has been of Russian origin, and Russia's role as India's chief military supplier was sustained on this visit.
The calculus is simple. Russia, which is in deep economic trouble, needs to sell its job-generating military products. And India, whose military was built with Soviet equipment, needs to buy them.
Looking to strengthen its conventional forces after a conflict last year with Pakistan in Kashmir, India announced that it would buy 310 T-90 tanks from Russia and produce 140 SU-30 fighter aircraft with Russian technology. Russia said it would give India a carrier, the Admiral Gorshkov, which will be refitted and modernized in Russia at Indian expense and equipped with Russian-made helicopters and other aircraft.
"Whether India likes it or not, India cannot shake off the Russian connection, as far as military hardware is concerned," said P. R. Chari, director of the Institute for Peace and Conflict Studies, a research organization here. "If 70 percent of your military equipment is of Russian or Soviet origin, you are symbiotically linked to them for spares and ancillary equipment."
India and Russia also announced a common front to combat terrorist violence committed by militant Islamic groups based in Afghanistan and said in their joint statement that the areas of Afghanistan ruled by the Taliban -- that is most of the country -- "had become the breeding ground for religious extremism and international terrorism."
Neither country suggested offering military aid to the opposition forces that are fighting the Taliban. Defense experts here said Russia and India could improve sharing their intelligence and work with other major powers, including the United States and China, to bring greater diplomatic pressure on the Taliban.
In his speech on Wednesday to Parliament, Mr. Putin said the same groups, even the same individuals, were plotting terrorist acts "from the Philippines to Kosovo, including Kashmir, Afghanistan and Russia's northern Caucasus."
Russia and India also offered each other support in their struggles with internal unrest, Russia's in Chechnya and India's in Kashmir, which India and Pakistan have been fighting over for more than 50 years. Both conflicts are being fueled by Islamic militancy.
The two countries offered the least detail about the agreement to enhance their cooperation on nuclear energy.
A spokesman for the Indian External Affairs Ministry, Raminder Singh Jassal, said the memorandum of understanding on nuclear power would not be made public and offered no reason for the secrecy.
"In what form the cooperation will develop, it's difficult to anticipate," Mr. Jassal said. "Russia is already collaborating with India in the construction of a 2,000-megawatt nuclear power station in Tamil Nadu."
The United States does not share nuclear power technology with India, because of American laws that require receiving countries to consent to international inspections of all nuclear sites, a rule that India refuses to obey.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (79%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (78%); MUMBAI, INDIA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; RUSSIA; INDIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KASHMIR (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (78%); MUMBAI, INDIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; INDIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); TALIBAN (78%); TERRORISM (78%); COLD WAR (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); RELIGION (69%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (65%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (65%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (65%); HELICOPTERS (61%); 

PERSON: DUGGER, CELIA W; PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES) VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000



130 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: Alcoa Expects Weaker Demand

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, Oct. 5

 BODY:
Alcoa Inc., the world's biggest aluminum maker, posted a 42 percent increase in third-quarter profit today but said that it expected fourth-quarter results to be hurt by higher energy costs and weaker demand from the transportation and construction industries.
Alcoa said that net income for the third quarter rose to $368 million, or 42 cents a share, compared with $259 million, or 35 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Sales rose 55 percent, to $6.3 billion from $4.05 billion, mainly because of acquisitions. 
 The Aluminum Company of America, based in Pittsburgh, lowered its third-quarter forecast two weeks ago, saying sales in the building and transportation industries and higher energy prices were eroding profit. The results matched revised Wall Street estimates, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. Alcoa had been expected to earn 50 cents a share before the revision. The average fourth-quarter estimate has dropped to 50 cents from 57 cents a month ago.
The company plans to cut $176 million in annual expenses in the fourth quarter, excluding the costs of higher natural gas and fuel prices.
"As long as the U.S. economy and global economy is in respectable shape, we think they'll work themselves out of this modest slump," said Arvind Sachdeva, a money manager at Dean Investment Associates in Dayton, Ohio.
Shares of Alcoa fell 13 cents, to $27.13. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (96%); AA (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (96%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DAYTON, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: ALCOA INC ALCOA INC (96%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALCOA INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (90%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); NATURAL GAS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000



131 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Fed's August Meeting Heard Concerns About Energy Costs

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve's policy-making committee was unanimous in its decision to leave interest rates unchanged in August, although concerns were expressed about rising energy costs, meeting minutes released today showed.
The Fed's action at the Aug. 22 meeting left the federal funds rate -- the interest that banks charge one another on overnight loans -- at 6.5 percent, the highest in nine years. 
 In explaining its decision, the Fed cited further evidence of a much-needed slowing of economic growth.
Statistical data and widespread anecdotal evidence "pointed to a noticeable slowing in the expansion of demand and economic activity," the minutes said.
The slowdown, the Fed said, was led by a moderation in consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of all economic activity, and in housing activity, another engine of the economy's robust growth.
On Tuesday, the Fed, for the third consecutive meeting, decided to leave rates steady, noting that the economy's growth was continuing to slow to a more sustainable pace. The minutes for that meeting will be released next month.
Since June 1999, the Fed has increased interest rates six times to slow economic growth and keep inflation under control.
At the August meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee, which includes Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, voted 10 to 0 to leave the funds rate unchanged. Policy makers also signaled -- as they did again on Tuesday -- that additional rate increases could occur down the road should inflation flare up.
Though they did not mention it in their public statement released after the Aug. 22 meeting, the policy makers cited "the potential for persistently higher energy prices to affect longer-run inflation expectations," the minutes said.
Nearly two months later, at Tuesday's meeting, Fed policy makers specifically said that rising energy prices posed the risk of "raising inflation expectations" in coming months.
At Tuesday's meeting, they cited that fear and oft-mentioned concerns that the nation's tight labor market could worsen inflation as reasons for continuing to hold the door open to more rate increases in the future. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (68%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); STATISTICS (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (65%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000



132 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES;
In Something of a Surprise, Europeans Raise Rates Early

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: PARIS, Oct. 5

 BODY:
Treading a thin line between the risks of higher inflation and stifled growth, the European Central Bank made a surprise decision today to increase interest rates, reflecting its concern over rising prices caused by the weak euro and expensive oil.
The quarter-point increase represented the seventh time this year that the central bank had raised rates. It moved the same day that the Bank of England decided to hold British rates steady and two days after the Federal Reserve left American interest rates unchanged while noting it was still concerned about a risk of inflation. 
 Many economists had expected the European Central Bank to take no action. But after its meeting today, the bank's president, Wim Duisenberg, made clear that rising prices were primary on its agenda. Rate increases made by the bank, he said, "continue to aim at ensuring that upward pressure on consumer prices stemming from oil prices and the foreign exchange rate of the euro do not translate into more permanent inflationary tendencies."
The move came less than two weeks after the European Central Bank led a coordinated purchase of euros on the foreign exchange markets with the help of Britain, the United States and Japan to strengthen the currency, down more than 25 percent against the dollar since its introduction in January 1999.
Apparently seeking to keep the currency markets on guard, though, Mr. Duisenberg indicated today that further surprise interventions on behalf of the euro were possible. He said that the decision to raise rates today was consistent with the central bank purchases of euros on Sept. 22 and that the European bank would continue to closely monitor the currency's value and act "as appropriate."
But if today's move was supposed to build confidence in the euro, the effect was short-lived. The currency rose briefly against the dollar on the news, reaching 87.86 cents, then fell back late in the day in Europe to 87.43 and settled in New York at 86.92 cents, down from 87.45 cents on Wednesday.
Most indicators in recent weeks suggest that the pace of economic growth in the 11 European nations that adopted the euro may have reached a peak in the second quarter of the year. Higher oil prices, and protests including work stoppages at companies relying on oil, contributed to the shift in sentiment from a fairly upbeat mood that had prevailed until recently.
Many economists now expect European growth to slow to perhaps 3.2 percent in the second half of the year, against 3.8 percent in the first six months.
But Mr. Duisenberg was at pains to insist that the bank's action today would not result in a slowing of the economy. "On the contrary," he said, "we believe this rate hike and this monetary policy stance create the best conditions for the robust growth which is going on." Business expansion in Europe, he said, had reached "cruising altitude."
At the same time, inflation by most standards has remained subdued. The underlying rate of inflation, excluding food and energy costs, is modest -- at about 1.3 percent. Still, Mr. Duisenberg stressed that in the central bank's view, today's move put interest rates at an appropriate level to combat price pressures.
The bank's governing council increased its benchmark -- the minimum rate for two-week loans to commercial banks sometimes known as the repurchase rate -- by a quarter-point to 4.75 percent. That narrowed the gap between the European benchmark rate and that of the Federal Reserve to 1.75 percentage points, from 2.5 percentage points in January.
Many economists said they had expected the bank to raise rates in the last three months of the year, though some expressed surprise that the move came as early as it did. "We expected an increase in the last quarter, but not quite so soon," said Ulrich Ramm, chief economist at Commerzbank in Frankfurt.
Mr. Ramm said the increase seemed part of a sustained operation by the central bank to deal with the problem of inflation as a threat to sustained growth both by dampening the pace of economic expansion and supporting the value of the euro against the dollar. That could help relieve inflationary pressures that result from European purchases of commodities like crude oil that are priced globally in dollars.
Mr. Ramm said the move "did not primarily have the euro as its cause, but because of the euro's weakness and its effect on prices."
Yet he and other economists said the bank was walking a thin line, seeking also to avoid slowing growth and the creation of jobs. European unemployment, though still high by American standards, has recently declined for the first time since the early 90's as a result of the Continent's economic upswing.
J. Paul Horne, a senior economist at Salomon Smith Barney in London, warned that "slowing the economy and job growth would be the kiss of death for the euro."
Public sentiment on the currency has recently been mixed, notably since last week's referendum in which Danes rejected an adoption of the euro by their country.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Europe's central bank chief, Wim Duisenberg, discussed the quarter-point rise in Frankfurt yesterday. (Associated Press)
 
Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since April 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK OF ENGLAND (57%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EURO (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRENDS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); STRIKES (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN WIM DUISENBERG (76%); ULRICH RAMM (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000



133 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: SHOWDOWN IN YUGOSLAVIA: THE DIPLOMACY;
The Plan: He Steps Down, They Step Up, U.S. Lies Low

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5

 BODY:
With televisions in the White House tuned to the images of protesters seizing the Parliament in Belgrade, President Clinton stepped into the Rose Garden today to encourage them on, at once offering American support while making it clear that the considerable American military presence in the region would not intervene.
"I think the people are trying to get their country back," Mr. Clinton said, just as it was becoming clear that the security forces would stand back as protesters took over government buildings and the central television broadcast center. 
 "The people of Serbia have made their opinion clear," Mr. Clinton said. "They did it when they voted peacefully and quietly, and now they're doing it in the streets."
The consensus among United States intelligence officials, senior military officers and diplomats interviewed today is that the era of Slobodan Milosevic was coming to an end.
But they also said that they were awaiting formal announcements from the security forces -- in particular the Yugoslav Army and the Interior Ministry's special police -- that they supported Vojislav Kostunica as the winner of the presidential election last month. That, the officials said, would be definitive.
Samuel R. Berger, the president's national security adviser, warned that the biggest risk was that Mr. Milosevic could marshal some part of the military in a violent effort to roll back the protests.
"This was a dramatic day, and it is difficult for me to imagine how Milosevic might reconstitute his power," Mr. Berger said in a telephone interview. "But we have to speak with a note of caution because he is capable of making a last stand. I don't think this is over yet. But it will be awfully hard for him to put it back in the bottle."
United States officials said that Mr. Milosevic is probably still in Serbia, seeking refuge, temporarily at least, in one of the Camp David-style retreats or command bunkers built outside of Belgrade.
These officials said they did not believe that Mr. Milosevic had fled today for Belarus or any other country that might offer him a safe haven from arrest on charges of alleged war crimes issued by the tribunal in The Hague.
"We don't know where he is, but it's over, he's done," said one four-star military officer who was apprised during the day about developments in Yugoslavia.
The overwhelming emotion in the White House was one of joy. Mr. Milosevic's violent efforts at maintaining a Serb-dominated Yugoslavia had predated Mr. Clinton's arrival in the White House, but now he was on the verge of being forced out on the last days of Mr. Clinton's watch. "If you can't get Middle East peace," one senior official said, "this may be the next best thing."
Several senior administration officials said that their first priority was ensuring that Mr. Milosevic left the country -- even if his destination put him out of reach of international law.
"Ultimately there should be some accountability," said an official who had participated in the decisions to intervene in Bosnia and then Kosovo. "But you also have to be practical and clear about the sequence here, and first things are first. The first thing is for him to step down, and for the transition to take place peacefully, and for him to get out of the country. And we are not about to get in the way of that."
The official ruled out forcing down Mr. Milosevic's plane, should he try to leave the country. They said they had no evidence that he was aboard one of three Antonov-26 military transport planes that took off from Belgrade this evening, Belgrade time.
Mr. Clinton's declaration today that he would keep American forces out of the conflict, officials said, was an effort to prevent the resurgence of anti-American sentiments that Mr. Milosevic might be able to stir in a last-ditch effort to hold on to power.
Mr. Clinton's comments today -- first at the White House, then in asides during a speech at Princeton University -- were directed therefore at encouraging the popular uprising while making it clear that the United States was keeping its distance.
He explicitly ruled out using the approximately 11,000 American troops in neighboring Bosnia and Kosovo, or the naval and Marine forces that have been conducting exercises nearby in the Adriatic Sea. "I don't believe it's an appropriate case for military intervention," Mr. Clinton said, "and I don't believe that the United States should say or do anything which would only strengthen Mr. Milosevic's hand."
But Washington has hardly been shy about offering incentives to the people of Serbia to take the kind of action that unfolded today. The administration has funneled money to voter education groups and the independent news media in Serbia. Mr. Clinton has often said that he is willing to lift economic sanctions against the country as soon as Mr. Milosevic is gone.
"The people of Serbia have spoken with their ballot, they have spoken on the streets," Mr. Clinton said at Princeton. "I hope the hour is near when their voices will be heard and we can welcome them to democracy, to Europe, to the world's community. And when they do, we will move as quickly as possible to lift the sanctions and build the kind of responsible partnership that the people there deserve."
That would allow American and other international aid money to pour in, and permit investors to rebuild the shattered country. While the process could take years, officials today were pointing to the speed with which Eastern European countries turned from dumping dictators to opening factories.
But they made no mention of the latest parallel, the popular ousting of President Suharto of Indonesia in 1998. While celebrated at the time, it led to two years of ever-worsening economic and political chaos.
Still, the uprising in Belgrade was celebrated from the White House to Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright's plane. Flying back from Middle East peace talks in Egypt today, she said, "The important point now is for Kostunica to be recognized as president."
She added: "I hope it turns out for them as it did in the rest of Central Europe and that they will be free from Communism. This is a fork for us in the road -- whether this will go in a peaceful way or not. I think the people of Serbia and Yugoslavia deserve a peaceful exit after a horrible two decades."
On the presidential campaign trail, both major party candidates expressed support for Mr. Milosevic's opponents in Yugoslavia.
Gov. George W. Bush, the Republican nominee, said, "Our country must work closely with our allies in Europe and the international community, including Russia, to pressure Mr. Milosevic to go."
Vice President Al Gore, the Democratic nominee, said: "We call upon Milosevic to get out of power. It will be taken from him if he does not, because the people of Serbia have spoken, and now they are rising up."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); NETHERLANDS (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BELARUS (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; BELGRADE (SERBIA); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); NETHERLANDS (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BELARUS (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ARMIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); RIOTS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); WAR CRIMES (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000



134 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Time Warner And EMI Halt Venture Plan

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: PARIS, Oct. 5

 BODY:
Faced with opposition from European antitrust regulators, Time Warner and the EMI Group of Britain withdrew their application today for a $20 billion joint venture to link their music businesses and said they would work to submit a revised plan.
The decision came on the day of a meeting of regulators in Brussels, at which the chief European antitrust official, Mario Monti, was expected to propose clearance for Time Warner's separate and much larger combination with America Online. 
 In a joint statement, EMI and Time Warner said they had informed the regulators that they were withdrawing their application for approval of the planned combination in recording, music publishing and online distribution. But they maintained that there was value for their shareholders in such a venture and said that they would explore concessions to allay the regulators' concerns "while preserving the economic merits of the proposed joint venture."
EMI's chairman, Eric Nicoli, said, "We continue to believe that a joint venture with Warner Music Group can create substantial value for our shareholders and benefit our artists, consumers and employees by bringing together two companies with complementary strengths."
The companies would now have the time, he added, "to reassess regulators' concerns and to pursue solutions simultaneously in Europe and the United States."
The proposed linking of Warner Music, the music division of Time Warner, and EMI into a joint venture controlled equally by both would have created a giant in the music business -- one with more than 2,500 musicians, including superstars like David Bowie and the Rolling Stones, and accounting for more than 2,000 new albums a year.
The deal, together with the proposed acquisition of Time Warner by AOL, was widely opposed by rivals in the arts and Internet businesses as a juggernaut, a company that could monopolize much entertainment as well as being the world's largest online information service.
Time Warner's president, Richard D. Parsons, said the two companies would "continue to explore ways to structure a combination that will make sense for the two companies and be acceptable" to European regulators.
European officials had opposed the planned combination largely because it would have reduced the number of global music companies to four from five -- also including the music division of the Sony Corporation, that of Bertelsmann of Germany, and the Universal Music unit of the Seagram Company, which has agreed to be acquired by the French conglomerate Vivendi.
It is unclear whether Time Warner and EMI can now find remedies that would satisfy both the regulators and their corporate strategies. Failure would throw into question much of the further consolidation that analysts have expected in the entertainment and Internet industries.
Antitrust regulators from the 15 European Union member nations met in Brussels today, but with the timely withdrawal of the planned combination by EMI and Time Warner, the main issue on the agenda remained Time Warner's deal with AOL.
Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for Mr. Monti, said a final decision on that would have to be made by Oct. 24 by the European Commission, the executive arm of the European Union, on the advice of the officials meeting today. The commission, though, will most likely reach a decision at one of two meetings called for Oct. 11 and Oct. 18. Mr. Monti was expected to make a proposal to the regulators, who act as an advisory body, on the Time Warner-AOL combination. Ms. Torres refused to say what form his recommendation would take.
To allay European concerns, Time Warner and America Online have given assurances that they would refrain from discriminating against rival Internet service providers in the online distribution of music for five years. In addition, AOL said it would end a music distribution alliance with Bertelsmann by buying the 50 percent of the venture it does not own.
People in Brussels close to the proceedings said that given the withdrawal of the Time Warner-EMI proposal and the remedies suggested by Time Warner and America Online, Mr. Monti was expected to recommend approval of that merger.
Time Warner's spokesman in New York, Edward Adler, said the chances of European approval looked good. "Discussions with the commission are nearing the end," he said by telephone. "We are confident of a successful conclusion."
That huge merger is being reviewed in the United States by the Federal Trade Commission and the Federal Communications Commission. And while European regulators have conferred on the deal with the F.T.C., it remains unclear what effect the European decisions will have on the deliberations in Washington. Concern in the United States, unlike that in Europe, has focused less on the possibility of collusion in music distribution than on dominance over cable television networks.
The move by Time Warner and EMI in effect starts the clock running anew in their dealings with the European regulators. In their efforts to allay concerns, the two companies initially agreed to shed their entire European distribution business, sell several record labels and reorganize their music publishing businesses.
In a last round of grappling with the regulators, Time Warner and EMI proposed the additional sale of two sizable assets, Virgin Records and the Chappell unit of Warner Chappell Music Publishing, according to people close to the discussions.
Earlier this week, it appeared that those concessions might have been sufficient for the European authorities to approve the joint venture. But people close to the discussions said they came too late. So faced with a rejection of the deal, Time Warner and EMI opted to withdraw the entire plan.
"We were very close, inches away," a person involved in the companies' strategy said, adding that the companies would now focus on re-examining the joint venture in light of the experience derived from the discussions with the regulators, in hope of ensuring success the second time around. A fresh proposal could come before January, that person said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SON (LSE) (62%); SNE (NYSE) (62%); 6758 (TSE) (62%); TWX (NYSE) (58%); AOL (NYSE) (57%); VIV (PAR) (51%); VIV (BIT) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (96%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (96%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (62%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (62%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS512230 MUSIC PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); BELGIUM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC; AMERICA ONLINE; EMI GROUP PLC; AOL TIME WARNER; EUROPEAN UNION EMI GROUP LTD (96%); SONY CORP (62%); SEAGRAM CO LTD (62%); TIME WARNER INC (58%); AOL INC (57%); WARNER MUSIC GROUP CORP (55%); VIVENDI (51%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIME WARNER INC; AMERICA ONLINE; EMI GROUP PLC; AOL TIME WARNER; EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (93%); BELGIUM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (73%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET JOINT VENTURES (92%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (92%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); MUSIC PUBLISHING (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); MUSIC (77%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); RECORD RELEASES (72%); DEREGULATION (67%); 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN; MONTI, MARIO RICHARD D PARSONS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000



135 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Curbs Sought On Abusive Tax Shelters

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
Leaders of the Senate Finance Committee proposed tough new laws yesterday to crack down on abusive corporate tax shelters and to impose hefty penalties on those who promote sham transactions to evade taxes.
The leaders, in a bipartisan move, called for tough new fines, which in some cases could not be waived, and for a drastic increase in penalties on the promoters of sham transactions. 
 The proposals show that the campaign by Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers to combat what he says is the most serious tax enforcement problem facing the government, costing it billions of dollars each year, is gaining currency among lawmakers.
Senator William V. Roth Jr., the Delaware Republican who is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and the panel's ranking Democrat, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, adopted most of the recommendations of Treasury tax policy officials and of leading tax lawyers.
The proposal would create a new class of tax shelters, called highly abusive devices, in which a strict penalty of 40 percent of the tax evaded would be imposed. Highly abusive devices are defined as those that rely on techniques that the courts have already found to be shams and which lack economic substance or a business purpose other than evading taxes.
The proposal would increase a fine on promoters who fail to give the Internal Revenue Service a list of customers for a tax shelter from $50 to 50 percent of the fees they collected. Many of the most egregious abuses uncovered in recent years were sold by promoters whose fee was one-third of the tax savings, according to Treasury and Internal Revenue Service officials.
The proposal also seeks to curb the use of dubious legal and accounting opinions on tax shelters and to let corporations escape penalties only if they had truly independent advice on the merits of a deal.
The I.R.S. can impose a 20 percent penalty on companies with failed tax shelters. To escape this penalty under the proposal, a company would need to have obtained in advance an opinion that it was more likely than not to prevail in an audit. The opinion would have to come from an expert with no financial or other ties to the promoters that would compromise his independence, and the tax shelter would have to be disclosed when a tax return was filed.
The 20 percent penalty would be required unless all of these conditions were met.
Peter L. Faber, a New York tax lawyer who has been in the forefront of calling on the government to rein in abusive tax shelters, said that over all he was very pleased but that the proposal left one significant issue open.
The proposal takes aim at tax shelters that lack economic substance without defining that term, which he said could result in legitimate deals being disallowed.
"What happens if a transaction produces an economic gain to a company of $10 million, and a tax deduction of $500 million?" Mr. Faber said. "Clearly the tax benefits outweigh the economic gain, but $10 million is a lot of money."
The idea of enacting new legislation to curb shelters has concerned large corporations. Harvey Golub, the chief executive of American Express, wrote to the Treasury Department last month that the main concern of the Business Roundtable, which represents the country's largest corporations, "is to ensure that any action aimed at abusive corporate tax shelters does not impede ordinary business transactions." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE LAWRENCE H STEIN (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (82%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (82%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; TAX EVASION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAX EVASION; FINES (PENALTIES); CORPORATIONS; TAX-SHELTERED INVESTMENTS TAX FRAUD (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); LAWYERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CORPORATE TAX (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); INCOME TAX (70%); ACCOUNTING (68%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY; SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H (SEC); ROTH, WILLIAM V JR (SEN); MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN) LAWRENCE SUMMERS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000



136 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Complicated Maneuvering on Utah Paper

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and FELICITY BARRINGER 

 BODY:
For decades The Salt Lake City Tribune has been the largest newspaper in Utah without a connection to the Mormon church. Now the news of talks between a Mormon-owned newspaper company and The Tribune's corporate parent have raised fears inside The Tribune that its independent voice could be eroded.
The dispute involves an unusual cast of characters, including AT&T -- which owns The Tribune through one of its subsidiaries -- as well as Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, who became tangentially involved when executives of the church-owned newspaper sought advice from Mr. Hatch, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, on the antitrust implications of their plans. 
 The Deseret News, an afternoon paper in Utah owned by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, had held discussions with AT&T about buying the telecommunications company's 50 percent stake in a joint venture that manages the advertising, printing and distribution operations for both papers, according to people close to the talks.
The acquisition talks have worried some executives of the Salt Lake Tribune Publishing Company, which controls the editorial operations of The Tribune under a contract with AT&T, because they believe that their church-owned rival may be looking for a backdoor way to exercise editorial control over material the Mormon Church leaders may consider offensive.
"They are finding any way they can to get control of the paper so they can get control of the media in the state," said Thomas Kearns McCarthey, a great-grandson of Thomas Kearns, who bought The Tribune in 1901. Mr. McCarthey is currently a director of the Salt Lake Tribune Publishing Company.
Executives of the Deseret News Publishing Company, however, strongly deny they have any ambition to control the content of their competitor; all they seek, they say, is a chance for The News to compete head to head with The Tribune for morning readers.
Whatever the point of the battle, economic or editorial, the battleground is the joint agency that runs the noneditorial functions of both newspapers.
The News denies that it is now seeking control of The Tribune, but it does not deny that it once explored seeking control of the joint operational venture. L. Glen Snarr, chairman and president of the Deseret News Publishing Company, issued a statement yesterday saying, "Contrary to some media reports, the Deseret News Publishing company is not seeking in any way to control, own or interfere with the voice and content of The Salt Lake Tribune."
He added: "The Deseret News supports having two newspapers under separate ownership serving the community. We are not attempting to change that situation."
An executive at AT&T, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the company hoped to resolve the situation soon and would probably sell its entire stake back to The Tribune's management if several financial issues could be agreed upon.
If a deal is not struck, The News could win control of the joint operational agreement, this person said, though it would ultimately lower the value of The Tribune's editorial operations.
A spokeswoman for AT&T said The Tribune is not a core asset, but declined to comment on a pending sale, citing AT&T's policy not to comment on speculation about mergers, acquisitions or divestitures.
While both papers have coexisted in their joint venture for decades, longtime trends have weakened afternoon newspapers like The News and have often bred tension between newspaper partners in joint operating agreements across the country. These agreements, which first cropped up seven decades ago and were legally sanctioned by Congress in 1970, allow competing newspapers to merge advertising, printing and distribution operations while maintaining separate editorial voices. The Justice Department still approves the creation and dissolution of joint operating agreements for newspapers.
As afternoon newspapers lose circulation, they have become unequal partners in joint operating agreements. Some, like The Seattle Times, shifted to morning publication; some ceased publication; and some bought out, closed and replaced their morning rivals. The News, with a circulation of 65,000 -- about half that of the morning Tribune's 135,000 -- wants to move to morning publication, its executives say, to compete on a level playing field. Changing to a morning publication is a main reason The News is interested in fully controlling the printing and distribution operations.
But Mr. Snarr of The News and B. Lloyd Poelman, its lawyer, confirmed that it has been in talks -- first with Tele-Communications Inc. and subsequently with AT&T after the telecommunications giant acquired control in 1997 -- about control of the assets of the Newspaper Agency Corporation, the agency that publishes the two newspapers jointly. "We've had some discussions, yes," Mr. Snarr said, "we were looking at purchase of some business assets without any effort to control the voice of The Tribune or control the editing." He said the assets in question "included the N.A.C.," referring to the Newspaper Agency Corporation, but that those talks ended in 1999.
In the course of the talks, Mr. Poelman said, he attended a meeting late in 1999 at which Utah's senior Republican senator, Mr. Hatch, was briefed on these discussions. Senator Hatch had no comment on the issue yesterday. Christopher Rosche, his communications director, said: "Senator Hatch is not involved in any negotiations if they are taking place. He was never been involved in any negotiations that may have been taking place."
His only involvement, Mr. Rosche said, was to reply to constituents seeking advice on antitrust provisions of their plans.
Mr. McCarthey, a non-Mormon, said he had economic as well as editorial interests in the fight. He and his siblings and cousins are owner-directors of the Salt Lake City Tribune Publishing Company, which has a contract to manage The Tribune's editorial operations and has an option to buy back control of the newspaper -- and its 50 percent share of the joint operating agreement -- in the summer of 2002. At current market values, he said, that would cost them $175 million. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (97%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SALT LAKE CITY TRIBUNE; AT&T CORP; DESERET NEWS AT&T INC (95%); DESERET NEWS PUBLISHING CO (85%); KEARNS-TRIBUNE LLC (55%); THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: SALT LAKE CITY TRIBUNE; AT&T CORP; DESERET NEWS THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH; UNITED STATES (97%); UTAH, USA (97%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; MORMONS (CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS); ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MORMONS & MORMONISM (94%); RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (88%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); JOINT VENTURES (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (53%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%); 

PERSON: SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS; BARRINGER, FELICITY; HATCH, ORRIN G (SEN) ORRIN HATCH (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000



137 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Liberating Yugoslavia

 BODY:
The long tyranny of Slobodan Milosevic was crumbling in Belgrade yesterday. In a tumultuous day reminiscent of the anti-Communist revolutions of 1989, the leading symbols of Yugoslav government power, like the Parliament and the state television station, fell to opposition demonstrators as police resistance melted away. Hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets and, refusing to be intimidated, demanded that the recent election of Vojislav Kostunica as president be respected. Their courage and determination impressed a watching world.
As the day ended, it seemed likely that Mr. Milosevic's tenure as Yugoslavia's leader would soon expire, perhaps in a matter of hours. Unless he can somehow assert command of the army and security forces for a desperate and doubtless bloody defense of his regime, his options will be few, including accepting an orderly transfer of authority to Mr. Kostunica or attempting to flee the country. After yesterday's decisive events, he can no longer count on support from the three main props of his 13-year rule: the security forces, the state-controlled media and the political and business cronies who have profited from his administration. Mr. Milosevic, who was indicted for war crimes by an international tribunal last year, should eventually be brought to trial. 
 It is appropriate that Mr. Milosevic's downfall is being engineered by his own people, not his many foreign foes. The Clinton administration and other Western governments are right to offer verbal encouragement but otherwise stand aside. President Clinton's promise to lift economic sanctions against Yugoslavia is a tangible incentive for change.
Russia has much to gain, and little to lose, by using its influence in Belgrade to speed Mr. Milosevic from power. President Vladimir Putin should abandon Moscow's neutrality on the outcome of the Yugoslav election and affirm Mr. Kostunica's victory.
Once they firmly gain power, Mr. Kostunica and his allies will confront the challenge of creating a democratic government and free society on the ruins of a collapsed tyranny. In some ways, they will have a simpler task than Belgrade's Central and East European neighbors faced in 1989. Yugoslavia already has a legitimately elected president and Parliament that can now assume legal authority. While a majority of the legislators elected last month ran as Milosevic allies, many may now transfer their loyalties to democratic government.
A crucial step will be to depoliticize the army and police, which have been agents of repression under Mr. Milosevic. Many commanders will have to be removed, and some should be brought to trial for their role in enforcing Mr. Milosevic's brutal policies. Encouragingly, important elements of the security forces stood aside as the protesters converged on Belgrade yesterday, indicating that their loyalty is to the Serbian people, not Mr. Milosevic.
The victory of democracy in Yugoslavia will have significance for all Europe. For nearly a decade, Mr. Milosevic's policies of military aggrandizement and ethnic persecution have blighted the Balkans and embroiled the United Nations and NATO. He brought war and suffering to Croatia, Bosnia and Kosovo, driving hundreds of thousands of people from their homes -- including many Serbs after these wars went badly for Belgrade and its allies. Once he has left office, Europe will at last be democratic and whole from the Atlantic to the borders of the former Soviet Union and beyond. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (95%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; BELGRADE (SERBIA); SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (95%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMIES (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (74%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (72%); INDICTMENTS (71%); WAR CRIMES (66%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (57%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); KOSTUNICA, VOJISLAV; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000



138 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

European Central Bank Increases Interest Rates
Treading a thin line between the risks of higher inflation and stifled growth, the European Central Bank made a surprise decision to increase interest rates, reflecting its concern over rising prices. 
 The quarter-point rise, to 4.75 percent, was the seventh increase made by the central bank this year. The bank moved the same day that the Bank of England decided to hold British rates steady and two days after the Federal Reserve left interest rates alone. Page C6.

South Korea's central bank raised interest rates, alarmed by four consecutive months of rising inflation. World Business, Section W.
 
Tougher Tax Shelter Rules Proposed
Leaders of the Senate Finance Committee proposed tough new laws to crack down on abusive corporate tax shelters and to impose hefty penalties on those who promote sham transactions to evade taxes. C6.
 
September Retail Sales Rose 3.3%
Sales at retail stores open at least a year rose 3.3 percent in September, but many stores were offering deeply discounted prices, which will probably cut into profits for the quarter and for the year. C6.
 
Murdoch Son Named to a Top Post
The News Corporation said that Lachlan Murdoch, the oldest son of the company's chairman, Rupert Murdoch, had been named deputy chief operating officer, the No. 3 position at the company. Lachlan Murdoch, 29, left, has long been his father's heir apparent and is expected to one day run the media giant, in which the Murdoch family holds 31 percent of the voting shares. C6.
 
Stocks Drop on Earnings Worries
Stocks slid, weighed down by concerns about earnings. The Nasdaq composite index fell 51 points, or 1.5 percent, to 3,472.10. The Dow Jones industrials dropped 59.56 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,724.92. The S.& P. 500 rose 1.96 points, to 1,436.28. C7.
 
Talks Raise Anxiety at Utah Paper
The Salt Lake City Tribune has long been the largest newspaper in Utah without a connection to the Mormon church. Now talks between a Mormon-owned company and The Tribune's parent have raised fears at The Tribune that its independent voice could be eroded. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,724.92 down 59.56
Nasdaq composite -- 3,472.10 down 51.00
10-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.85% down 0.03
The euro -- $0.08692 down 0.0053
The dollar -- 109.16 yen down 0.22
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows "Unemployment" September figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.
Expected: 4.1%
 
"Consumer Borrowing"
August figures due at 3 p.m. Eastern time.
Expected: +$10.0 billion

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (82%); NWS (ASX) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (92%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); NEWS CORP (82%); BANK OF ENGLAND (57%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UTAH, USA (92%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); INFLATION (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TAX FRAUD (74%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (74%); RETAILERS (73%); COMMON STOCK (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CORPORATE TAX (69%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (68%); RELIGION (66%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (61%); 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000



139 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Yugoslavia's Fate, and Europe's

BYLINE: By Robert D. Kaplan; Robert D. Kaplan, a senior fellow at the New America Foundation, is author of the forthcoming "Eastward to Tartary: Travels in the Balkans, the Middle East and the Caucasus."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Slobodan Milosevic's fall in Serbia can extinguish the last vestiges of the Communist Party in Eastern Europe that began with Red Army occupation in 1945. Though Tito's Yugoslavia broke with the Soviet Union in 1948, Yugoslav Communists in the Republic of Serbia did not succumb to the counterrevolutionary wave of 1989 that swept away other Communist regimes around them.
Instead, they adopted ethnic nationalism as a means to retain their villas, hunting lodges and other perquisites of power. Mr. Milosevic and his inner circle have been not only war criminals, extreme nationalists and mafiosi, but also apparatchiks with the bureaucratic knowhow to carry out lethal policies. 
 Mr. Milosevic's downfall could open many doors for the reconstruction of Serbia, and for Bosnia and Kosovo as well. Yet the real issue for the next administration in Washington will be less the former Yugoslavia than the integration of the entire Balkan peninsula, including Romania and Bulgaria, into Europe. For at the moment, there are two Europes, with the southeast part of the continent a bloc of unstable, impoverished countries where the political and economic trends are mostly bad, this week's revolt against Mr. Milosevic notwithstanding.
The victory of Vojislav Kostunica over Mr. Milosevic was another indication that the Dayton peace accords of 1995, despite their shortcomings, have worn extremely well. The collapse of the criminal regime of the late Franjo Tudjman in Croatia, if followed securely by Mr. Milosevic's in Serbia, would mean that Zagreb and Belgrade are no longer the axes for troublemaking in Bosnia that they were, making NATO's job there easier.
Croatia and Serbia will always seek to advance the interests of their ethnic compatriots in Bosnia, at the expense of each other and of the Bosnian Muslims, no matter who is in charge, democrat or autocrat. But if both are to be transformed into democracies, they must first consolidate their own power through the building of institutions, and help for that can come only from the West. And without Mr. Milosevic to help protect them, it might be only a matter of time before the indicted Bosnian Serb war criminals Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic are captured.
Similarly, while the traditional enmity between Serbs and Albanians in Kosovo will not dissolve and could even escalate as ethnic Albanians continue to consolidate their own power and criminal networks, at least a democratic Yugoslavia would no longer be the instigator of trouble for NATO in Kosovo to the degree that it has been. NATO has truly become an imperial overlord in the former Yugoslavia, given that Russia's historic power in the Balkans has waned.
But the former Yugoslavia is only part of the troubled Balkans. The widening gulf between Central Europe and the Balkans is strikingly manifested by the different paces of development of Romania (which, with 23 million people, has a larger population than all of the former Yugoslav republics together) and its Central European neighbor to the northwest, Hungary.
Since the reunification of Germany 10 years ago this week, foreign investment in Hungary has been six times that in Romania, despite the fact that Romania's population is more than twice Hungary's. Hungary's average monthly wage is more than twice Romania's. Apart from a few city centers, Romania is a sea of poverty, unemployment, obsolete factories and subsistence agriculture.
Romania's first real democratic president since the early 20th century, Emil Constantinescu, is departing after four years in office with disappointing attempts at reform. In the November elections, the ex-Communists are favored to win. Unlike the former Communists who returned to power democratically in Poland, those in Romania are unreformed.
In Bulgaria the situation is equally bleak. Unemployment, corruption and the paucity of development are so severe that, according to a recent poll, only 4 percent expect their lives to improve; 67 percent of the population say they are living worse than before the Berlin Wall collapsed.
Since 1989, the economies of the Catholic and Protestant countries of Poland, Hungary, Slovenia and the Czech Republic have all grown faster, or at least have been less stagnant, than those of Orthodox Romania, Bulgaria and Macedonia, and largely Muslim Albania. The Balkans were always the poorest part of Europe, but never more so than now.
After the NATO air war against Serbia in 1999, in which Romania and Bulgaria showed themselves to be loyal allies of the West, providing military bases and rights to fly over their territory, hopes ran high in those countries that generous aid would be forthcoming. People there say they have been bitterly disappointed.
An end to the Milosevic era could bring new hope in the Balkans. Mr. Milosevic failed not only as the result of his own miscalculations and the desire among Serbs for a better life that could come only with a new regime, but because America's democratic ideals were backed up by Western military and economic pressure. The NATO air campaign, however ill-conceived it may have been, began a process that -- combined with economic sanctions and substantial Western aid to the Yugoslav opposition -- appears to have removed Serbia from the category of rogue states.
President Clinton and Secretary of State Madeleine Albright deserve credit for applying the realist principle that projecting power is a prerequisite for the spread of one's values. In the 1930's, it was the Nazis who were applying military pressure and supporting local political parties in the Balkans with money, intelligence, printing presses and other aid. Not surprisingly, fascist ideals were then ascendant.
We should not delude ourselves that the spread of open societies in the Balkans and elsewhere is necessarily a natural development: it is a direct result of the expansion of American imperial authority -- albeit soft and undeclared -- which local populations now see as their self-interest to get along with.
Of course, the world is too vast and its problems too complicated for it to be stabilized by American authority, but the Balkans, contiguous to NATO-led Europe, are a natural area for our expansion. It will be the job of the next administration to expand NATO to the Black Sea and prevent the Balkans from permanently rejoining the Middle East. The fall of Europe's last Communist dictator would offer an unprecedented opportunity, but not a solution to the current division of Europe.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Natasha Tibbott)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); EUROPE (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ROMANIA (93%); CROATIA (93%); ALBANIA (92%); BULGARIA (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; BALKAN STATES; ROMANIA; BULGARIA; EUROPE; SERBIA (99%); EUROPE (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ROMANIA (93%); CROATIA (93%); ALBANIA (92%); BULGARIA (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-YUGOSLAVIA POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (75%); WAR CRIMES (75%); TRENDS (73%); INDICTMENTS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: KAPLAN, ROBERT D; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (94%); JOSIP BROZ TITO (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000



140 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 8135 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: The Vice-Presidential Debate;
Excerpts From the Debate Between the Vice-Presidential Candidates

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the vice-presidential debate last night in Danville, Ky., between Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut and Dick Cheney, as recorded by The New York Times. The moderator was Bernard Shaw of CNN.
 
The Projected Budget Surplus
MR. SHAW Senator, few hard-working Americans would base their well-being on bonuses they hope to get five or 10 years from now. Why do you and you, Secretary Cheney, predict surpluses you cannot possibly guarantee to pay for your proposed programs? 
 MR. LIEBERMAN I'm going to explain tonight how we're going to do all this and remain fiscally responsible. Let me briefly get to your question. . . . We're not spending anymore than is projected by the experts. In fact, unlike our opponents, we're setting aside $300 billion in a reserve fund just in case those projections the nonpartisan experts make are not quite right. We understand that balancing the budget --
MR. SHAW Your time is up, Senator.
MR. LIEBERMAN -- keeping America out of debt is the way to keep interest rates down and the economy growing.
MR. SHAW Secretary Cheney. . . .
MR. CHENEY I think it's an extraordinarily important decision we're going to make on Nov. 7. We're really going to choose between what I consider to be an old way of governing ourselves, of high levels of spending, high taxes, an ever more intrusive bureaucracy, or a new course, a new era if you will, and Governor Bush and I want to offer that new course of action.
With respect to the surplus, Bernie, we've got to make some kind of forecast. We can't make 12-month decisions in this business. We're talking about the kinds of fundamental changes in programs and government that are going to affect people's lives for the next 25 or 30 years. And while it may be a little risky in some respects from an economic standpoint to try to forecast surpluses, I think it's -- you have to make some planning assumption on which you proceed.
We care a great deal about the issues that are at stake here, and one of the difficulties we have, frankly, is that for the last eight years we've ignored a lot of these problems. We haven't moved aggressively on Social Security. We haven't moved, for example, on Medicare. There are important issues out there that need to be resolved, and it's important for us to get on with our business. And that's what Governor Bush and I want to do.
 
Public Education
MR. SHAW You alluded to problems. There's no magic bullet, Secretary Cheney, in this question to you, no magic bullets to solve the problems of public education, but what's the next best solution?
MR. CHENEY Well, I think public education is the solution. Our desire is to find ways to reform our educational system, to return it to its former glory. I'm a product of public schools, my family, my wife and daughters all went to public schools. We believe very much in the -- in the public school system.
But if you look at where we are from the standpoint of the nation, recent exams, for example, the National Assessment of Education Progress, independent nonpartisan testing service shows that there's been no progress on reading scores in the last eight years, almost no progress on math. The achievement gap between minority and nonminority students is as big as it's ever been.
We've had a significant increase in spending for education nationwide but it's produced almost no positive results. That's really unacceptable from our standpoint because if you look at it and think about it we now have in our most disadvantaged communities nearly 70 percent of our fourth graders can't read at basic level. We've graduated 15 million kids from high school in the last 15 years who can't read at basic level. They are permanently sentenced to a lifetime of failure.
And what we want to do, what Governor Bush and I want to do, is to change that. We think we know how to do it. Governor Bush has done it in Texas. We want to emphasize local control so that the people here in Danville, Ky., decide what's best for their kids. We want to insist on high standards. One of the worst things we can do is fail to establish high standards, in effect to say to a youngster because of ethnic background or their income level, we don't have the same kind of expectations from you that we have for everybody else. And we want accountability. We have to test every child every year to know whether or not we're making progress with respect to achieving those goals and objectives.
So we think it's extraordinarily important. This is probably the single most important issue in this campaign. Governor Bush has made it clear that when he's elected this will be his No. 1 priority as a legislative major to submit to the Congress.
MR. SHAW Senator.
MR. LIEBERMAN Bernie, Al Gore and I are committed to making America's public schools the best in the world. And I disagree with what my opponent has said. A lot of progress has been made in recent years. Average testing scores are up and a lot of extraordinary work is being done by tens of thousands of parents and teachers and administrators all around America. But there's more to be done. And if you'll allow me, I want to go back to your last question because it leads to this question. I think both of us agree that, leaving aside the Social Security and Medicare surpluses, there's $1.8 trillion in surplus available to spend over the next 10 years. As I said before, we're being fiscally responsible about it. We're taking $300 billion off the top to put into reserve fund. The rest of it, we're going to use for middle class tax cuts and investments in programs like education.
Now, there's a big difference here between these two tickets. Our opponents are going to spend $1.6 trillion of the $1.8 trillion surplus projected on that big tax cut that Al Gore talked about the other night so effectively. We're saving money to invest in education. You cannot reform education and improve it in this country without spending some money. Al Gore and I have committed $170 billion for that purpose: to recruit 100,000 new teachers, to reduce the size of classrooms, to help local school districts build new buildings so our children are not learning in crumbling classrooms.
And we're not just going to stop at high school. We're going to go on and give the middle class the ability to deduct up to $10,000 a year in the cost of college tuition. Now, that's a tremendous life-saving change, which will help people carry on their education and allow them to develop the kinds of skills that will help them succeed in the high-tech economy of today. . . .
 
The Gender Gap in Income
MR. SHAW Time. The next question goes to you. Gentlemen, this is the 21st century. Yet on average an American working woman in our great nation earns 75 cents for each dollar earned by a working male. What do you males propose to do about it.
MR. LIEBERMAN Well, it's a good and an important question. Obviously in our time, fortunately, great advances have been made by women achieving the kind of equality that they were too long denied. But, Bernie, your question is absolutely right. Women, actually the number I have is: receive 72 cents for every dollar a man receives in a comparable job. But Al Gore and I have issued an economic plan in which we've stated specific goals for the future. And one of those goals is to eliminate the pay gap between men and women. It's unfair and it's unacceptable. And the first way we will do that is by supporting the equal pay act which has been proposed in Congress, which gives women the right to file legal actions against employers who are not treating them fairly and not paying them equally. Secondly, we're going to do everything we can using governmental support of business agencies such as the Small Business Administration to help women business owners have an opportunity to invest and begin businesses and make larger incomes themselves. And there are other civil rights and human rights laws that I think can come to play here.
So, bottom line, this is an unfair and unacceptable situation. And even though as the economy has risen in the last eight years, America's women have risen with it and received more income, until women are receiving the same amount of pay for the same job they're doing as a man receives, we've not achieved genuine equality in this country. And Al Gore and I are committed to closing that gap and achieving that equality.
You know, in so many families, women are a significant bread earner or the only bread earner. So this, this cause affects not only the women, but families and the children as well.
MR. SHAW Mr. Secretary.
MR. CHENEY Well, Bernie, I certainly share the view that we ought to have equal pay for equal work regardless of someone's gender and we've made major progress in recent years. I think we've still got a ways to go.
But I also think it's not just about the differential with respect to women. If you look, for example, at our opponent's tax proposal, they discriminate between stay-at-home moms with children that they take care of themselves and those who go to work or who, in fact, have their kids taken care of outside the home. You, in effect, as a stay-at-home mom get no tax advantage under the Gore tax plan as contrasted with the Bush proposal which, in fact, provides tax relief for absolutely everybody who pays taxes. And it's important to understand that the things that we're trying to change and the things that we're trying to address in the course of the campaign and what our agenda is for the future, our plans are for the future, focus very much upon giving as much control as we can to individual Americans, be they men or women, be they single or married, as much control as possible over their own lives, especially in the area of taxation. We want to make certain that the American people have the ability to keep more of what they earn and then they get to decide how to spend it.
The proposal we have from -- from Al Gore, basically, doesn't do that. It, in effect, lays out some 29 separate tax credits, and if you live your life the way they want you to live your life, if you do, in fact, behave in a certain way, then you qualify for a tax credit and at that point you get some relief. Bottom line, though, is 50 million American taxpayers out there get no advantages at all out of the Gore tax proposal, whereas under the Bush plan everybody who pays taxes will in fact get tax relief. . . .
MR. LIEBERMAN This is an important difference between us and I want to try to clarify briefly if I can.
The first thing is that, in fact, the tax relief program that Al Gore and I have proposed, one of those many tax credits for the middle class that Dick just referred to includes a $500 tax credit for stay-at-home moms. Just as a way of saying that we understand that you are performing a service for our society, we want you to have that tax credit.
Second, the number of 50 million Americans not benefiting from our tax cut program is absolutely wrong. It's an estimate done on an earlier form of our tax cut program and it's just plain wrong. And secondly, although Governor Bush says that his tax cut program, large as it is, gives a tax cut to everybody as the newspapers indicated earlier this week, the Joint Committee on Taxation, again a nonpartisan group in Congress, has said that 27 million Americans don't get what the governor said they would in their tax cut program.
Again, Al Gore and I want to live within our means. We're not going to give it all away in one big tax cut and certainly not to the top one percent of the public that doesn't need it now.
So we're focusing our tax cuts on the middle class in the areas where they tell us they need it. Tax credits for better and more expensive child care, tax credits for middle-class families that don't have health insurance from their employers, the tax deduction I talked about earlier, very exciting deduction. For up to $10,000 a year in the cost of a college tuition, a $3,000 tax credit for the cost -- well actually, for a family member who stays home with a parent or grandparent who's ill. And a very exciting tax credit program that I hope I'll have a chance to talk about later, Bernie, that encourages savings by people early in life, and anytime in life, by having the federal government match savings for the 75 million Americans who make $100,000 or less up to $2,000 a year. . . .
MR. CHENEY Bernie, you had to be a C.P.A. to understand what he just said. The fact of the matter is that that plan is so complex that an ordinary American is never going to be able to figure out what they even qualify for. And it is a classic example of wanting to have a program, in this case a tax program, that will in fact, direct people to live their lives in certain ways, rather than empowering them to make decisions for themselves. It is a big difference between us. They like tax credits. We like tax reform and tax cuts.
 
Abortion Pill
MR. SHAW Mr. Secretary, this question is for you.
Would you support the effort of House Republicans who want legislation to restrict distribution of the abortion drug RU486?
MR. CHENEY Bernie, the abortion issue is a very tough one, without question, and a very important one. And, Governor Bush and I have emphasized that while we clearly are both pro-life, that's what we believe, that we want to look for ways to try to reduce the incidence of abortion in our society. Many on the pro-choice side have said exactly the same thing. Even Bill Clinton, who's been a supporter of abortion rights, has advocated reducing abortion to make it as rare as possible. With respect to the question of RU486, we believe that of course that it's recently been approved by the F.D.A. That really was a question of whether or not it was safe to be used by women. They didn't address the, sort of the question of whether or not there should or should not be abortion in the society so much as evaluate that particular drug.
What we'd like to be able to do is to look for ways to reach across the divide between the two points of view and find things that we can do together to reduce the incidence of abortion, we're thinking of such things as promoting adoption as an alternative, encouraging parental notification and we also think banning the horrific practice of partial-birth abortions is an area where there could be agreement. Congress has twice passed, by overwhelming margins, a significant number of votes from both parties, the ban on partial birth abortions. Twice it's been vetoed by Bill Clinton and Al Gore and we would hope that eventually they would recognize that that's not a good position for them to be in. With respect to the RU486 proposal, at this stage, I haven't looked in particular at that particular piece of legislation. Governor Bush made it clear the other night that he did not anticipate that he would be able to go in and direct the F.D.A. to reverse course on that particular issue, primarily because as I say the decision they made was on the efficacy of the drug, not the question of whether or not we supported abortion.
MR. LIEBERMAN Bernie, this is a very important question and it is one on which these two tickets have dramatically different points of view. My answer is no, I would not support legislation that is being introduced in Congress to override the Food and Drug Administration decision on RU-486. The administration, F.D.A., worked 12 years on this serious problem. They made a judgment based on what was good for women's health. A doctor has to prescribe and care for a woman using it. I think it's a decision that we ought to let stand because it was made by experts.
But let me say more generally that the significant difference here on this issue is that Al Gore and I respect and will protect a woman's right to choose. And our opponents will not. We know that this is a difficult personal, moral, medical issue, but that is exactly why it ought to be left under our law to a woman, her doctor and her God. Now, one area in which we agree, Al Gore and I, is that we believe that the government ought to do everything it can to reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies, and therefore the number of abortions.
And incidentally, here there is good news to report. The number of abortions is actually down in America over the last eight years. In fact, over the last eight years the number of teenage pregnancies has dropped 20 percent. And the reason it has is that there are good programs out there that Al Gore and I will continue to support, such as family planning and programs that encourage abstinence. But when the health of a woman is involved, I think the government has to be respectful.
I supported, in fact, a bill in the Senate that would have prohibited late-term abortions except in cases where the health or life of the mother was involved. I did not support the so-called partial-birth abortion bill because it would have prohibited abortion, that form of abortion, at any stage of the pregnancy regardless of the effect on the health and life of the woman, and that's unacceptable.
 
The Situation in Yugoslavia
MR. SHAW This question is for you, Senator. If Yugoslavia's Slobodan Milosevic prevails, notwithstanding the election results, would you support his overthrow?
MR. LIEBERMAN Well, there is good news from Belgrade today, Bernie, as you know. But it's unconfirmed. The encouraging news is that the state news agency is reporting that Mr. Kostunica is the president-elect. And there are some press reports, but they're unconfirmed, that Milosevic has actually left Belgrade. Now, that is a very happy ending to a terrible story. And it's the end of a reign of terror.
If that is not confirmed and does not happen, then I think the United States, with its European allies, ought to do everything we can to encourage the people of Serbia to do exactly what they've been doing over the last few days, to rise up and end this reign of terror by Milosevic and bring themselves back into the family of nations where they will be welcomed by the United States and others.
You know, I'm very proud, on this night, as it appears that Milosevic is about to or has fallen, of the leadership role the United States played in -- in the effort to stop his aggression and genocide in Bosnia and Kosovo.
I know our opponents have said that they thought that was an overreaching. It wasn't. It was a matter of principle and America's national interest and values. And the fact is that we stopped the aggression; we stopped the genocide. And therefore strengthened our relationship with our European allies in NATO and, in fact, made the United States more respected and trusted by our allies and more feared by our enemies. I think that Vice President Gore played a critical role, passionate, purposive role, in leading the administration, along with Republican supporters like Bob Dole and John McCain, to do the right thing in the Balkans. And, hopefully, tonight we are seeing the final results of that bold and brave effort.
MR. SHAW Secretary Cheney.
MR. CHENEY Well, I noted, Bernie, that like, Joe, certainly I'm pleased to see what's happened in Yugoslavia today. I hope it marks the end of Milosevic. I think probably more than anything else it's a victory for the Serbian people. They've taken to the streets to support their democracy, to support their vote. In some respects this is a continuation of a process that began 10 years ago all across Eastern Europe and has only now arrived in Serbia. We saw it Germany. We saw it in Romania. We saw it in Czechoslovakia as the people of Eastern Europe rose up and made their claim for freedom. And I think we all admire that.
I think with respect to how this process has been managed most recently, we want to do everything we can to support Mr. Milosevic's departure. Certainly, though, that would not involve committing U.S. troops. I do think it's noteworthy that there appears to be an effort under way to get the Russians involved. I noted the other night, for example, Tuesday night, in the debate in Boston, Governor Bush suggested exactly that, that we ought to try to get the Russians involved to exercise some leverage over the Serbians, and Al Gore pooh-poohed it. But now it's clear from the press that, in fact, that's exactly what they were doing and that Governor Bush was correct in his assessment and his recommendation.
He has supported the administration on Kosovo. He lobbied actively against passage of the Byrd-Warner provision which would have set a specific deadline, one he felt that was too soon for forcing U.S. troops out. So he's been supportive of the policy that -- that we've seen with respect to Yugoslavia and I think he deserves a lot of credit for that.
I'd go beyond that. I think this is an opportunity for the United States to test President Putin of Russia. That, in fact, now is the time when we ought to find out whether or not he is indeed committed to democracy, whether or not he's willing to support the forces of freedom and democracy diplomatically in the area there of Eastern Europe, and it's a test for him, in effect, of whether he represents the old guard in the Soviet Union.
One of the most important challenges we face as a nation is how we manage that process of integrating those 150 million Eastern Europeans into the security and economic framework of Europe.
 
Military Readiness
MR. SHAW Your question, Mr. Secretary. You and Governor Bush charge that the Clinton-Gore administration have presided over the deterioration and overextension of America's armed forces. Should U.S. military personnel be deployed as warriors or peacekeepers?
MR. CHENEY My preference is to deploy them as warriors. There may be occasion when it's appropriate to use them in a peacekeeping role, but I think that role ought to be limited. I think there ought to be a time limit on it. The reason we have a military is to be able to fight and win wars and to maintain it with sufficient strength so that would-be adversaries are deterred from ever launching a war in the first place.
I think that the administration has, in fact, in this area, failed in a major responsibility. We've seen a reduction in our forces, far beyond anything that was justified by the end of the cold war. The same time we've seen a rapid expansion of our commitments around the world as troops have been sent hither and yon.
Testimony just last week by the Joint Chiefs of Staff before the House Armed Services Committee that pointed out a lot of these problems, that the -- for example, Gen. Mike Ryan of the Air Force -- that with 40 percent fewer aircraft he's now undertaking three times as many deployments on a regular basis as he had to previously. So we're overcommitted and we're underresourced.
This has had some other unfortunate effects. I saw a letter, for example, the other day from a young captain stationed down in Fort Bragg, a graduate of West Point of '95, getting ready to get out of the service, because he's only allowed to train with his troops when fuel is available for the vehicles and, and only allowed to fire their weapons twice a year.
He's concerned that if he ever had to send them into combat it would mean lives lost. That is a legitimate concern, and this is a very important area and the fact the U.S. military is worse off today than it was eight years ago, a major responsibility for us in the future and a high priority for myself and Governor Bush will be to rebuild the U.S. military to give them the resources they need to do the job we ask them to do for us and to give them good leadership.
MR. SHAW Senator, you're shaking your head in disagreement.
MR. LIEBERMAN Well, I am, Bernie. And, most important, I want to assure the American people that the American military is the best-trained, best-equipped, most powerful force in the world and that Al Gore and I will do whatever it takes to keep them that way. It's not right, and it's not good for our military, to run them down, essentially, in the midst of a partisan political debate. The fact is that you've got to judge the military by what the military leaders say. And Secretary Bill Cohen, a good Republican, General Shelton, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, both will tell you that the American military is ready to meet any threat we may face in the world today. And the fact is, judging by its results from Desert Storm to the Balkans, Bosnia and Kosovo to the operations that are still being conducted to keep Saddam Hussein in the box in Iraq, the American military has performed brilliantly. In fact, this administration had turned around the drop in spending on the military that began in the mid-80's and went right through the Bush-Cheney administration and the early years of the Clinton administration. But now that's stopped. In fact, we passed the largest pay increase in a generation for our military. And the interesting fact here, in spite of the rhetoric that my opponent has just spoken, is that the -- reality is that if you look at our projected budgets for the next 10 years, Al Gore and I actually commit more than twice as much -- $100 billion -- in additional funding for our military than Governor Bush does. And their budget allows nothing additional for acquisition of new weapons systems. And that's something that the same general, Mike Ryan of the Air Force, and all the other chiefs of the services, will not be happy about because they need the new equipment, the new systems, that Al Gore and I are committed to giving them.
MR. CHENEY Bernie, this is a special interest of mine. I'd like a chance to elaborate further if I might.
The facts are dramatically different. I'm not attacking the military, Joe. I have enormous regard for the men and women of the U.S. military. I had the great privilege of working with them for the four years I was Secretary of Defense and no one has a higher regard than I do for them. But it's irresponsible to suggest that we should not have this debate in a presidential campaign, that we should somehow ignore what is a major, major concern. And if you have friends or relatives serving in the U.S. military you know there's a problem. If you look at the data that's available: 40 percent of our army helicopters that are not combat ready; combat-readiness level in the Air Force that's dropped from 85 percent to 65 percent; significant problems of retention. The important thing for us to remember is that we're a democracy and we're defended by volunteers.
Everybody out there tonight wearing the uniform, standing on guard to protect the United States is there because they volunteered to put on the uniform. And when we don't give them the spare parts they need to maintain their equipment, when we don't give our pilots the flying hours they need to maintain their proficiency, when we don't give them the kind of leadership that spells out what their mission is and lets them know why they're there and what they're doing, why they're putting their lives at risk, then we undermine that morale. That is an extraordinarily valuable trust. There is no more important responsibility for a president of the United States than his role as commander in chief and the obligation that he undertakes on behalf of all of us to decide when to send our young men and women to war. When we send them without the right kind of training, when we send them poorly equipped or with equipment that's old and broken down, we put their lives at risk. We will suffer more casualties in the next conflict if we don't look to those basic fundamental problems. . . .
MR. LIEBERMAN Bernie, I think it's very important to respond to this. Yes, of course, it's an important debate to have as part of this campaign but I don't want either the military to feel uneasy or the American people to feel insecure. And what I'm saying now I am basing on service, on the Senate Armed Services Committee talking to exactly the people Dick Cheney has mentioned, the Secretary of Defense, the Chiefs of Staff. I've visited our fighting forces around the world and I'm telling you that we are ready to meet any contingency that might arise.
The good news here and the interesting news is that we have met our recruitment targets in each of the services this year. In fact, in the areas where our opponents have said we are overextended, such as the Balkans, the soldiers there have the higher rate of re-enlistment than anywhere else in the service because they feel a sense of purpose, a sense of mission.
In fact, this administration has begun to transform the American military. To take it away from being a cold war force. To prepare it to meet the threats of the new generation of tomorrow, of weapons of mass destruction, of ballistic missiles, of terrorism, even of cyberwarfare.
And the fact is that Governor Bush recommended in his major policy statement on the military earlier this year that we skip the next generation of military equipment -- helicopters, submarines, tactical air-fighters, all the rest. That would really cripple our readiness, exactly the readiness that Dick Cheney is talking about.
Al Gore and I are committed to continuing this acquisition program, transforming the military. There's fewer people in uniform today but person to person -- person by person, unit by unit, this is the most powerful and effective military not only in the world today but in the history of the world. And again, Al Gore and I will do whatever is necessary to keep it that way.
Middle East Peace Prospects
MR. SHAW Senator Lieberman, this question to you. Once again in the Middle East peace talks on the one hand, deadly confrontations on the other and the flash point Jerusalem. And then there's Syria. Is United States policy what it should be?
MR. LIEBERMAN Yes, it is. It has truly pained me in the last week, Bernie, to watch the unrest and the death occurring in the Middle East between the Israelis and the Palestinians. So much work has been done by the people there with the support of this administration, so much progress has been made in the original Oslo Agreements between the Israelis and the Palestinians adopted in 1993 in the peace between Israel and Jordan thereafter.
I mean, America has a national strategic interest and a principled interest in peace in the Middle East. And Al Gore has played a critical role in advancing that process over the last eight years. What pains me as I watch the unrest in recent days between the Israelis and the Palestinians is that these two peoples have come, in some senses, generations forward, centuries forward in the last seven years. They are so close to a final peace agreement.
I hope and pray that the death and unrest in the last week will not create the kinds of scars that make it hard for them to go back to the peace table with American assistance, and achieve what I'm convinced the great majority of the Israeli and Palestinian people want, indeed people throughout the Middle East, which is peace.
Secretary Albright has been in Paris meeting with Prime Minister Barak and Chairman Arafat. I hope and pray that her mission is successful, that there is a cease-fire and the parties return to the peace table.
Now we've been on a very constructive course in the Middle East, played an unusual, unique role. And I am convinced that Al Gore and I, I commit that Al Gore and I will continue to do that. I hope I might, through my friendships in Israel and throughout the Arab world, play a unique role in bringing peace to this sacred region of the world.
MR. CHENEY Bernie, it has been a very, very difficult area to work in for a long time. Numerous administrations going back, certainly to World War II, have had to wrestle with the problem of what should happen to the Middle East. We made significant breakthroughs, I think, at the end of the Bush administration because of the Gulf War. In effect, we had joined together with Arab allies and done enormous damage to the Iraqi armed forces, and Iraq, at the time, was the biggest military threat to Israel. By virtue of the end of the cold war, the Soviets were no longer a factor. They used to fish in troubled waters whenever they had the opportunity in the Middle East. But with the end of the Soviet Union, the implosion, if you will, of the empire, that created a vacuum, if you will, and made it easier for us to operate there.
We were able to, I think, reassure both Arabs and Israelis that the United States would play a major role there, that we had the ability and the will to deploy forces to the region if we had to to engage in military operations to support our friends and oppose our foes. And of course we were able to convene the Madrid conference that in effect was the first time Arabs and Israelis sat down face to face and began this process of trying to move the peace process forward.
I think also a lot of credit goes to some great men like Yitzhak Rabin. His tragic passing was of major consequence, a great tragedy for everybody who cares about peace in the Middle East. He was a man who had the military stature to be able to confidently persuade the Israelis, I think, to take some risks for peace. I think Prime Minister Barak has tried the same thing. I hope that we can get this resolved as soon as possible. My guess is that the next administration is going to be the one that's going to have to come to grips with the current state of affairs there. I think it's very important that we have an administration where we have a president with firm leadership who has the kind of track record of dealing straight with people, of keeping his word so that friends and allies both respect us and our adversaries fear us.
 
Policy Toward Iraq
MR. SHAW This question is for you, Mr. Secretary. If Iraq's President Saddam Hussein were found to be developing weapons of mass destruction, Governor Bush has said he would "take him out." Would you agree with such a deadly policy?
MR. CHENEY We might have no other choice. We'll have to see if that happens. The thing about Iraq, of course, was at the end of the war we had pretty well decimated their military. We had put them back in a box, so to speak. We had a strong international coalition raid against them, effective economic sanctions and a very robust inspection regime that was in place. So that the inspection regime under U.N. auspices was able to do a good job of stripping out the capacity to build weapons of mass destruction -- the work that he'd been doing that had not been destroyed during the war on biological, chemical agents as well as a nuclear program. Unfortunately, now we find ourselves in a situation where that's started to fray on us, where the coalition now no longer is tied tightly together.
Recently the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain, two Gulf states, have reopened diplomatic relations with Baghdad. The Russians and the French now are flying commercial airliners back into Baghdad and sort of thumbing their nose, if you will, at the international sanctions regime. And of course the U.N. inspectors have been kicked out. And there's been absolutely no response.
So we're in a situation today where I think our posture vis-s-vis Iraq is weaker than it was at the end of the war. I think that's unfortunate. I also think it's unfortunate that we find ourselves in a position where we don't know for sure what might be transpiring inside Iraq.
I certainly hope he's not regenerating that kind of capability. But if he were, if in fact Saddam Hussein were taking steps to try to rebuild nuclear capability or weapons of mass destruction, you'd have to give very serious consideration to military action to stop that activity. I don't think you can afford to have a man like Saddam Hussein with nuclear weapons, say, in the Middle East.
MR. SHAW Senator.
MR. LIEBERMAN Bernie, it would, of course, be a very serious situation if we had evidence, credible evidence, that Saddam Hussein was developing weapons of mass destruction. But I must say I don't think a political campaign is the occasion to declare exactly what we would do in that case. I think that's a matter of such critical national security importance that it ought to be left to those commander in chief, the leaders of the military, the secretary of state to make that kind of decision without the heat of a political campaign.
The fact is that we will not enjoy real stability in the Middle East until Saddam Hussein is gone. The gulf war was a great victory. And incidentally, Al Gore and I were two of the ten Democrats in the Senate who crossed party lines to support President Bush and Secretary Cheney in that war, and we're both very proud that we did that.
But the war did not end with a total victory and Saddam Hussein remained there. And as a result we have had almost 10 years now of instability. We have continued to operate, almost all of this time, military action to enforce a no-fly zone. We have been struggling with Saddam about the inspectors. We ought to do, and we are doing everything we can, to get those inspectors back in there.
But in the end, there's not going to be peace until he goes. And that's why I was proud to co-sponsor the Iraq Liberation Act with Senator Trent Lott, why I have kept in touch with the indigenous Iraqi opposition broad based to Saddam Hussein. Vice President Gore met with them earlier this year. We are supporting them in their efforts and we will continue to support them until the Iraqi people rise up and do what the people of Serbia have done in the last few days, get rid of a despot. We will welcome you back into the family of nations where you belong.
 
Rising Oil Prices
MR. SHAW Senator Lieberman, this question is to you.
Many experts are forecasting continuing chaotic oil prices in the world market. Wholesale natural gas prices here in our country are leaping. Then there are coal and electricity. Have previous Republican and Democratic congresses and administrations, including this one, done their job to protect the American people?
MR. LIEBERMAN Not enough. But this administration and Vice President Gore and I have had both a long-term strategy to develop energy independence and a short-term strategy. In fact, if this administration had been given the amount of funding that it had requested from the Republican Congress, we'd be further along in the implementation of that long-term strategy which is aimed at developing alternative cleaner sources of energy aimed at giving tax credits to individuals and businesses to conserve and use energy more efficiently, aimed at a partnership for a new generation of vehicles with the American automobile industry which is making great progress and can produce a vehicle that can get 80 miles per gallon. We also have a short-term strategy and it's a deal with exactly the kind of ups and downs of energy prices and I know it was controversial. But Al Gore and I believed that it was important in the short term to reach into the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, take some of that oil that we have, put it in the market, show the big oil companies and the OPEC oil-producing countries that we've got some resources with which we can fight back. We're not just going to lay back and let them roll over our economy. And we did it also because gasoline prices were rising and home heating oil inventories were real low. And both of our tickets agree on LIHAP, Low Income Housing Assistance Program, but our opponents really offer no assistance to middle-class families who are hit by rising gas prices and a shortage of home heating oil. The fact is that since the reserve was opened the price of oil on world markets has dropped $6 a barrel. Now that's a good result and I'm proud of it.
MR. SHAW Mr. Secretary?
MR. CHENEY Bernie, this is an area where, again, I think Joe and I have fairly significant disagreements. My assessment is that there is no comprehensive energy policy today. That as a nation we are in trouble because the administration has not addressed these issues. We have the prospects of brownouts in California. We have a potential home heating oil crisis in the Northeast. We've got gasoline price rises various other places.
For years now the administration's talked about reducing our dependence on foreign sources of oil but they haven't done it. In fact, we've gone exactly in the opposite direction. We've got the lowest rate of domestic production of oil now in 46 years. You have to go back to 1954 to find a time when we produced as little oil as we do today.
Our imports are all-time record high. In the month of June we imported almost 12 million barrels a day. That means we're more subject to the wide fluctuations and swings in price.
We have other problems. We don't have refinery capacity. We haven't built a new refinery in this country for over 10 years. And the refineries are now operating at 96 or 97 percent capacity, which means even with more crude available they're probably not going to be able to do very much by way of producing additional home heating oil for this winter. We have a long-term, serious long-term problem with our growing independence on foreign sources of energy. That will always be the case but we ought to be able to shift the trend and begin to move it in the right direction.
We need to do a lot more about generating the capacity for power here at home. We need to get on with the business and we think we can do it and very safely in an environmentally sound manner.
We don't think that we ought to by into this false choice that somehow we cannot develop energy resources without being cautious with the environment. We can. We've got the technology to do it and we ought to do it.
We do support the low-income assistance program. We think that's very important so that senior citizens, for example, don't suffer this winter.
But we need to get on with the business of having a plan to develop our domestic energy resources and producing more supplies. And this administration hasn't produced them.
 
The Future of Social Security
MR. SHAW This question is for you, Senator. We all know Social Security is the backbone of the retirement system in our nation. Can either of you pledge, tonight, categorically, that no one will lose benefits under your plans?
MR. LIEBERMAN Ah, yes indeed. I can pledge to the American people categorically that no one will lose benefits under our plan for Social Security as far forward as 2054. And let me come back and say, Bernie, that Al Gore and I view Social Security as probably the best thing the government did in the second half of the last century. It has created a floor under which seniors cannot fall. And so many of them depend on it for their basic living, for their livelihood. It is critically important to protect it. That's why Al and I have committed to, to putting that Social Security surplus in a lock box, not touching it. And that's what allows us to keep Social Security solvent to 2054. . . .
MR. CHENEY You won't be surprised, Bernie, if I disagree with Joe's description of our program. The fact of the matter is the Social Security system's in trouble. It's been a fantastic program. It's been there for 65 years, it's provided benefits for -- for senior citizens over that period of time, for my parents. It means a great deal to -- to millions of Americans. And Governor Bush and I want to make absolutely certain that the first thing we do is guarantee the continuation of those payments, those benefits and keep those promises that were made.
But if you look down the road and if you're, say, 30 years old today, and I have two daughters about that age, they seriously question whether or not there'll be any system left for them, and that's because the demographics that are work out there, and it's almost an iron law, we know how many people there are, we know when they're going to reach retirement age, we know when that baby boom generation's coming along, we know how long people are likely to live after that.
That's going to drive the system into bankruptcy unless we reform it and deal with it.
The reform we would like to offer is to allow our young people to begin to take a portion of the payroll tax, 2 percent of it, and invest it in a personal retirement account. That does several things. First of all, it gives them a stake in the Social Security system, that becomes their property, they own it. They can pass it on to their kids if they want. They don't have that kind of equity in Social Security today.
Secondly, we can generate a higher return off that investment than you get in the existing system. Today, you get about a 2 percent return in your -- what you pay into Social Security. We can generate, we think, at least 6 percent. All the evidence shows at least three times what we're able to get now.
And long term, by generating a longer -- a bigger return, we'll put additional funds into the system that will help us survive that crunch that's otherwise going to hit in the future. . . .
 
Racial Profiling
MR. SHAW Dick Cheney, Joe Lieberman, you are black for this question. Imagine yourself an African-American. You become the target of racial profiling either while walking or driving. African-American Joseph Lieberman, what would you do about it?
MR. LIEBERMAN I'd be outraged. It is such an assault on the basic promise that America makes that the law will treat individuals as individuals regardless of their status. That is to say their race, their nationality, their gender, their sexual orientation, etc., etc. And the sad fact is that racial profiling occurs in this country.
I have a few African-American friends who've gone through this horror. And, you know, it makes me want to kind of hit the wall because it is such an assault on their humanity and their citizenship. And we can't tolerate it anymore.
That's why I've supported legislation in the first instance in Congress because it's the most we could get done to do hard studies to make the case of the extent to which racial profiling is occurring in our country.
But it's also why I'm so proud that Al Gore has said two things. First, we would issue, if we're fortunate enough to be elected, an executive order prohibiting racial profiling. And secondly, the first civil rights act legislation we would send to Congress would be a national ban on racial profiling. It is just wrong. It is un-American. And to think that in the 21st century this kind of nonsense is still going on, we've got to stop it.
And the only way to stop it is through the law. I mean the law, after all, is meant to express our values and our aspirations for our society. And our values are violently contradicted by the kind of racial profiling that I know exist.
And I just had a friend a while ago, Bernie, who works in the government, works at the White House, African American, stopped, surrounded by police for -- for no other cause that anyone can determine than -- than the color of his skin. That can't be in America anymore.
MR. SHAW Mr. Secretary.
MR. CHENEY Well, Bernie, I -- I'd like to answer your question to the best of my ability but I -- I don't think I can understand fully what it would be like. Try hard to put myself in that position and imagine what it'd been like, but, of course, I've always been part of the majority and never been part of a -- of a minority group. But it has to be a horrible experience. It's the -- the sense of anger and frustration and rage that would go with going with knowing that the only reason you were stopped, the only reason you were arrested was because of your color of your skin, would make me extraordinarily angry. And I'm not sure how I would respond.
I think that we have to recognize that while we've made enormous progress in the U.S. in racial relations and we have come a very long way, we still have a long way to go. That we still have not only the problems we're talking about here tonight in terms of the problems that you mentioned of profiling. But beyond that we still have achievement gap in education, income differentials, differences in life span.
We still have, I think, a society where we haven't done enough yet to live up to that standard that we'd all like to live up to, I think, in terms of equality of opportunity, that we judge people as individuals, that, as Martin Luther King said, we ought to judge people on the content of their character instead of the color of their skin. I would hope that we can continue to make progress in that regard in the years ahead. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 105 P.L. 338 IRAQ LIBERATION ACT OF 1998 (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DANVILLE (KY); UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US); DEBATING POLITICAL DEBATES (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); MEDICARE (70%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

PERSON: LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN); CHENEY, DICK DICK CHENEY (91%); JOE LIEBERMAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000



141 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: Bush vs. Gore: Debate Aftermath;
'Fuzzy Math'

 BODY:

To the Editor:
As a mathematician, I was interested when, in the debate, George W. Bush described Al Gore's economic figures as "fuzzy math" (front page, Oct. 4). But I was chagrined when Mr. Bush left it at that. Although he repeated the phrase several times, he never discussed specific problems with Mr. Gore's reasoning or his figures, nor did he offer any alternatives. I gradually came to understand that by "fuzzy math" Mr. Bush meant, "Math is confusing and fuzzy, so ignore it." 
 This is dismaying to see in a man who says he will be a leader of educational reform. We can at least be thankful that if elected, Mr. Bush intends to assemble panels of experts that will presumably know how to work out numbers when economic crises arise.
 
WILLIAM THURSTON
Davis, Calif., Oct. 5, 2000
 
The writer is a professor of mathematics at the University of California at Davis. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MATHEMATICS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); EDUCATION REFORM (67%); ELECTIONS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); THURSTON, WILLIAM (PROF) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000



142 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: Hurricane Fades as It Hits Mexico's Gulf Coast

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Oct. 5

 BODY:
A hurricane that has lashed four nations for a week struck Mexico's gulf coast with 90-mile-an-hour winds today, after killing at least a dozen people, driving tens of thousands from their homes and causing close to a quarter of a billion dollars in damage, the National Hurricane Center in Miami said.
In and around the city of Tampico, where the hurricane made landfall this afternoon, the wind raged at 94 miles an hour, and officials evacuated more than 3,000 people before the time the storm hit, Mexico's civil-defense agency said. 
 But late today, the hurricane was downgraded to a tropical storm and was reported to be rapidly weakening as it continued inland, although flash floods and mudslides still threatened dozens of towns.
No more deaths or injuries were reported.
Over the past week, the storm pounded Mexico and three Central American nations, hitting hardest in Nicaragua and Belize.
In Belize, the government issued an international appeal for help today, saying that 25,000 people, about one in 10 citizens, had been evacuated after the storm hit on Sunday. The damage in Belize was estimated at $200 million, a figure equal to roughly 45 percent of the nation's annual gross domestic product, said Patrick Jones, the government's chief communications officer.
In Nicaragua, the storm led to at least 11 drownings and drove at least 4,000 people from their homes. And from Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula down to Panama, homes were destroyed, bridges knocked out and roads swept away.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Mexico shows the location of Tampico: In Tampico, 3,000 people were evacuated from a hurricane's path.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); BELIZE (93%); NICARAGUA (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); PANAMA (79%); 

STATE: SOUTHEAST USA (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (94%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: GULF COAST WATER AUTHORITY (73%); NATIONAL HURRICANE CENTER (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HURRICANE CENTER (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); BELIZE (93%); NICARAGUA (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); PANAMA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (94%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS HURRICANES (92%); WEATHER (92%); TROPICAL STORMS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); LANDSLIDES (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000



143 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: SHOWDOWN IN YUGOSLAVIA: THE ULTRANATIONALIST;
After the Lost Wars and the Ruined Economy, 'the Greater Slobo' Falls Silent

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: BUDAPEST, Oct. 5

 BODY:
The Serbian nationalist hysteria that swept Slobodan Milosevic to power in the late 1980's evaporated long ago, leaving him an isolated figure ruling over a shrinking land. But with resilience, ruse and ruthlessness, he outmaneuvered his enemies, until at last the enemy became his own people.
Always, Mr. Milosevic believed he could outlast his foes. But the hundreds of thousands of Serbs storming the Parliament in Belgrade today and seizing the television network that has long sustained him with its propaganda made clear that the tide of history had escaped him. 
 Of the Kosovo Albanians, his first enemies, Mr. Milosevic could say that they were intent on a "demographic genocide" against the Serbs -- a reference to their high birthrate. Of the Croats, that they were reincarnated fascists -- a reference to Croatia's World War II past as a Nazi puppet state. Of the Bosnian Muslims, that they were the Ottoman Turks of old bent on destroying the Serbs. Of NATO, that it represented evil American imperialism.
But of his own people, seemingly undivided at last, intent on ending their European isolation, enraged by one maneuver too many that seemed to rob them of their vote in the recent presidential election, Mr. Milosevic could find nothing to say today. He could summon no specter or myth that might divert or divide or cow.
His whereabouts was unknown, but the possibility that even so cunning a man might recover authority seemed remote.
From Western capitals -- Washington, London, Berlin -- the calls to Mr. Milosevic were unambiguous, reflecting a conviction that the man who stirred and sustained the wars of Yugoslavia's long unraveling had at last run out of options: Go, go now, accept your people's verdict and go before more damage is done or blood is spilled.
On the evidence, Mr. Milosevic's time should have been up long ago: his years of rule have seen a succession of lost wars, hundreds of thousands of Serbs uprooted, an economy ruined, wages slashed and an area that was among the most prosperous in the Communist bloc turned into a conspicuous center of poverty.
But it was easy to underestimate him. It was not until the Kosovo war last year that Western governments, including the United States, turned against him unequivocally.
At the Dayton conference in 1995 that ended the war in Bosnia, he was still central to American diplomatic efforts, winning friends with his focus on the big picture and his evocative language: details, to Mr. Milosevic, were mere "technology."
In diplomacy, as at home, the Serbian strongman long succeeded in convincing others that he could not be circumvented.
His methods for conveying and retaining this authority were multiple. In the late 1980's, he saw the power of crude nationalism in a Serbian society whose binding ideology -- Communism -- was disintegrating. The motto of his Communist-turned-socialist party was straightforward: "Serbia does not kneel."
Such slogans earned him at first a mob appeal. His posters were everywhere in the early 1990's as Yugoslavia descended into violence. But kneel Serbia ultimately did in a succession of wars -- in Croatia, then in Bosnia.
Mr. Milosevic always portrayed these conflicts as defensive attempts to allow Serbs to "remain in Yugoslavia" even as he did more than anyone else to precipitate the conflicts through his hate-filled propaganda against all his neighbors.
Most Serbs believed him: the deaths of thousands of Muslims in the Serbian concentration camps in Bosnia in 1992 and at Srebrenica in 1995 were often dismissed in Belgrade as "Muslim propaganda." In fact, they were a demonstration of Mr. Milosevic's readiness to resort to force -- against the Albanians of Kosovo in the 1980's as he suppressed their autonomy, against demonstrators on the streets of Belgrade in 1991, against the Muslims of Bosnia in the rampage of 1992, and against the Albanians again in the late 1990's.
No Stalin, no Hitler, Mr. Milosevic, 59, nonetheless proved himself over the past 13 years to be the most violent ruler Europe has seen in many years. More than 200,000 people have died in the wars of Yugoslavia's destruction. His inability to use force today showed how his strength has evaporated.
His instinct for survival had long proved remarkable. As the wars turned in 1995 and the vision of "Greater Serbia" receded, to be replaced by a vision of "Greater Slobo," many expected Mr. Milosevic to fall. The streets of Belgrade were filled with demonstrators for three months as 1996 turned to 1997. But he deployed a succession of other tactics to replace the galvanizing frenzy of military conflict.
One constant ploy was "divide and rule" -- a highly effective tactic in a society disoriented by the propaganda of Serbian television and used to subjugation. One old Serbian joke had a farmer saying that he would "vote for the opposition when it is in power"; the unfunny thing was that many people long thought that way.
Even as Serbia's resources dwindled, Mr. Milosevic used what money there was to buy loyalty from the secret police he armed and from a coterie of business and political associates who dominated the trafficking in the country's increasingly closed and corrupt economy. Behind this loyal entourage, he hid himself.
The reality of Serbia was increasingly grim, a country poor and isolated, a far cry from the exalted vision that Mr. Milsovic started by offering the Serbs, most memorably, at Kosovo Field in 1989, on the 600th anniversary of the Serbs' losing battle to the Ottoman Turks.
Then he declared that the Serbs "never conquered or exploited others" and were imbued with a "historical being that throughout history was a liberating one." But a "vassal mentality" among Serbian politicians had too long allowed "the humiliation of Serbia." He concluded, "Here we are today on the field of Kosovo to say that it is not so any longer."
For much of his rule, Mr. Milosevic succeeded in sustaining his rule through such myths: that a Balkan enemy, or the outside world, or NATO, was intent on humiliating Serbia and the only way to resist was to stick together.
But the purpose of doing so seemed increasingly elusive. Survival seemed to become Mr. Milosevic's only political intent. As the Serbs of Croatia lost their homes in 1995, and large chunks of Bosnia slipped from his grasp, and finally Kosovo too was lost in an avoidable war with NATO in 1999, he persisted.
The son of parents who both committed suicide, he seemed intent on dragging his people toward the sort of collective death that Serbian myth tends to portray as a form of redemption. Even Serbian myths exhaust themselves, however. Last year, Mr. Milosevic was indicted by the war crimes tribunal in The Hague. As the country suffered, the police and army became estranged.
Vojislav Kostunica, the man who appears on the verge of taking power, faces overwhelming problems, not least the fact that the disintegration of Yugoslavia may not be over. Both Montenegro and Kosovo seek independence that he, like Mr. Milosevic, opposes.
But Mr. Kostunica understands his most effective weapons. He talks unceasingly about the lifting of economic sanctions, the need for dialogue and his desire to turn Serbia once more into a "normal" country. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (92%); CROATIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); ALBANIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (92%); CROATIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); ALBANIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); TURKEY (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); GENOCIDE (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (69%); RELIGION (53%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000



144 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1652 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE DEBATE;
In Civil Clash, Cheney and Lieberman Reinforce Tickets' Sharp Differences

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

 BODY:
With a studied civility, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman and Dick Cheney spelled out their tickets' differences on taxation and foreign policy last night in a vice-presidential debate that more resembled an academic seminar than the political warfare typically expected when understudies cross swords.
In the 90-minute, nationally televised debate, the only scheduled meeting between the Democratic and Republican running mates, there were no slashing attacks, few well-rehearsed quips and only the occasional memorable exchange. Instead, Mr. Lieberman and Mr. Cheney spent most of the night calmly and fluidly reinforcing the most significant points made by their principals, Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, in their first debate on Tuesday night 
 As in the presidential debate, the sharpest exchanges concerned the competing tax cut plans and proposals for spending the projected federal surplus, which together have formed the foundation of the 2000 campaign.
Mr. Cheney described the Democratic proposals for middle-class tax cuts and increased spending on education and health care as "an old way of governing ourselves, of high levels of spending, high taxes, an ever more intrusive bureaucracy."
Mr. Lieberman countered that the Republican proposal for a large across-the-board reduction in income tax rates, combined with various spending programs and the cost of Mr. Bush's plan to privatize part of the Social Security system, would leave the budget with a $1.1 trillion debt. Excerpts, Page A28.
"That means we go back down the road," Mr. Lieberman said, "to higher interest rates, to higher unemployment, to a kind of stealth tax increase on every American family, because when interest rates go up so, too, do the cost of mortgage payments, car payments, student loans, credit card transactions."
The debate was held at Centre College in Danville, Ky., population 16,500, where town leaders promoted the event as "the thrill in the 'ville."
But for the most part, the tone of the debate was as sober as Mr. Cheney's gray suit, a striking contrast to the barely suppressed disdain apparent in Tuesday's contest in Boston.
Mr. Lieberman established the tone early by pledging to remain positive throughout the debate. He said his 85-year-old mother, Marcia, had told him yesterday, " 'Sweetheart' -- as she is prone to call me -- 'remember, be positive and know that I will love you no matter what your opponent says about you.' "
Mr. Cheney quickly joined Mr. Lieberman's pledge, telling his opponent, "I promise not to bring up your singing."
Mr. Lieberman responded, "I promise not to sing."
When the candidates differed, they did so respectfully. When the moderator, Bernard Shaw of CNN, asked Mr. Cheney whether he had noticed any post-nomination "contradiction or hypocritical shift" in Mr. Lieberman's positions, Mr. Cheney seemed reluctant to rise to the bait.
"Well, we've been trying very hard to keep this on the high plane, Bernie," Mr. Cheney began.
But he eventually acceded. "I do have a couple of concerns where I like the old Joe Lieberman better than I do the new Joe Lieberman," he said.
Mr. Cheney then said that many Republicans had admired Mr. Lieberman's stands against the marketing of Hollywood violence to children, but said his opposition had seemed to soften because of the entertainment industry's financial support of the Democratic ticket.
"My concern would be, frankly, that you haven't been as consistent as you had been in the past," Mr. Cheney said to Mr. Lieberman.
Mr. Lieberman, politely, disagreed. "I have not changed a single position since Al Gore nominated me to be his vice president," he said.
Within the confines of their mutual respect, the candidates did manage to establish the fundamental differences between their parties, writing something of a sequel to the debate between Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush.
Like Mr. Gore, Mr. Lieberman repeatedly emphasized that the $1.3 trillion, 10-year income tax cut proposed by the Republicans would primarily benefit the wealthy and would leave little of the projected federal surplus for priorities like improving education and expanding Medicare coverage. He also used a figure of $1.6 trillion to describe it, a number that includes the increase in interest costs to the government that such a tax cut might cause.
Mr. Cheney, meanwhile, echoed Mr. Bush's contention that Mr. Gore and Mr. Lieberman would abandon the centrist Democratic policies of the Clinton years and would rely on big government solutions to the country's problems. He also repeated Mr. Bush's assertion that the Democrats had failed to lead during their eight years in the White House.
"With all due respect, Joe," Mr. Cheney said, "there is just an awful lot of evidence that there has not been any bipartisan leadership out of this administration or out of Al Gore. And the fact is the Medicare problems have not been addressed. We've had eight years of promises on prescription drugs with no action. The Social Security problem has not been addressed. Now we've had eight years of talk and no action."
Mr. Cheney also echoed Mr. Bush's contention that Mr. Gore's tax cut plan, which would provide relief for those putting money into savings accounts, college tuition, child care and other specific purposes, would serve as a form of social engineering.
"If you live your life the way they want you to live your life, if you do, in fact, behave in a certain way, then you qualify for a tax credit," he said.
Mr. Lieberman asserted that the Republicans would have to raid the Medicare trust fund to pay for their tax cut and would not leave enough money to address social needs.
"We're saving money to invest in education," Mr. Lieberman said. "You cannot reform education and improve it in this country without spending some money."
When the questioning turned to military affairs and the Middle East, the candidates traded barbs and efforts to take credit, some subtle, some overt.
Mr. Cheney contended, as he has for months, that President Clinton had allowed military readiness to suffer, saying, "I think that the administration has, in fact, in this area, failed in a major responsibility. We've seen a reduction in our forces far beyond anything that was justified by the end of the cold war. The same time, we've seen a rapid expansion of our commitments around the world as troops have been sent hither and yon."
Mr. Lieberman responded that the American military was "the best-trained, best-equipped, most powerful force in the world and that Al Gore and I will do whatever it takes to keep them that way."
The debate dwelt at considerable length on the Middle East, an area where both men showed -- and claimed -- a level of comfort, Mr. Cheney based in his years as defense secretary during the Persian Gulf war, and Mr. Lieberman based on his interest in Israel.
When asked how the United States should respond if Iraqi president Saddam Hussein were discovered to be developing weapons of mass destruction, Mr. Cheney said, "You'd have to give very serious consideration to military action to stop that activity."
But Mr. Lieberman said, "I don't think a political campaign is the occasion to declare what we would do in that case."
Similarly, Mr. Lieberman defended the United States' role in Bosnia and Kosovo. "I know our opponents have said that they thought that was an overreaching," he said. "It wasn't. It was a matter of principal and America's national interest and values. And the fact is that we stopped the aggression. We stopped the genocide."
In response, Mr. Cheney did not, in fact, accuse the Clinton administration of overreaching. But when Mr. Shaw asked him whether the military should be used as warriors or peacekeepers, Mr. Cheney chose the former, but said such engagements should have a time limit.
While Mr. Lieberman and Mr. Cheney both sought to reinforce their tickets' principle themes, last night's debate also served to reintroduce them to an electorate that knew them mostly from the acceptance speeches they had delivered at party conventions last summer.
In that way, the debate gave both candidates a chance not only to highlight their policy differences with the other ticket but also to try to prove that their running mates had demonstrated leadership and wisdom in selecting them.
That challenge was considered particularly important to Mr. Cheney.His choice as running mate was questioned almost immediately because of his congressional votes against Head Start and a resolution calling for the release of Nelson Mandela from a South African prison. He has also been assailed for his ties to the oil industry through the Halliburton Company, the Texas firm he led until his selection. Mr. Lieberman did not touch those issues last night.
As a committed centrist, a moral critic of President Clinton and the first Jew nominated by a major party, Mr. Lieberman is widely considered to have boosted the appeal of the Democratic ticket. His primary vulnerabilities so far have been his historical differences with Mr. Gore on several issues, including affirmative action and school vouchers. Again, except when prompted by Mr. Shaw, Mr. Cheney chose not to exploit those differences.
What viewers did see was both the seriousness and the dry wit that define both men.
Mr. Lieberman, for instance, defended the Clinton administration's economic record by arguing that most people in America would agree that they were better off today than they were eight years ago.
"And I'm pleased to see, Dick, from the newspapers that you are better off than you were eight years ago, too," Mr. Lieberman said, referring to the Mr. Cheney's multimillion dollar compensation package from Halliburton.
Mr. Cheney smiled, and shot back, "And I can tell you, Joe, that the government had absolutely nothing to do with it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The vice-presidential candidates, Dick Cheney, left, and Joseph I. Lieberman, maintained an air of calm and civility in their debate last night. (Reuters)(pg. A27); (pg. A1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRE COLLEGE (KY)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRE COLLEGE (KY)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; DEBATING; ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS TAXES & TAXATION (93%); POLITICAL DEBATES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); STUDENT LOANS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); EVENT MARKETING (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (72%); FAMILY (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); INCOME TAX (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); CREDIT CARDS (64%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN); CHENEY, DICK DICK CHENEY (93%); JOE LIEBERMAN (93%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000



145 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; National 

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN;
Sorting It Out: Tax Cuts and Spending

 BODY:
RICHARD W. STEVENSON
In Tuesday's debate, Gov. George W. Bush and Vice President Al Gore threw at each other -- and viewers -- a barrage of claims and counterclaims, facts and figures and jargon. Many of the same issues came up in last night's vice-presidential debate. Here are explanations of some of the assertions. RICHARD W. STEVENSON
 
Gov. George W. Bush

"I want to take one-half of the surplus and dedicate it to Social Security, one-quarter of the surplus for important projects. And I want to send one-quarter of the surplus back to the people who pay the bills."
 Mr. Bush's figures understate the proportion of the surplus that his tax cut would use and overstate the proportion that his spending would use.
 The total budget surplus over the next 10 years is projected by the Congressional Budget Office to be $4.56 trillion. Mr. Bush, like Mr. Gore and the two parties in Congress, has agreed that the portion of the surplus generated by Social Security -- $2.38 trillion, or 52 percent of the total -- should go only to reducing the national debt or shoring up the retirement system.
 Mr. Bush's proposed tax cut amounts to $1.32 trillion, or 29 percent of the surplus. It is also fair to say that Mr. Bush's tax cut uses up $1.6 trillion of the surplus. That is because the surplus is calculated on the assumption that all of it will go to reducing the national debt, lowering the government's interest costs. If $1.32 trillion of the surplus goes to a tax cut, the interest bill will rise by around $300 billion. If the tax cut is valued at $1.6 trillion, that would be 35 percent of the surplus.
 In saying he would devote one quarter of the surplus to "important projects," Mr. Bush was referring to his plans for additional spending on health, education, agriculture, the military and other needs. He values his spending package at $475 billion over 10 years, which would be 10 percent of the surplus. If interest costs of $100 billion are added to the spending proposal, it would be 13 percent of the surplus.
 "After my plan is in place, the wealthiest Americans will pay a higher percentage of taxes than they do today, and the poorest of Americans -- six million families, seven million people -- won't pay any tax at all."
 Mr. Bush's assertion was based on an analysis by his economic team that shows that people at lower income levels would get a bigger income tax cut in percentage terms, though not in dollar terms, than people at higher income levels.
 People earning $200,000 or more would pay 40.9 percent of all income taxes under the Bush plan, compared to 39.1 percent under current law. People earning between $20,000 and $30,000 would pay 1.9 percent of all income taxes under the Bush plan, compared with 2.2 percent under current law. The analysis excludes the proposed estate tax repeal.
 By reducing tax rates and doubling the child credit to $1,000, six million low- to middle-income families would see their federal income tax liability wiped out completely, according to the Bush campaign. But they would continue to be subject to the payroll taxes that finance Social Security and Medicare.

Vice President Al Gore
 "Under Governor Bush's tax cut proposal, he would spend more money on tax cuts for the wealthiest 1 percent than all of the new spending that he proposes for education, health care, prescription drugs and national defense all combined."
 Mr. Gore's assertion is based on an analysis by a liberal-leaning tax research group, Citizens for Tax Justice. Its findings are similar to other studies in concluding that the wealthiest taxpayers -- those who pay the most taxes -- would get a far bigger tax cut in dollar terms from Mr. Bush than would low- and middle-income taxpayers.
 But the validity of the comparison to Mr. Bush's spending plans hinges on how the analysis deals with one element of Mr. Bush's plan, the repeal of the federal estate tax.
 Citizens for Tax Justice found that 42.6 percent of the benefits of the Bush tax cut, including the estate tax repeal, would go to the wealthiest 1 percent of taxpayers by income -- those making $319,000 or more. If that percentage were applied to the $1.3 trillion price tag that Mr. Bush puts on his tax plan, it implies that $554 billion would go to the wealthiest 1 percent. Mr. Bush's budget proposal calls for $475 billion in additional spending over the next 10 years on the areas cited by Mr. Gore, and others.
 The estate tax applies to estates valued at $675,000 or more, and Citizens for Tax Justice assumed that its repeal would benefit people in the top 1 percent of income almost exclusively. But there is a debate among tax analysts about that assumption, since the tax is sometimes paid by the estates of farmers and small business owners who have modest cash incomes and since the tax is in a sense paid by heirs, whose income levels are unknown.
 If the estate tax is taken out of the calculation, 30 percent of Mr. Bush's tax cut would go to the wealthiest 1 percent, according to Citizens for Tax Justice. Without the estate tax repeal, Mr. Bush values his tax cut at $1.06 trillion, and 30 percent of that would be $318 billion, or $157 billion less than Mr. Bush's spending plan.
 "I think we need to put Social Security and Medicare in a lockbox. The governor will not put Medicare in a lockbox."
 Mr. Gore was referring to proposals to wall off excess revenues being generated by Social Security and Medicare so that they could not be used to pay for tax cuts or new spending programs.
 There is no disagreement when it comes to Social Security. Mr. Gore has proposed that the Medicare surplus -- $360 billion over the next 10 years -- be dedicated solely to debt reduction. The idea has considerable bipartisan support in Congress. But Mr. Bush's proposed budget relies on the Medicare surplus to pay for his tax cuts and spending plans. Using the Bush campaign's figures, Mr. Bush's budget would go $95 billion into the red over 10 years if the Medicare surplus were put off limits. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; DEBATING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES TAX LAW (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAX RELIEF (88%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); NATIONAL DEBT (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); INCOME TAX (74%); FAMILY (61%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); AL GORE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000



146 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 1; Classified

LENGTH: 250 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
SILLS, NATHANIEL L., 93 YEARS.

 BODY:
SILLS-Nathaniel L., 93 years. Devoted husband of the late Ruth, father of Larry and Susan, Arthur and Sarah, Peter and Susan, grandfather of Deborah and Adam, Eric and Leah, Matthew, Dylan, Daniel and Noah, greatgrandfather of Jacob, Eli & Laila. He was Chairman of the Board of Standard Motor Products but his main passion was his family. He had a profound influence on all of us. Services Sunday, 12 noon, at Schwartz Brothers Jeffer Memorial, Queens Blvd and 76th Road, Forest Hills. In lieu of flowers contributions can be made to American Parkinson's Disease Association, 650 West 168 St, NYC 10032.
SILLS-Nathaniel L. The employees of Standard Motor Products, Inc. are deeply saddened by the passing of their esteemed Chairman of the Board, Nathaniel Sills, on Tuesday evening, October 3, 2000, at the age of 93. He served his company for more than 57 years. A recipient of the Ellis Island Medals of Honor 2000, he served his community with distinction. He made life richer for all who knew him. Services will be conducted at Schwartz BrothersJeffer Memorial Chapel, 114-03 Queens Blvd., Forest Hills at 12 noon on Sunday, October 8, 2000.
SILLS-Nathaniel. The Board of Directors and Staff of The Structured Employment Economic Development Corporation (Seedco) notes with great sadness the passing of Nathaniel Sills, beloved father of Lawrence Sills, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Seedco. We extend our deepest sympathy to the entire family. William J. Grinker President Seedco 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

TICKER: SMP (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (56%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD MOTOR PRODUCTS INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); GRANDPARENTS (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); 

PERSON: SILLS, NATHANIEL L., 93 YEARS. LAWRENCE I SILLS (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2000



147 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Power Plant In Thailand Is Criticized

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Oct. 6

 BODY:
Thailand's national utility plans to sell to the public this month 40 percent of a power plant that is the exclusive customer of a natural gas project in Myanmar connected to the Unocal Corporation.
The natural gas project has been sharply criticized by human rights activists, who say that it helps finance an oppressive junta in Myanmar, formerly known as Burma. 
 Thailand first made plans for the gas-fired plant in Ratchaburi, west of Bangkok, in the early 1990's to help feed soaring power demand and in 1995 signed a 30-year agreement to buy natural gas from Myanmar to fuel it. But by the time the $1 billion pipeline was ready, Thailand was in the midst of the Asian financial crisis, power demand had plummeted, and the new plant was delayed. Thailand was stuck paying for gas it could not use and, some argue, does not need.
Now, as part of its agreement with the World Bank for emergency financing during the crisis, Thailand is trying to privatize the plant and raise as much as 8.7 billion baht, or about $204 million.
"It's altogether a failure," said Pipob Udomittipong, a member of the environmental group EarthRights International. "It's a mismanagement of the energy policy in this country."
The Ratchaburi public offering is the business end of a wider controversy that stretches from the waters off Myanmar all the way to the United States Supreme Court. Ratchaburi buys its gas from two sources in Myanmar, the Yetagun consortium partly owned by Premier Oil of Britain and the Yadana consortium that includes Total Fina Elf of France and Unocal, which is based in El Segundo, Calif.
Opponents of the projects say they help finance Myanmar's military rulers, who have clung to power despite losing an election in 1990 to the party of the pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi.
Human rights activists have also taken aim at the projects' Western owners. They contend that when the companies built the pipeline to carry the gas from the ocean 60 kilometers across rebel-contested territory in Myanmar to the Thai border, the companies became knowing accessories to slave labor and other human rights abuses perpetrated by the troops securing the area.
The companies have denied the allegations, with Unocal arguing that its pipeline investment has improved the lives of nearby residents and is an argument against the kind of sanctions the United States imposed in 1997 against any new investments in Myanmar.
Last month, a federal judge in Los Angeles dismissed a lawsuit against Unocal filed on behalf of 15 Myanmar residents. The judge ruled that while Unocal was aware that the military was using forced labor it had not conspired with the regime. The plaintiffs plan to appeal.
Earlier this year, the Supreme Court declared unconstitutional a Massachusetts state law prohibiting companies that do business in Myanmar from obtaining state contracts.
Human rights activists say the gas projects help Myanmar's ruling generals buy weapons to suppress scattered rebellion among the country's ethnic minorities and to prop up their brutal regime.
The Ratchaburi Electricity Generating Holding Company and its Thai underwriters have been careful to advertise the stock offering primarily to the Thai public, where Myanmar's human rights record has generated little controversy. Underwriters have not even prepared an English version of the company's prospectus, analysts said.
But underwriters have reportedly set aside about half of the new shares for institutional investors like mutual funds, and brokers in Bangkok said there was nothing to stop foreigners from buying the shares, especially once they were listed on the stock exchange. Officials at SCB Securities, the lead underwriter, could not be reached for comment.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Thailand highlighting Ratchaburi: A power plant in Ratchaburi has drawn the ire of rights activists. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UCL (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM AND NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%); 

COUNTRY: MYANMAR (99%); THAILAND (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

COMPANY: TOTAL FINA GABON (54%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR (99%); THAILAND (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POWER PLANTS (91%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (87%); SUPREME COURTS (86%); LITIGATION (86%); APPEALS (86%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); JUDGES (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); ARMED FORCES (63%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (61%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (53%); 

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2000



148 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: At Last, Recognition and Praise for the Resistance in Nazi Germany

BYLINE: By SHAREEN BLAIR BRYSAC; Shareen Blair Brysac is the author of "Resisting Hitler: Mildred Harnack and the Red Orchestra."

 BODY:
When the British historian A. J. P. Taylor declared in the 1960's that German resistance to the Nazis was a myth, his was a widely held view. Even today many people in Germany and elsewhere believe there was little internal opposition to Hitler.
After decades of bitter debate, however, the German resistance's tangled history is coming into sharper focus. Since the fall of the Berlin Wall and the end of the cold war in 1989, newly released K.G.B. and C.I.A. files and long-ignored documents in the Roosevelt Library in 
 Hyde Park, N.Y., reveal that the once-scorned Communist and socialist resistance deserves more credit.
As Germany celebrates the 10th anniversary of reunification this week, there are signs that the left's contributions are finally being recognized. Streets in western Germany are being named for members of the Red Orchestra, a leftist resistance group that had been maligned for decades, while the high-speed trains plying from Hanover through the former eastern zone to Berlin bear names of German resisters like Count Claus Schenk von Stauffenberg, who had been honored only in the former West Germany.
But this searching re-examination has not been painless. Old East-West antagonisms have shot through attempts to correct the record.
Delicate political sensibilities are part of the reason that a more complete picture of the German resistance has been so long in coming. During the Nazi era the breadth of internal opposition was hidden from the German people and, except for the failed Stauffenberg plot of July 20, 1944, to assassinate Hitler, from the rest of the world. Yet Gestapo records reveal that approximately 800,000 Germans in a population of more than 66 million were jailed for active resistance during the Reich's 12-year reign. Indeed, the first concentration camps, notably Dachau, built near Munich in 1933, were meant for left-wing dissidents. In 1936, a typical year, 11,687 Germans were arrested for illegal socialist activity, according to Peter Hoffmann's standard 1977 study, "The History of the German Resistance, 1933-1945."
Even after the war the record was obscured. To many Germans the resistance was an awkward reminder that choices were possible, even in wartime. In Germany's western sector, influential voices echoed the Nazi judiciary in defining all resistance against the fatherland as high treason.
This view persisted after the founding of the German Federal Republic, or West Germany, in 1949. Survivor benefits, for example, were denied to the widows and children of the conservative officers who tried to kill Hitler in 1944, even though the widows of SS officers were receiving benefits.
As West Germany became the anchor of Western Europe, its frontiers guaranteed by NATO, a less defensive populace began to honor some resistance leaders like the army officers led by Count Stauffenberg who tried to assassinate Hitler in 1944, churchmen like Dietrich Bonhoeffer, and the Catholic students in the so-called White Rose group. Even so, Communist opponents were still shunned. In 1956 the Bonn Parliament voted to compensate many German victims of Nazism, but when the Communist Party was declared illegal in West Germany, the Communists were excluded from any benefits.
Perhaps no group was more consistently misrepresented during the cold war or better illustrates the current re-examination of German resistance than the Red Orchestra. The Red Orchestra was a loosely organized group of about 120 Catholics, socialists, conservatives and former Communist Party members centered on Arvid Harnack, a former Rockefeller scholar and official in the German Economics Ministry; his American wife, Mildred; a Luftwaffe lieutenant, Harro Schulze-Boysen; and his wife, Libertas, who worked for the film section of the Propaganda Ministry.
Although often portrayed as a Soviet agent, Harnack in fact provided top-secret intelligence to an American diplomat in Berlin as well as to the Soviets. And despite Soviet requests to cease all resistance activities, the group printed and distributed anti-Nazi literature and helped Jews and dissidents escape until, because of a gross Soviet intelligence blunder, the Gestapo arrested 120 people in 1942 and 1943. One result was the torture, secret trial and execution of 31 men and 18 women, including Mildred Harnack.
In East Germany, the Soviet-installed government celebrated the Red Orchestra and other "anti-fascist heroes" to lend a measure of legitimacy to the regime. Streets and schools were named after Marxist resisters. History was rewritten with Orwellian zeal. Arvid Harnack's last words, uttered before he was executed, were changed from "I believe in the power of love" to "I die as a convinced Communist!"
In West Germany the truth was obscured in a different way. Writing in 1954, the historian Gerhard Ritter expressed a common West German judgment about the Red Orchestra: "This group had nothing to do with 'German resistance.' They were frankly in the service of the enemy. They not only sought to induce German soldiers to desert, but they also betrayed important military secrets and so destroyed German troops." They were, Ritter declared, traitors.
Information that emerged after reunification has renewed the debate over who deserves to be honored. In 1992, for example, the Memorial Museum of the German Resistance in Berlin installed a corrective exhibition on the Red Orchestra intended as a "tardy atonement for the victims and their survivors, and an apology for long neglect in the history of the German resistance." But the group's inclusion at the memorial site provoked an outraged protest by families of the July 20 conspirators.
And when an exhibit from the museum was sent to Washington and New York in 1994, Maria Hermes, the daughter of the Catholic resister Josef Wirmer, insisted that a distinction be made between the men who planned the overthrow of Hitler to restore peace and re-establish Germany as a free constitutional state "and those of the anti-fascists who wanted to establish Communist rule." Schulze-Boysen's brother, Hartmut, fired back that unlike the officers who served Hitler loyally until 1944, his brother and friends had never served the National Socialist state. They "had given their lives not for Stalin but rather in fighting Hitler," he said.
Yet with the 10th anniversary of reunification, critical opinion is decisively turning in the revisionists' favor. A permanent exhibit honoring Schulze-Boysen and a comrade, Erwin Gehrts, opened last December in the Finance Ministry, a building which at onetime housed Hermann Goring's Luftwaffe.
Perhaps the most telling signal of the shift in German public opinion was the warm reception accorded "This Death Suits Me," the collected letters of Schulze-Boysen, when it was published last fall. Many people were moved by the final letter that the 33-year-old Schulze-Boysen sent to his parents: "I am completely calm and ask that you accept this with composure. Such important things are at stake today all over the world that one extinguished life does not matter very much. . . . Everything that I did was done in accordance with my head, my heart, my convictions, and in this light you, my parents, must assume the best. . . . It is usual in Europe for spiritual seeds to be sown with blood. Perhaps we were simply a few fools, but when the end is this near, one perhaps has the right to a bit of completely personal historical illusion."
Even the reviewer in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, the most conservative of dailies, described the Red Orchestra as one of the "most moving, most courageous and most farsighted groups of the German resistance."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Gestapo photograph of Mildred Harnack, who helped feed intelligence to Hitler's enemies abroad. (From "Resisting Hitler" by Shareen Blair Brysac Oxford University Press )(pg. B9); Nearly 100,000 storm troopers heard a 1936 speech by Hitler. They were a lot to resist. (Associated Press)(pg. B11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); 

COMPANY: HYDE PARK MARKETS (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (72%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WORLD WAR II (90%); HISTORY (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (76%); COLD WAR (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); ARMIES (72%); TREASON (69%); ARRESTS (63%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (63%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (53%); TRAINS (53%); 

PERSON: MILDRED HARNACK (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2000



149 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Bolivia Makes Key Concessions to Indians

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: LA PAZ, Bolivia, Oct. 6

 BODY:
The Bolivian government today agreed to a broad range of demands by Indian peasant leaders, buckling under the pressure of three weeks of road blockades that paralyzed the economy, caused food shortages and threatened to force the resignation of President Hugo Banzer.
The government gave in to the most important demands of the Aymara-speaking peasants after Indian leaders threatened to surround La Paz and starve the capital in a replay of an Indian rebellion in 1781. 
 Sitting across a table from Indian leaders who chewed coca leaves throughout the night, government ministers agreed to prop up corn prices, reverse a land titling process that would have raised taxes, and return water rights from the government to Indian peasants.
It was the second time in six months that President Banzer was forced to retreat on government initiatives in the face of large-scale protests to avert a collapse of his authority and the shaky Bolivian economy.
Political analysts including Peruvian journalists and academics said his growing signs of weakness would probably invite more costly protests in the coming months by the restive labor and peasant movements.
Shortly before reaching an agreement in the predawn hours today, Economic Development Minister Jose Luis Lupo said this country of 8.1 million people had suffered losses of at least $120 million in damaged roads, spoiled food and interrupted exports during the last three weeks.
"This is the worst crisis Bolivia has faced since 1985, when we had a 24,000 percent inflation rate," Mr. Lupo said.
Despite its concessions to the Indians, the government has refused to accept demands by coca growers in the Chapare region to stop short of its goal of eradicating all coca plants by Feb. 1 and to allow peasant families to grow small private plots.
The Chapare coca growers, who continue to block roads between the cities of Cochabamba and Santa Cruz with stones and logs, agreed today to resume separate talks with the government.
With money and technical help from the United States and the United Nations, the Bolivian government has reduced coca plantings in Chapare, the principal cultivation area for Bolivian cocaine exports, to 4,050 acres as of Thursday from 70,400 acres in 1998, according to the American Embassy here.
In previous negotiations with the coca growers, the government agreed last month to forgo plans to build three new army bases in Chapare. But President Banzer has vowed that he will not back down on his pledge to destroy the remaining coca crops in Chapare in the next three months and then destroy 6,000 acres of illicit coca cultivation in the Yungas region early next year.
"We say illegal coca cultivation will be zero in 2002, and we intend to keep to that goal," said Mr. Lupo, the economic development minister, in an interview.
Congressman Evo Morales, the leader of the coca growers, said today that his movement would continue to march and block roads until the government backed down.
But Mr. Morales appears to be in an increasingly isolated position now that the larger peasant confederations have agreed to halt their protests. He is widely expected to give up the road blockade in the next few days or face military action.
Felipe Quispe, 58, a former guerrilla leader who was imprisoned for six years on terrorism charges, emerged from the recent protests as the dominant leader of the Indian peasant movement.
Mr. Quispe, who is better known as Mallku -- the Great Condor in Aymara -- used fiery oratory, going so far as to say that "the whites should leave the country."
In an interview on Thursday, Mr. Quispe said his ultimate goals were to force Mr. Banzer to resign and reverse his pro-market economic policies. "Banzer is incapable, inept and he can't govern," Mr. Quispe said. "He has to go."
Mr. Quispe's road blockade was so effective that the air force was sent to deliver food to cities. Meat became scarce, and vegetables and fruits more than doubled in price in many markets. Ten people were killed in the protests, and thousands were left stranded and destitute throughout the country. An affiliated teachers' strike left more than half of the country's public schools closed for weeks.
The situation became so desperate that housewives began threatening to loot grocery stores and businessmen in Santa Cruz warned that they would mount a tax boycott until the government used whatever force necessary to reopen the roads.
President Banzer showed great restraint, in part because he is trying hard to overcome his old reputation for brutality garnered when he ruled as a military dictator in the 1970's. But the analysts also noted that when he declared a state of siege in April to end protests over water prices in Cochabamba, protests only grew and the national police went on strike for higher wages.
With two years left in his five-year term, Mr. Banzer increasingly looks like a lame duck. His governing coalition is fraying, and his credibility continues to suffer from widespread reports of government corruption.
The husband of one Mr. Banzer's nieces faces charges of cloning cellular phones and running an illegal gambling ring, and three trial judges who acquitted him on drug charges last year are themselves now being investigated on corruption charges. Under American pressure, the acquittal has been overturned.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Hugo Banzer, greeting an audience yesterday in La Paz, has been forced to back down on initiatives twice in six months. (Reuters); Peasants have pressured the Bolivian government with road blockades, leaving food shortages for people and livestock. A pile of rotting chickens, thrown by protesters, lay outside government offices in Cochabamba. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOLIVIA (98%); PERU (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LA PAZ, BOLIVIA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOLIVIA (98%); PERU (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LA PAZ, BOLIVIA (71%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FARM LABOR (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); COCAINE (89%); STARVATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INFLATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POLITICS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); WATER RIGHTS (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (61%); ARMED FORCES (50%); ARMIES (50%); 

PERSON: HUGO BANZER (90%); FELIPE QUISPE (74%); JOSE LUIS LUPO (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2000



150 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1829 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: Using Bankruptcy As a Takeover Tool;
Russian Law Puts Healthy Companies at Risk

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

DATELINE: NOVOKUZNETSK, Russia

 BODY:
The Novokuznetsk Aluminum Plant here turns out 276,000 tons of metal a year, more than 10 percent of Russia's total production and enough to build more than 3,500 Boeing 747's.
It makes a profit on every ton by selling its ingots abroad for foreign currency after processing it in Russia, where workers' wages and supplies are priced in rubles far below world cost. 
 Nonetheless, in January, a local court, prodded by the regional governor, declared the company bankrupt and named a new set of managers. It is now controlled by a former competitor, one that has cultivated a relationship with the governor.
As Novokuznetsk Aluminum's fortunes demonstrate, bankruptcy in Russia often has more to do with politics than it does with balance sheets. A two-year-old bankruptcy law lets debts of as little as $5,000 topple companies worth millions, if the bills go unpaid for three months. In Russia, where even the government routinely runs months behind in paying wages and other obligations, that means most companies are candidates for receivership. The number of bankruptcies has soared 150 percent in two years.
All over Russia, local politicians and business tycoons have latched onto the bankruptcy law to effectively seize valuable companies at a fraction of their market value, critics say. Powerful local politicians start the process by opening the door to a predator business group and pressing judges to put the target company into bankruptcy and name one of the predator's own employees to manage it. Through these managers, called receivers, the process is most often abused, critics said.
"In a developed economy, bankruptcy is a process that eliminates enterprises that aren't effective, but in Russia it doesn't work like that," said Pyotr Karpov, the former deputy head of the Federal Bankruptcy Service. "Bankruptcy here has absolutely no relation to how economically effective a company is or to the amount of its debts.
"The law thinks in a Western way," he said, "but the creditors think only of how to use bankruptcy to grab the company."
Probably the best-known example is the BP Amoco investment of $500 million in a Russian oil company called Sidanco. A rival Russian business group pushed Sidanco's most valuable subsidiaries into bankruptcy last year after acquiring their debts from other creditors. The rival group, the Tyumen Oil Company, used the process to snap up those subsidiaries at bargain prices, eviscerating BP Amoco's investment. BP Amoco, based in London, eventually recouped a part of its investment, but only after enlisting the United States government to threaten a key loan to Russia.
Russia rewrote its bankruptcy statute two years ago to try to correct problems caused by a 1992 law approved soon after the collapse of the former Soviet Union's centrally planned economic system. That law let companies accumulate debts with impunity and resulted in a tangle of unpaid bills that choked the economy. The new law addressed that problem, critics said, but created others by setting too low a threshold for bankruptcies and allowing local politicians too much control over the process.
Almost 11,000 companies entered bankruptcy last year, compared with 4,300 in 1997, before the new law was passed, according to Russian research published by the Center for Economic Policy Research, a private London-based institution. Most of these companies were liquidated to pay creditors. But more than 10 percent -- most often big companies -- were put into receivership, with their debts frozen and cash flows put in the hands of court-appointed managers.
The law lets healthy companies fall into bankruptcy almost as often as sick ones, the Russian researchers found. Because the amount of debt required to start the process is so small, Russia's bankruptcy process has yet to begin separating truly insolvent companies from those that can pay their debts.
Yekaterina Zhuravskaya, an economist at the Center for Economic and Financial Research in Moscow and a co-author of the Center for Economic Research study, found that Russian companies under external management were usually no worse, and sometimes much better, at servicing their debts before being put into bankruptcy than were companies not pushed into receivership. There is no economic reason these companies are being bankrupted when the others, which are worse, are not, she said.
In the Kemerovo region of Siberia, where Novokuznetsk Aluminum is situated, the aluminum plant is not the only enterprise in the hands of a receiver. Local authorities have used bankruptcy to unseat the owners of all the largest enterprises.
Formally, the local electric utility started the aluminum company's bankruptcy. The state-controlled utility company said that the smelter was $54 million behind in payments for electricity. Novokuznetsk Aluminum said it owed far less. The company declined to give its net worth, but a former manager said it sold $414 million worth of metal last year. Politics, however, pushed the bankruptcy through, and the region's powerful governor, Aman Tuleev, does not hide his own role.
"We had to change the owners," Mr. Tuleev said in an interview, waving his hand in his spacious office in the region's capital, Kemerovo. He described the previous owners, the Zhivilo brothers, as con men.
If the bankruptcy served the needs of the governor, it did not help the aluminum company's largest creditor. The electric utility became a victim of the process it had started when the court-appointed receiver, Sergei Chernyshyov, challenged the very debt that had driven the aluminum plant into bankruptcy. A court let him revalue the debt at about $1 million, less than 2 percent of what the creditor expected to collect.
Now a former competitor is consolidating control over Novokuznetsk Aluminum. Exports flow through companies affiliated with Russian Aluminum, the holding company that controls about 70 percent of the country's aluminum industry. Though Mr. Chernyshyov said he was not connected to the group, the general director he recently hired came from one of Russian Aluminum's subsidiaries. A photograph of Russian Aluminum's chief executive, Oleg Deripaska, hangs on the new general director's wall.
"This was theft in broad daylight," said Mikhail Zhivilo, the former owner, in an interview earlier this year. "If it was the money they wanted, they could have just seized the supplies that were en route to the plant. They wanted the factory, and the only way to do this was through bankruptcy."
While Kemerovo regional authorities needed the electricity company's help to bankrupt the aluminum smelter, they have been able to intervene directly with larger enterprises in the region. The new bankruptcy law enables local governments to prevent the closing of a city's main employer. Under the law, local governments can extend receiverships for companies with at least 5,000 employees to as long as 10 years, compared with 18 months for other concerns. Companies with more than 5,000 employees account for 41 percent of industrial production.
Such lengthy receiverships have given regional governors and their allies time to manipulate the finances of these largest companies. Often, they press courts to name a politically connected receiver who is often allied with one of the creditors. The receiver is motivated to run up its debt, giving the creditor more control over the company. Rather than restoring companies to solvency, receivers often drive them deeper into debt.
Kemerovo's biggest steel plant is one example. The Western Siberia Steel Works, known as ZapSib, was so indebted in 1996 that Mr. Karpov's federal bankruptcy committee and the company's main creditor both recommended immediate liquidation. But the former regional governor stalled efforts to close ZapSib -- which with 35,000 workers is Kemerovo's largest employer -- until the new bankruptcy law took effect with a clause shielding big employers. ZapSib was put into receivership.
Since then, the company has had three changes of management and its debts have ballooned to about 12 billion rubles from 4 billion rubles. Each receiver has worked in the interest of a different creditor, critics say, with the latest favoring a Moscow-based trading company called Evraz Holding. Last year's profit of 600 million rubles, or about $21 million, should have exceeded $150 million, the critics add.
"My question is, where's the money?" said Igor Burtsev, who worked under a previous ZapSib bankruptcy team. ZapSib's current managers said they reinvested profits to expand production, a decision they said was validated by the mill's return to profit after years of steady losses.
A local court extended bankruptcy proceedings at ZapSib this summer for another seven years, ostensibly to give the company more time to improve its finances. Critics like Mr. Burtsev said the extension was granted to give Evraz, whose spokesman ran Mr. Tuleev's presidential election campaign this year, more time to consolidate control among the creditors.
Despite the weakness of bankruptcy as a tool in Russia, it is a vast improvement over the chaos of the early 1990's, when property struggles in the aluminum industry were sometimes settled with lead. Rival business groups used contract killings to try to intimidate one another.
"At least people are going to court these days," said Mr. Burtsev, who has quit the metals business and recently started an Internet company. "Five years ago they would have been shooting each other."
Some rough business tactics remain, however.
Mikhail Zhivilo, the former owner of the aluminum plant, is in hiding after the regional prosecutor threatened to arrest him on charges of trying to assassinate the governor. An Olympic biathlon champion who is Mr. Zhivilo's close friend has been in custody for more than a month for the same offense. Mr. Tuleev made similar accusations against others on five earlier occasions.
Even the harshest critics said Russia's problems were not that different from those experienced in other relatively young industrialized economies. "The struggle in Russia now, pitting strong regions against the federal center, closely resembles the one that was raging in the U.S. in the 19th century," said Eric Berglof, director of the Stockholm Institute of Transitional Economies.
Western economists agree, however, that Russia needs an effective bankruptcy process. Its economy has never gone through the process necessary to separate companies that can survive under market conditions from those that cannot. As a result, sick companies are sucking valuable resources from healthy ones, dragging out Russia's transition to a market economy.
"We have loss-making enterprises in all economies," said Barry Ickes, a professor of economics at Penn State. "In the U.S. we have Amtrak, but it doesn't matter because its share in the economy is small. In Russia, you have a lot of Amtraks."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two workers at the Western Siberia Steel Works oversee a pipe-making line. The company has been driven deeper in debt by various bankruptcy receivers. (James Hill for The New York Times)
 
Drawing (Victor Juhasz)
 
Chart: "Legal Extortion"
Though overall corporate debt levels in Russia are falling, bankurptcies continue to rise, in part because politically connected creditors can use bankruptcy laws to seize assets.
 
Charts track overdue payments as a share of gross domestic product for major industries and first-quarter figures for agriculture, industry, transportation and construction companies.
 
Chart tracks total bankruptcies started each year since 1994.
(Sources: Center for Economic Policy Research Disussion; Davis Center for Russian Studies, Harvard University)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); BP (NYSE) (52%); BP (LSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (81%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (52%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); 

COMPANY: TNK-BP LTD (81%); BOEING CO (58%); BP PLC (52%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); CENTRE FOR ECONOMIC POLICY RESEARCH (59%); CENTRE FOR ECONOMIC POLICY RESEARCH (59%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); CENTRE FOR ECONOMIC POLICY RESEARCH (59%); CENTRE FOR ECONOMIC POLICY RESEARCH (59%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2000



151 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: Tehran Journal;
The 2 Lives of a Newly Minted Cleric

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: TEHRAN

 BODY:
The black cloak was draped over his shoulders, nearly covering his neatly pressed long gray robe. The white turban carried on a gladiola-covered tray was placed on his head. Grand Ayatollah Nasser Makarem-Shirazi, one of the most senior religious leaders in Iran, expressed confidence that the new cleric would carry on the work of his father, a beloved senior ayatollah from Shiraz who had died a few days before. The crowd of several thousand cheered, "Praise be to God!" over and over.
The "bestowing of the turban," as the crowning ceremony is called, was over in five minutes. 
 Amir Mahallati has been a diplomat, a visiting professor at Princeton, Yale and Columbia, a scholar in residence at policy institutes in Washington and a self-appointed pitchman for promoting understanding between Iran and the United States.
As Iran's ambassador to the United Nations in the late 1980's, he was recalled home after he promoted an early end to the Iran-Iraq war. A self-taught expert on medieval Persian poets, he can effortlessly recite their mystical love poetry.
Now suddenly, at 48, without any formal religious training or scholarly writings to his name, Mr. Mahallati has been transformed into a cleric. And not a low-level cleric, either. He has been made a hojatolislam, the same rank as Iran's president, Mohammad Khatami, and just one level below ayatollah.
"To go from being a layman to a cleric overnight!" Mr. Mahallati exclaimed over dinner at a private home in Tehran one evening. "Well, I've never been one to be cautious."
The vocation is usually passed down within a clerical or deeply religious family. For 300 years the Mahallatis have been clerics. Mr. Mahallati's grandfather was a learned ayatollah who taught Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the father of Iran's Islamic revolution of 1979.
But the clerical profession in Iran is also surprisingly informal and democratic. No central authority grants theological students the right to don, or doff, clerical garb. There are no fixed rules or requirements for becoming an ayatollah or a hojatolislam. Still, making a man with no formal religious training a cleric overnight is unusual.
And it was done in part for a very temporal reason.
Even though the Islamic Republic confiscated vast swaths of property and countless businesses and homes from private owners at the beginning of the revolution, there is a strong tradition favoring private ownership. Powerful clerics often control profitable "endowments," charitable enterprises that help feed the poor.
Ayatollah Majdeddin Mahallati, Mr. Mahallati's father, built a seminary, a hospital, a mosque and free housing units for families that had lost their breadwinners, and founded a charity to provide social security payments to the poor. He willed his endowments to Amir, his eldest son.
That son said the primary reason he had become a cleric was "to fulfill a father's dying wish and to continue the charitable works of the family." But he acknowledged that if he had not moved to Shiraz and donned a turban and cloak, the endowments would have reverted to the Islamic Republic.
"If I hadn't taken over," he said, "the state would have stepped in. My father created these endowments, and so he had the right to say who should succeed him. And he chose me." He added that the endowments were deeply in debt.
So Mr. Mahallati came up with a comfortable compromise. For part of the year he would wear his clerical turban and robes and study, preach and advise the faithful in Shiraz, all the while running his father's enterprises. The other part of the year, he would dress in civilian garb. He would lecture, travel and promote Iranian and Islamic culture from his headquarters in a modern townhouse where he lives alone in suburban Maryland.
The arrangement allows him to maintain his legal resident status in the United States.
In Shiraz he has moved into his parents' house, where he lives with his mother, and keeps in touch with his American friends by mobile phone and e-mail. He studies Arabic and jurisprudence for three hours every day, and for several hours after that he receives visitors. He goes at noon to lead prayers at his grandfather's mosque; in the evening, at his father's mosque.
Mr. Mahallati admits that he is feeling his way in his new role. Shortly after he was made a cleric, he was visited by more than 100 people from Shiraz who told him that his father had traditionally given them a good lecture and a good meal. So the son arranged for a lavish dinner. He gave a long talk on an unusual subject, filmmaking.
"I told them that they had no excuse for denying their sons and daughters a world in the arts, and if they came to you and said they wanted to be actors or directors, you tell them to go wholeheartedly into these fields," he said. "I told them that preaching day and night to people does not work. You have to use the language of art and popular culture.
"And then I said to myself, 'Oh, my God, here are the heads of the most conservative families in Shiraz, and I'm promoting movies.' My language isn't clerical language."
Mr. Mahallati studied economics at the National University in Tehran, civil engineering at the University of Kansas, political economy at the University of Oregon and international relations at Columbia University. So when people come and ask him complicated questions about Islamic jurisprudence or alms-giving or how they should properly wash themselves, Mr. Mahallati admits that he often does not know what to say.
"Sometimes I say to myself, 'O.K., let me just use common sense.' Other times I say: 'I have to study the matter. Please come back tomorrow.' So far I haven't blown it."
There are other adjustments. When he was a diplomat, he was under strict instructions not to shake the hand of any woman who was not a close family member. A hand over the heart and a bow had to suffice. In private life in the United States, he has let common sense prevail. But now he will revert to the hand over the heart and the bow.
Even wearing the clerical robes took some adjustment. "You cannot walk fast in this clerical costume," he said. "It doesn't look good. The robe starts flapping in the air."
He still has to learn how to wrap a turban. For the moment, a friend wraps six of them at a time in advance, so he always has one ready to pop on. He is sometimes told that his neatly clipped beard is too short and his hair too long.
And he already senses that his once anonymous life has evaporated. One afternoon in Shiraz, when he sneaked out to an Internet cafe in his civilian garb, he was spotted by one of his father's followers, who called him by his religious title and told him how nice it was to see him.
"My cover was blown," Mr. Mahallati said. "The weight of the cloak can sometimes be very heavy."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Amir Mahallati in the garden of his home in Tehran. Recently ordained to a high clerical rank, he also lives in Shiraz, where he maintains his family's religious and philanthropic work, and in the United States. (Jamsheed Bairami for The New York Times)
 
Map of Tehran shows location of Shiraz: In Shiraz, the son of a beloved cleric is carrying on his work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN (91%); IRAQ (79%); 

CITY: SHIRAZ, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN (91%); IRAQ (79%); SHIRAZ, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); CHARITIES (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); WRITERS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); FAMILY (68%); POETRY (67%); 

PERSON: AMIR MAHALLATI (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2000



152 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: E.D.S. Wins Record $7 Billion Contract for Navy Computer Network

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
The largest information technology contract ever awarded by the government, worth nearly $7 billion, has been won by the Electronic Data Systems Corporation, the United States Navy said yesterday.
Electronic Data was chosen to build and maintain an internal computer network, the Navy-Marine Corps Intranet, to link sailors and Marines in the continental United States, Hawaii, Alaska, Puerto Rico, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba and Iceland. Ships at sea would be connected by satellites. 
 The award represents the first time a branch of the military has turned over to a private company the responsibility and risk of operating and maintaining its entire network of computer systems.
"The Navy and Marines are the first service branch to move to the private sector the intranet system, which is combining communications, desktop and software applications and doing it with information security," said William Dvoranchik, president of E.D.S. Federal, the subsidiary that deals with the government.
"This is an exciting and rewarding day for us," Richard Danzig, secretary of the Navy, said at a Pentagon news briefing yesterday afternoon.
The new system is expected to be fully operational by June 2003. The Defense Department looks at it as a model for the military. By 2020, the Pentagon plans to link its war-fighting and intelligence-gathering networks in a vast system it calls the Global Information Grid.
The announcement was made after the stock market close. During regular trading on the New York Stock Exchange, E.D.S. slumped $1.44, to $40.63. But the stock jumped $6.88, to about $47.50, in after-hours trading after the announcement.
The Navy picked Electronic Data over bids from the General Dynamics Corporation, the I.B.M. Corporation and the Computer Sciences Corporation.
E.D.S., which has had a slower rate of contract signings than its rivals, was understandably jubilant with the result.
"This is a great day for E.D.S.," said Richard H. Brown, the chairman and chief executive of the company, which is based in Plano, Tex. "We were selected because we are the best. And I think the experience we gain from this mega-contract will serve us well to compete for similar projects for the Army and the Air Force."
Wall Street analysts said they were somewhat surprised at the Navy's choice.
"For investors, this is a fairly significant upset," said Mark Wolfenberger, an analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston. "Generally speaking, people expected Computer Sciences would be the winning bidder, if only because they have had a closer relationship with the Defense Department. But it is interesting because Computer Sciences has done a lot of work for the Army, and this was a Navy contract."
Computer Sciences' shares gained $5.31, to $77.06, yesterday during regular trading, and dropped to $71, down $6.06, after hours.
"This is a testament to a much more competitive company," said Greg Gould, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Company. "It highlights their ability to close contracts, and positions them well."
The contract is for a guaranteed minimum of five years, with a possible extension of three years at a minimum of $2.8 billion for each of those three years. The overall contract could be worth as much as $16 billion over the eight years.
The Navy required that at least 35 percent of any business generated by the contract be earmarked for small businesses. Mr. Brown of E.D.S. said his company was committed to subcontracting 40 percent of the job to small businesses. A number of not-so-small subcontractors will also work on the project, a group that includes WorldCom, Cisco Systems, Dell Computer and Microsoft.
Once completed, the Navy-Marine Corps system will allow, for instance, maintenance workers in a faraway country to pinpoint the availability of an airplane part anywhere in the Navy or Marine Corps system, or to contact the part manufacturer online.
Secretary Danzig said the Navy was now spending about $1.6 billion a year on information services "in piecemeal kinds of ways."
"We could achieve extraordinary economies of scale by buying in one central entity, in one central way, managing this centrally," he said.
By the Navy's estimates, the new system will generate about $400 million a year in annual savings.
Mr. Brown said the system would save the Navy as much as $1 billion a year. "In our proposal, we said we could save them the equivalent of a battleship a year," he said. "This is a no-brainer financially for them to do this."
Mr. Brown said the contract would not have an impact on the bottom line at Electronic Data until 2002.
"In the latter half of 2001, you will start to see revenue pickup," he said. "But it will be full blown in 2002."
Including the Navy contract, E.D.S. has booked more than $26 billion in contracts this year, Mr. Gould from Goldman, Sachs said. That surpasses the record $25 billion in business the company booked in 1999. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSC (NYSE) (85%); GD (NYSE) (66%); CSGN (SWX) (51%); CS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (91%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (91%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (91%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (91%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (85%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (66%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC6361 TITLE INSURANCE (65%); SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (64%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ICELAND (91%); CUBA (90%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (91%); COMPUTER SCIENCES CORP (85%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (66%); M CORP (65%); H BROWN LTD (64%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (51%); US NAVY (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ICELAND (91%); CUBA (90%); ALASKA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NAVIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (89%); CONTRACT AWARDS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ARMIES (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); SHIPBUILDING (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); AIR FORCES (72%); INTRANETS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2000



153 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE BUDGET SURPLUS;
Tax Cuts and Spending Plans Aside, Is Money There?

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 6

 BODY:
In setting out their agendas, Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush are counting on nearly $4.6 trillion in projected federal budget surpluses. Given the zeal with which they are apportioning still-hypothetical money, it may be worth asking a few questions:
Will the surplus materialize as predicted? 
 If it does, how much of it will really be available for the types of new initiatives the candidates are proposing?
And how long will it last?
The Congressional Budget Office tackled the last question in a study released today. It warned that although the fiscal outlook for the next decade or so is bright and getting brighter, the picture over the longer run remains troubled, even dire.
The first two questions are entangled in a fierce debate. The government has run surpluses for the past several years, and there is nothing on the horizon to suggest that they will not continue. Indeed, all the evidence now indicates that the surplus projections will be increased next year because of the economy's continued strength.
On the other hand, it was only five years ago that deficits were assumed to be a permanent fixture of the economy.
"Both campaigns are using the best forecasting techniques available," said Stanley Collender, managing director of the federal budget consulting group at Fleischman Hillard, the public relations firm. "Having said that, those techniques have proven to be consistently and completely wrong."
Even if all the money comes in as expected, there are claims on it beyond those being made by the presidential candidates. The affordability of the plans offered by Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush will come into focus only as Congress and the next administration sort out their priorities.
However much skepticism is warranted, the federal government has never confronted even the likelihood of such fiscal plenty.
After decades in which both parties chafed under the restrictions imposed by budget deficits, it was inevitable that both would embrace the pot of gold placed before them by the strong economy.
Yet it is remarkable in some ways that the two candidates have pledged to use a little more than half of it to pay down the national debt and shore up Social Security, two interrelated issues that have no immediate political payoff.
"I would use somewhat less money than either candidate for tax cuts or spending," said Carol Cox Wait, president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, a group advocating fiscal discipline. "But for us budgeteers to get on a high horse and say they should be even more restrained ignores the way politics and campaigns work in this country."
In the study it released today, the Congressional Budget Office said that by using the portion of the surplus generated by Social Security -- nearly $2.4 trillion over the next decade -- to pay down the debt, the government would postpone its long-term fiscal problems but by no means eliminate them.
Mr. Gore has called for using nearly all of the Social Security surplus for debt reduction. Mr. Bush would use $1 trillion of it to help establish personal investment accounts within Social Security.
Assuming that the entire Social Security surplus goes to debt reduction, the budget office found that the government would run surpluses until around 2020 and then would start running rapidly escalating deficits as the cost of paying Social Security and Medicare benefits to an aging population began to mount.
By 2040, the budget office found, the rising deficits would have driven that part of the national debt held by the public back up to levels it has not reached since the years immediately after World War II. The situation will be far worse if the Social Security surplus is not put to debt reduction, the study said.
"Saving most or all of the budget surpluses that C.B.O. projects over the next 10 years -- using them to pay down debt -- would have a positive impact on the projections and substantially delay the emergence of a serious fiscal imbalance," the study said.
"Yet under most of the assumptions C.B.O. used, a fiscal imbalance eventually develops whether or not surpluses are realized," it said. "If the nation's leaders do not change current policies to eliminate that imbalance, federal deficits are likely to reappear and eventually drive federal debt to unsustainable levels."
Even if the economy holds up and tax revenues keep flowing in as anticipated, there is a case to be made that much of the money has already been allocated.
The surplus projections being used by the candidates -- those developed this summer by the Congressional Budget Office -- assume that government spending will grow at the rate of inflation. But the two parties in Congress and President Clinton are in the process of agreeing on spending increases this year that are far in excess of inflation.
Alan J. Auerbach of the University of California and William G. Gale of the Brookings Institution concluded in a recent study that even if the budget office's $4.6 trillion, 10-year surplus projection was right, the two parties really had less than 10 percent of it to fight over during the next decade.
The Social Security surplus of $2.4 trillion has already been taken off the table for tax cuts or spending. Of the remaining $2.2 trillion, $864 billion would be used up if Congress just held spending at its current level relative to gross domestic product, a reasonable assumption given what the two parties plan to spend this year, their study said.
Another $360 billion would be set aside to meet a call from both parties to wall off excess Medicare revenues. Dealing with several bipartisan tax priorities would eat up another $155 billion. Once some other issues were dealt with, the remaining surplus would be only $352 billion over 10 years, they concluded.
Mr. Gore's tax and spending proposals come to $1.5 trillion. Mr. Bush's total $1.9 trillion.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: A Short-Lived Surplus"
The Congressional Budget Office released a study yesterday examining the federal government's long-term financial condition. It concluded that despite the substantial increase in the projected surplus for the next decade, the situation in subsequent decades would deteriorate rapidly. Assuming that the portion of the surplus generated by Social Security is used to reduce the national debt, Washington would run a surplus until about 2020 but then would fall back into deficit spending.
 
Graph tracks Budget surpluses and deficits as percentage of Gross Domestic Product since 1999.
 
Graph tracks Debt held by the public as percentage of Gross Domestic Product since 1999.
 
*Negative debt represents nonfederal assets held by the government.
(Source: Congressional Budget Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); POLITICS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2000



154 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Rate Fell to 3.9% In September

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Unemployment fell to 3.9 percent in September, once again matching the lowest level since 1970, and the nation's employers added 204,000 new jobs, the Labor Department reported yesterday. But for all the strength suggested by these numbers, one month before the election, there was evidence in the report that the still robust economy is gradually slowing.
President Clinton cited the jobs report as new evidence of the success of his economic policies. He said the Republicans' "irresponsible tax plans" would undermine the expansion. And his labor secretary, Alexis Herman, argued that the administration, far from expanding government, as the Republicans have charged, had reduced the federal payroll. 
 The decrease in unemployment from 4.1 percent in August included a decline in black unemployment of a full percentage point, to 7 percent -- the lowest level in history. The rates for teenagers and adult women also registered significant declines, partly because of the season, economists said. Many teenagers returned to school, dropping out of the labor force, and mothers went back to work after having taken the summer off to be with their vacationing children.
Both the job growth and the unemployment rate came in better than most economists had expected, and stronger than in August. But for many economists, the strength in September was more an anomaly than the beginning of a rebound after months of declining job creation.
"We are in an economic slowdown," said Mickey Levy, chief economist at Bank of America. "Employers are clearly holding back on hiring, and adding hours much more slowly for those on their payrolls."
Job growth last month actually totaled 252,000, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported. But that included the return to work of 75,000 striking workers, mostly from Verizon, and a decline of 27,000 in the ranks of temporary census workers. The net growth was 204,000 after adjusting for these factors.
Still, that was much better than August, when 91,000 jobs disappeared, mainly because so many census workers left, and even in the private sector, job growth totaled only 17,000.
The Clinton administration made the most of the improvement. "This is more good news for the American people," President Clinton said. And Ms. Herman, clearly addressing the Republicans, proclaimed that "the era of big government is over and has been over." The federal payroll, she said, has shrunk by 320,000, to 2.6 million, since Mr. Clinton took office in 1993.
The Republicans responded in kind. "The single biggest cause for the decline in federal employment is cutbacks at the Pentagon," said Ari Fleischer, a spokesman for Gov. George W. Bush, the Republican candidate for president. "It gives a wrongful impression to the American people to suggest that the government is shrinking when it is the Defense Department that is shrinking."
He also attributed the low unemployment rate "to the entrepreneurial activity of the private sector," not government action.
For the year as a whole, job growth in both the public and private sector has averaged 192,000 a month, compared with 220,000 in the first nine months of last year. Private- sector employment has registered a similar decline. This year the unemployment rate has moved in a narrow range between 3.9 percent and 4.1 percent, having first fallen in April to 3.9 percent, the lowest level since January 1970.
The Federal Reserve has argued that the nation is in danger of an inflationary spiral as employers bid for scarce workers by raising wages and then increase prices to pay the higher labor costs. After the Fed's policy makers met on Tuesday, they said that they were more likely to raise interest rates than lower them in the future because of the tight labor markets.
But the wage pressure has not yet appeared. In September, the average hourly pay of production workers -- constituting roughly 80 percent of the 131.8 million people employed in September -- rose only 3 cents, to $13.83. Over the last year, the hourly wage has risen a mild 3.6 percent.
Stock prices fell yesterday, as they often do when a strong jobs report suggests that the Fed might raise interest rates in the future. But economists attributed the decline much more to damage from higher energy prices and the expectations on Wall Street of weaker profit growth in the just-ended third quarter.
"Anytime the economy shifts gears and begins to slow, there is anxiety and uncertainty," said Richard Rippe, chief economist at Prudential Securities. "You don't know how much the decline will be."
The September employment report fed the anxiety. While there was strong job creation in the service sector, manufacturers reduced their payrolls by 66,000 people, after cutting 117,000 jobs in August. Unable to raise prices, manufacturers, which typically are big users of energy, are offsetting higher oil and gas costs by trimming their work forces, said Gordon Richards, chief economist at the National Association of Manufacturers. In addition, a strong dollar and weak euro have hurt exports, Mr. Gordon said. And companies have cut production and laid off workers while they reduce excessive inventories.
In the service sector, temporary- help agencies led in job creation, adding 69,000 jobs in September. Payrolls also grew strongly in construction, health care, mortgage banking and job training. But the growth in some cases had more to do with abnormal seasonal variations that are likely to disappear next month, said Thomas L. Nardone, chief of the division at the Bureau of Labor Statistics that compiles the monthly employment reports.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics adjusts its monthly figures to allow for seasonal variations, but that process sometimes turns an actual decline in jobs into job growth. That was the case in September.
Retailers, in contrast to the service sector, have failed to expand payrolls through most of the summer, a stagnation that some experts attribute to weaker consumer demand, partly because of the energy shock and partly because of rising interest rates.
"They see that if they are going to have to spend more on gas and heating fuel, they are going to spend less on other things, even if they see the energy crisis as temporary," said Richard Curtin, chief of the University of Michigan's consumer surveys.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Consumer Borrowing"
Net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding; in billions of dollars seasonally adjusted.
 
Chart track total consumer installment credit outstanding; in billions of dollars seasonally adjusted since March 1999.
(Source: Federal Reserve Board)(pg. C4)
 
Chart: "The Labor Picture in September"
Chart lists several labor statistics for the month of September.
(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (54%); BAC (LSE) (54%); 8648 (TSE) (54%); VZC (LSE) (53%); VZ (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (54%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); LABOR FORCE (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); EVIDENCE (77%); CENSUS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); CHILDREN (73%); STATISTICS (73%); STRIKES (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2000



155 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: As Affluent Nassau Faces Debt Troubles, All Sides Ask Why

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., Oct. 5

 BODY:
Nassau County is attracting rubberneckers, and not just those crawling past accidents on the Long Island Expressway. Like a suicide in high society, the county, in its current fallen financial state, brings out a morbid curiosity among finance experts, academics, politicians and, closest to home, residents themselves.
What could have gone so terribly wrong, they wonder? How could a rich county in an economic boom end up with a bond rating one notch above junk, flirting with bankruptcy and in the same predicament as some hapless upstate industrial cities or 
 New York City during the darkest moments of its fiscal crisis?
Experts on municipal finance and commuters at bus stops all have their thoughts, touching on points that often have as much to do with psychology as money matters.
"It's unfair to blame the county executive for the entire mess," said Richard Himelfarb, an associate professor of political science at Hofstra University, in response to the frequently voiced view that Thomas S. Gulotta, who has led the county for the last 13 years, is, along with county legislators, responsible for the county's predicament. "The fact is, ultimately these people were being re-elected time after time by the people. To the extent that anyone has fallen asleep at the switch, it's the people."
He added: "The most baffling question to me as a political scientist is why this affluent and well-educated group of people is willing to tolerate a degree of corruption and a degree of mismanagement you really don't see in the United States. In many cases, that's reserved for the third world."
Most municipal financial disasters are caused by external factors: recessions, a disintegrating tax base or an investment adviser run amok. But the litany of Nassau's scapegoats is long and keeps growing from within, like a tumor: deficit spending, inadequate tax increases, expensive union contracts, imperfect politicians, the political complacency that can come with privilege, and, surprisingly, a healthy economy that for years kept the problems from erupting.
The county faces an $81.7 million budget deficit this year and a shortfall of up to $379.6 million by 2004, according to Frank Zarb, head of the Nassau Interim Finance Authority. The state-appointed group will take over the county's financial operations if, by the end of the month, Nassau fails to balance its 2001 budget and fails to produce a plan to reduce its deficits in future years.
A survey of 400 Nassau County voters at the beginning of September found that they thought that budget problems and government mismanagement were the county's biggest problems.
The survey of Nassau voters, by the Kitchens Group of Maitland, Fla., found that a "staggering" 71 percent of Nassau voters would prefer a tax increase to eliminating family service programs, which are at risk of being cut. And 62 percent said an income tax would be the fairest tax, because more money is paid by the people who make the most.
But in interviews, residents of Nassau County, where the average home sells for $254,500, have varied views on the way out of the mess.
At the Long Island Bus station in Hempstead, Georgina Willie, a retiree who lives in Hempstead, said today: "They need to do something that would not hit on the homeowners. We're the ones who work every day. Gulotta needs to do something. He's the one at the top that we blame."
Jacqueline Ruffin, a grocery store cashier from Roosevelt, was also waiting for a bus. "If it were for a better, safe neighborhood, I could see paying an extra $100 in taxes," said Ms. Ruffin, who leaves at 5:30 a.m. to get to work. But does she believe new taxes would be spent that way? "No, definitely not," she said.
At Pennsylvania Station on Wednesday, commuters waiting for the Long Island Rail Road voiced a similar cynicism about the county's ability to use a tax increase responsibly. But some found it hard not to place blame on the county's fabled Republican political machine, now under assault after decades of one-party rule.
"They've been living on next year's revenue; I really think that's the biggest problem," said Jerry Mantell, a bridal designer from Cedarhurst. "I think it's bad management. You've had one party in there too long, and it leads to all those things. And I'm a Republican."
Nearby, Berry Coles, a social worker from North Merrick, said it was time for Mr. Gulotta to move on. "I just don't see where he's made any dramatic changes," he said. "I don't think he's putting money in the right places."
Bill Morrogh, an information systems director from Wantagh, said, "The financial control board should take over, because the politicians are incapable of cutting the patronage and waste." As for any tax increases, he added, "They're not going to kill me, but the waste will."
Jude Alexis, a computer programmer from Old Westbury, said he could support a targeted tax increase to save the county. "It would preferably be for people who can afford it," he said, adding that he would pay a tax increase to support the upcoming police contracts.
Ray Horton, who was executive director of the Temporary Commission on New York City Finances during the city's financial crisis in the mid-1970's, suggested some strategies for reducing the county's labor costs.
"You can either reduce the number of employees or figure out some way to avoid cockamamie contract increases," he said, referring to a proposed raise for Nassau County police, already among the nation's highest paid. "You can give the union its choice: if they want a five-year, 22 percent increase, fine, but you're going to fund it by firing whatever percentage of the police force you're required to fire to break even on labor costs. It's hard politically, but it's manageable where there's a will."
Eleanor D. Craig, associate chairwoman of the department of economics at the University of Delaware and an expert in municipal finance, said that frequently when municipalities, counties, cities or states were in crisis, they were trying to spend their way into more terms. "They've taken on programs and built things they wouldn't have built if hadn't been trying to buy the votes," she said.
Phoebe Goodman, executive director of the Nassau Citizens Budget Committee, said many of the current problems were caused by county politicians who had been reluctant to take the difficult but necessary step of reassessing property, cutting down on costly tax rebates, because they feared "that they wouldn't be loved anymore and might lose office."
She added: "We do have a very effective machine here, and its sole purpose to the naked eye seems to be to keep re-electing themselves, to be in power in order to stay in power. I don't think anybody understood just how bad it was. When the rating services a year and a half ago dropped the credit rating, that's what finally woke everybody up."
H. Carl McCall, the state comptroller, served on the oversight boards that brought Troy and Yonkers out of financial crises. He recalled how Nassau and Suffolk Counties were in similar fiscal distress in 1992, seeking help from the state.
"Suffolk County went forward to do the right kinds of things, the right financial practices, and now they're in good shape, and Nassau County had a very ruinous approach to fiscal management," he said. "I think this can all rest squarely on the shoulders of the county executive."
Mr. McCall saw parallels between Nassau's situation and the biblical story of the man who gave his various servants sums of money, which some invested profitably, but which one buried in the earth, angering the master.
He chastised the servant and sent him away amid weeping and the gnashing of teeth, Mr. McCall said.
"I think there needs to be some chastisement in Nassau before we forgive them," Mr. McCall said.
"They used more financial gimmicks than we have seen anywhere else in the country, they have an inefficient and unfair taxation system, and they supported that with borrowed money. Everybody simply brushed aside the criticisms and continued to say, 'Look, everything's fine.' "
In Nassau County, Mr. McCall said, "If the public was aware of how bad things were, they would've reacted sooner; a lot of this was disguised."
But even after the strongest wake-up call, at least one academic had trouble believing the extent of the fiscal emergency. Professor Himelfarb remembers when he first heard that the county's bonds had been downgraded to a step above a junk rating.
"I was driving on the road, through Great Neck, and there were all of these people in Mercedeses and Corvettes," he said. "I remember thinking, 'How the heck could this happen here?' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Berry Coles, a social worker from North Merrick, N.Y., said the county executive has not been "putting money in the right places." (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Jerry Mantell, a bridal designer, attributed Nassau County's problems to having one political party in power for too long. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (56%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (56%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (87%); SUICIDE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); BONDS (71%); CITY LIFE (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); VOTERS & VOTING (63%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (50%); 

PERSON: THOMAS S GULOTTA (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2000



156 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Studies Find Race Disparities in Texas Traffic Stops

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Oct. 6

 BODY:
Black and Hispanic motorists across Texas are more than twice as likely as non-Hispanic whites to be searched during traffic stops while black drivers in certain rural areas of the state are also far more likely to be ticketed, according to two studies examining possible racial profiling.
The investigations by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and by The Dallas Morning News were released this week and brought an immediate challenge from the Texas Department of Public Safety. State officials described the Morning News study as flawed, citing other statistics in denying that the agency practiced racial profiling. 
 The investigations were undertaken after complaints in Texas and other states.
Gary Bledsoe, state president of the N.A.A.C.P., said he believed that the two reports proved that minority drivers were singled out by many law enforcement officers. "The data are very clear," said Mr. Bledsoe, an Austin lawyer who said he had been stopped but not ticketed nearly 20 times during the past decade. "This is a clear indication of racial profiling. It's definitely happening."
The two studies used the same raw data but focused on different time periods and used different experts to tabulate the numbers. The studies centered on two fundamental issues: the number of minorities ticketed and the number of minorities searched during traffic stops.
The Morning News, which published its investigation on Wednesday, examined roughly 895,000 traffic tickets written by state troopers last year. The figures were analyzed by a University of Texas mathematics professor.
Looking at the state as a whole, the newspaper concluded that blacks and Hispanics received tickets at rates that actually were proportional to their driving-age populations. But disparities emerged when the study examined different regions of the state. In many rural counties blacks were nearly twice as likely as non-Hispanic whites to be ticketed. Of the 193 counties analyzed, blacks received more tickets than expected in 84 counties. There were some counties where whites received a higher-than-expected number of tickets, but in those cases the disparity was not as great.
James B. Francis, board chairman of the Department of Public Safety, said the Morning News analysis was flawed because it compared the race and number of ticketed drivers with the local population where the stop occurred. But, he said, it did not consider that the drivers might be from elsewhere. "I'm not going to start a massive investigation unless and until there is some indication that something is going on," Mr. Francis said.
On Tuesday, Mr. Bledsoe released the N.A.A.C.P. findings at a news conference in Austin. The report, prepared by two professors of economics and statistics, analyzed 65,000 traffic stops from March and found that blacks were searched twice as often as non-Hispanic whites while Hispanics were searched two and a half times as often. The study also concluded that search rates were even higher for minority males -- with Hispanic men four times as likely as non-Hispanic whites to be searched and black men two and a half times as likely.
Mike Cox, a public safety spokesman, declined to comment and steered any questions to a report about traffic stops posted this week on the agency's Web site. In March, the department began collecting data on traffic stops, requesting that officers collect information like a driver's race and sex. The initiative began after the public safety department suspended seven officers in East Texas for racial insensitivity. After this incident, Mr. Francis, the board chairman, declared there would be "zero tolerance" for discrimination within the ranks.
The statistics on the internal report, which are based on five months of data from this year, reveal two primary findings, one suggesting that racial profiling does not occur and the other suggesting that it does. First, the state report found that non-Hispanic whites constituted a higher rate of overall traffic stops (68.12 percent) than their estimated statewide population (60.69 percent). Blacks and Hispanics, the report states, are actually stopped at lower rates than their overall populations.
But the state statistics also show that blacks and Hispanics are twice as likely as non-Hispanic whites to be searched during stops, a finding similar to those of the N.A.A.C.P. and The Morning News. The state report explained the high number of Hispanics who were searched as a byproduct of the traffic of illegal immigrants and drugs from Mexico. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (95%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (58%); DALLAS MORNING NEWS INC (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); TEXAS, USA (95%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RACIAL PROFILING (92%); RACE & RACISM (91%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COUNTIES (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); LAWYERS (70%); DRIVING AGE (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

PERSON: JAMES B FRANCIS (67%); GARY BLEDSOE (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2000



157 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: Journal;
The Bland Leading the Bland

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
It would be "make or break." It would be Kennedy-Nixon. Bush might drool. Gore might explode. At MSNBC, the breathless anchor predicted an audience "as high as 90 million" -- 10 million more than the record set by Reagan-Carter in '80. Democracy in action, baby!
Well, that was Tuesday. By Wednesday it was clear that there hasn't been this much hype for a flop show since the Olympics. The first great debate didn't make or break anything except the viewer's patience. No Bush malapropisms. No over-the-top Gore attacks. No eloquence. Not only was this no Kennedy-Nixon, it wasn't even Bentsen-Quayle. And the audience? A mere 46 million, according to Nielsen. MSNBC's prediction, echoed everywhere, including The Times, was off by 50 percent. 
 Still, I wouldn't have missed the debate for anything. Though it added exactly zero to our knowledge of either Al Gore or George W. Bush, it is a keeper for any time capsule of America 2000. At a cultural moment when many voters are forced constantly to make that hard choice between the Gap and Banana Republic, what is more apt than the spectacle of two princely boomers in identical outfits hypothesizing about how to spend a surplus of infinitely elastic trillions that both assume will last indefinitely? Now that branding and marketing are the national ideology -- and focus groups have a clout unmatched by labor unions or the religious right -- what could be more fitting than a debate in which not a single word is uttered that hasn't been pre-tested more rigorously than a McDonald's breakfast sandwich rollout?
There was almost a Platonic perfection to the event's complete insulation from even the possibility of spontaneity, let alone the rude intrusion of present-day reality. You could watch all 90 minutes -- I'm not sure too many did -- and never know of bloodshed in the Middle East, or of a drug war run amok, or of an America populated by anyone other than the elderly and schoolchildren. The only comic relief was not Mr. Bush's lame jokes (by the same hand that wrote his wisecrack about David Letterman's open-heart surgery?) but both candidates' response to Jim Lehrer's question of how they might respond to an economic crisis. These are men who have never known bad times; neither had an answer. In this sense, too, the debate encapsulated a boom in which hardship is for many forgetful Americans only a theoretical possibility.
Though Mr. Bush is fond of boasting that he's a man of principle, not "polling and focus groups," he was just as scripted as his opponent -- no small feat. Mr. Gore's hit parade of tested buzz words and phrases -- "middle class" (10 mentions), "wealthiest 1 percent" (10), "lockbox" (7) -- was nearly matched by Mr. Bush's Pavlovian references to bringing "Republicans and Democrats" together (9) and "fuzzy" math (4). There were five times when the governor tried to prove his credentials as a leader by telling us what governors do, as in the "governor is the chief executive officer and learns how to set agendas," and "governors are oftentimes found on the front line of catastrophic situations." While Mr. Bush may spare us Mr. Gore's insufferable, schoolmarmish tone, his "affable" alternative is to speak to us as if we've all been held back together with him in grade school.
Even more revealing was what polling and focus groups told the two men not to say. Mr. Bush won't use the word "vouchers" (though he's in favor of them) or "impeachment" (though he was presumably in favor of that too). In a real debate, surely the Texas governor would bring up the signature issue of his party for the past four years, and Mr. Gore's contemporaneous contention that Bill Clinton "will be regarded in the history books as one of our greatest presidents." But no. Polling says that any criticism of an opponent will be perceived by Oprah-fied women as a "personal attack," so even Mr. Bush's mention of the Buddhist temple arrived tentatively, late in the game.
Mr. Gore is just as cautious. The Texas governor presents himself as a guardian of education and health care, but if you turn to his own campaign's official Web site, you'll find that his so-called rebuttals of embarrassing facts about his Texas -- 48th in per-capita spending for public health and 41st in per-capita spending on public education, first in uninsured children -- rely on fuzzy, often bogus comparisons and irrelevant math. But like the Clinton presidency, Mr. Bush's Texas record is off-limits because polling shows that an attack on an opponent's public record is now also considered "personal."
Since both men are so straitjacketed by self-censorship, how could the debate have possibly advanced the story line? It's the bland leading the bland. No wonder that the soporific vice-presidential sequel was widely overpraised by contrast -- the guys at least sounded like free-speaking human beings. (And give Dick Cheney bonus points for being the only man on either ticket not to wear a red tie and white shirt.) No wonder, too, that young voters ignore debates, skip elections and seek out an alternative culture where people say what they mean. A steady diet of Bush-Gore could drive anyone to Eminem.
With the exception of Dan Rather -- who alone among TV heavies had the guts to pronounce the presidential face-off "pedantic, dull, unimaginative, lackluster, humdrum, you pick the word" -- the bloviators were as rigid in analyzing the debate as its combatants were in waging it. They focused on the twin plot lines that had been hyped in advance -- would Gore be too mean? would Bush commit a gaffe? -- and adjudicated the "winner" accordingly. (Since neither man committed the predicted sins, the verdicts were vague and divided.) Much as some at first missed the significance of Rick Lazio's paper-wielding stunt in his debate with Hillary Clinton, male pundits may have underrated the one moment in the Bush-Gore debate that might actually have moved some of those undecided suburban swing-state women voters said to hold the Electoral College's key.
The moment came when Mr. Bush told a Gore-like whopper, fudging his previous stand in favor of trying to thwart the F.D.A.'s approval of RU-486, the abortion pill. Planned Parenthood polling shows that undecided Republican and independent women in states like Florida, Michigan and Missouri are disproportionately pro-choice and disproportionately likely to choose a candidate on that issue -- but that many of them don't yet know that Mr. Bush is both anti-choice and (despite his professed desire to make abortion "more rare") hostile to family planning. The Bush campaign has no doubt seen similar polling, as evidenced not only by its man's evasive debate answer but also by his decision a week earlier to announce his initial stand against RU-486 by press release rather than on camera.
Otherwise, there was no discernible movement -- nor could there be. Mr. Bush remains a conventional anti-tax, small-government Republican with the hard-right edges sanded down; Mr. Gore remains a conventional Democratic believer in governmental activism, though with any traces of leftist grandiosity muted into earth tones. G.O.P.-lite, Democrat-lite: For the 95 percent of the country unwilling to go for Ralph Nader or Pat Buchanan, that is the choice, it always has been the choice, and it will still be the choice on Nov. 7. Dueling prescription-drug plans -- both likely to be folded into a compromise by a divided Congress anyway -- hardly alter the equation. And if character counts most, that, too, isn't changing. Mr. Bush is still an entitled, hail-fellow-well-met American blueblood who has coasted through life with the right name and its attendant connections. Mr. Gore is still the overcalculating child of the expediencies of Washington, where no principle is written in stone for longer than a polling cycle.
The only hope for a real shake-up in this tale is a true October surprise that can't be greeted with pre-fab language -- perhaps a shocking F.B.I. resolution to the question of who mailed a Bush debate preparation tape to the Gore camp. (Please say it wasn't Wen Ho Lee.) Short of that, much of the audience will skip the next two exchanges of rehearsed sound bites between the candidates, no matter how much they are hyped as "make or break." There's no need to settle for reruns now that there's a new season of "The West Wing."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (68%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (75%); 

COMPANY: BANANA REPUBLIC (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (75%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (71%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); FAST FOOD (69%); FOCUS GROUPS (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%); BRANDING (50%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (50%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); DAVID LETTERMAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2000



158 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Demurs on Drug Imports and Cuba

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ and STEVEN A. HOLMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 6

 BODY:
President Clinton expressed reservations today about Republican proposals to allow wholesalers to re-import low-cost American-made prescription drugs and to ease trade sanctions on Cuba, a day after House and Senate negotiators approved both proposals.
Mr. Clinton also chastised Republican leaders for disregarding House and Senate votes favoring a measure to make hate-motivated attacks on gays a federal crime and instead rejecting the proposal during internal budget negotiations. 
 "It was plain wrong," he said. "I pledge to keep fighting for hate crimes legislation this year."
Late Thursday evening, House and Senate negotiators approved language on a larger agriculture spending bill to permit the sale of food, medicine and fertilizer to Cuba, Iran, Sudan, Libya and North Korea. But, in the case of Cuba, the bill would place severe restrictions on financing, prohibiting both American banks and the government from extending credit or loans.
Cuba, a poor country, would either have to pay in cash or secure a loan from a foreign bank, most probably at high interest rates.
The proposal would also turn into law existing regulations that bar American tourists from Cuba.
Farmers, agribusiness and pharmaceutical companies had lobbied heavily for opening these markets in Cuba and the other countries. The pressure to act was acute among farm state Republicans.
But two Republican Cuban-American lawmakers from Florida, a major battleground in the November election, managed to win major concessions from Republican leaders on financing and on travel to Cuba.
Mr. Clinton said today that he was not sure the bill would really help farmers.
"What I have been told," he said, "is it looks like it eases the embargo on food and medicine, but it probably doesn't very much, because it doesn't provide any financing credits, which we give to other poor countries.
"It certainly restricts in, I think, a completely unwarranted way, the ability of the United States to make travel decisions on policy that I do not believe should be made, written in law, in stone by the Congress. I think it's wrong."
Farmers stand to benefit most from exports of food and medicine to Iran, Sudan, Libya and North Korea. The president can, through waivers, permit American banks and the government to finance those exports.
Mr. Clinton also said he was "deeply disappointed" by the Republican plan to permit the re-importing of prescription drugs. Though made in the United States, the drugs are cheaper in foreign countries because of overseas laws that limit their prices.
Republicans and Democrats had been holding bipartisan meetings on the issue, but on Wednesday, Republicans broke away and wrote their own legislation, which they say addressed many Democratic concerns.
The bill includes a five-year expiration date and language that Democrats say is too fuzzy and would give drug makers too much power. The bill, Mr. Clinton said, "is more acceptable to the drug companies, all right," but does little to help the elderly and others who cannot afford drugs.
While saying he was still reviewing the language, he urged Congress to "work in a genuine spirit of bipartisanship."
On a separate bill, Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, said the Senate would not try to override the president's expected veto of a $23.6 billion measure to finance energy and water projects.
Mr. Clinton has objected to a provison in the bill forbidding the Army Corp of Engineers to study the possibility of increasing spring water flows on the Missouri River and decreasing them in the summer. The idea of changing the flows was to protect three threatened species: the piping plover, the least tern and the pallid sturgeon. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN CUBAN-AMERICAN (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LEGISLATION (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); LOBBYING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); CRIMINAL LAW (76%); BUDGETS (76%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); AGRICULTURE (69%); FERTILIZERS (69%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (69%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2000



159 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1580 words

HEADLINE: China Rushes to Adopt Genetically Modified Crops

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: SHAHEXIN VILLAGE, China

 BODY:
Until Monsanto introduced a genetically altered cotton plant here in the buckle on the Chinese Cotton Belt three years ago, farmers like Ma Yuzhuo sprayed their fields with tons of organophosphate pesticides to kill bollworms, grubs that feed on immature cotton bolls.
So toxic is the compound, which is similar to the basic ingredient of nerve gas, that many people die from exposure to it each year, though the government will not disclose the number of fatalities. 
 But the Monsanto cotton plant, known by the brand name of its seed, Bollgard, carries a gene from a common family of bacteria called bacillus thuringiensis, or Bt. The Bt gene makes the plant produce a protein toxic to bollworms, reducing the need for spraying pesticides, raising yields and allowing Mr. Ma to survive. "I don't understand it, but I know it works," he said, poring over his thigh-high plants for bollworms.
Bioengineered crops are not grown much in Western Europe and have raised safety concerns in the United States. But China has embraced them, growing cotton and other crops faster than any other Asian nation.
Saving lives is one motivation. But saving its farm economy is the chief concern. China hopes that genetics can save farmers like Mr. Ma from devastation by helping produce lower-cost high-quality products after it joins the World Trade Organization.
Chinese farmland is fragmented into tiny plots, each worked by several people, and the cost to grow a bushel of wheat, rice or corn is higher than in the United States or Europe. After China joins the W.T.O., a move that will wipe out many import restrictions on foreign agricultural products, the country's slender farm incomes will shrink even more than they already have from falling grain prices and rising expenses.
China's rush to genetic crops is part of a broader effort to co-opt the new science as China's own before it is dominated by the West, as has occurred with other technologies. The initiative dates from the Reagan-era Strategic Defense Initiative, which poured billions of dollars into high-technology research in the 80's with the goal of building a space-based missile-defense system.
Startled by the prospect that America would forever dominate the planet because of its superior technology, Deng Xiaoping called for a Chinese response. A result was the 863 Project, so named because it started in March 1986.
Beijing called in its top scientists from around the world and set them working on seven broad areas. Genetic engineering was at the top of the list. Since then, the double helix has replaced the atom as the symbol of the modernization drive.
Laboratories around the country are aiming their gene guns at pig and goat cells in hopes of developing pharmaceutical proteins and transplantable organs for humans or injecting pollen grains with DNA to produce virus-resistant papayas, potatoes, tobacco and tomatoes. One man is working on cloning the fast-disappearing panda.
Among the people summoned by Mr. Deng was Chen Zhanliang, who was working in a Monsanto-financed laboratory at the University of St. Louis. He was put in charge of developing transgenic plants other than cotton. In that process, scientists transplant genes into the recipient plant's DNA.
"This is the biggest research grant in the history of Chinese molecular biology," Mr. Chen said.
His panel gives money to more than 150 laboratories that are working on projects like drought-resistant rice and corn with high oil levels.
China was the first in the world to grow genetically engineered crops commercially, starting with virus-resistant tobacco plants in northeastern Liaoning Province in 1988. Since 1997, Beijing has approved the release of more than 100 genetically altered crops, double the number released in the United States. Several, including slow-ripening tomatoes and virus-resistant green peppers, are in commercial production and have entered the food supply.
"Quality improvement is the first focus, because when you get rich you get picky," Mr. Chen said, noting that not only does the Chinese diet now include more grain-fed meat, but increasingly sophisticated palates are also demanding better-tasting grain. "More and more people like to eat rice that's a little sticky, for example, and that's something controlled by a gene."
Despite predictions in the mid-80's that the growing population would eventually overtake China's ability to feed itself, self-sufficiency is not much of a concern anymore. The country is sitting on mountains of surplus grain and can no longer buy all that its farmers grow. But because production costs are high and quality is poor, not much can be profitably exported. Much of it rots in temporary granaries.
Inexpensive high-quality foreign grain, meanwhile, threatens to erode further the farmers' glutted home market. Though China is one of the biggest soybean growers, it buys American beans, because they are higher in protein and richer in oil than homegrown beans. Most imported soybeans are pressed for cooking oil and ground into feed for hogs and chickens destined for export or to satisfy the Chinese people's growing appetite for meat. To face competition from American meat, even more stockyards will need better grain for feed.
One of the biggest gene-transplanting efforts focuses on rice, the world's most widely consumed grain. Rice is the first crop to be completely genetically decoded, thanks to Monsanto, which sponsored the work and made the results public. China is the No. 1 producer. But its methods are inefficient, and the quality of its rice is often poor.
Chinese geneticists are identifying the functions of specific genes and will soon create rice with fewer stalks per plant, but twice as many kernels per stalk, for example, or rice that needs less water or rice with a higher protein content.
"In less than 10 years, we'll be accessing technology from China," said John Killmer, vice president of Monsanto Far East Ltd. in Beijing.
China is trying to make sure of that the lax protection of intellectual property rights and a selective approval process keep competitors in check while domestic companies have freer rein. Monsanto has been successful in introducing its bollworm-resistant cottonseed to central China's Hebei Province, for example. But it has been rejected in nearby Hubei Province.
Although the company has recently received approval to sell the seed in Shandong Province, southeast of Hebei, its cotton variety is already planted on an estimated 33 million acres -- 80 percent of the genetically modified cotton in the province. But that is grown from pirated seed.
Pirating is simple. Seed producers plant the cotton in isolated fields surrounded by buffer zones wide enough to ensure that cross-pollinating insects do not make it to the cotton. They harvest the seed, treat it and sell it under their brand name.
Enthusiasm for the new science abounds. There is no public debate to stir up the opposition that has brought the development of genetically modified crops to a near standstill in India. Chinese scientists are derisive about Europe's resistance, which has already made China stop exporting genetically altered tobacco and soy sauce made from American genetically altered soybeans.
Mr. Chen said tests over the last year had shown no significant differences in research that covers studies like the sperm count and the liver weight of rats fed modified foods against those on normal diets. Though with no independent news coverage and no labeling rules, consumers are unaware that they are eating modified food, in any case.
Yet there is concern. While driving through the Hebei cotton country, a biologist from Monsanto, Nathan Lu, took a call on his mobile telephone from a worried official at the Agricultural Ministry who had heard that the bollworm was back in the Yellow River Basin. The ministry fears a super bollworm will develop that is resistant to the gene-altered cotton.
Environmentalists in the United States, where genetically altered crops have proved extremely popular, are also concerned that Bt cotton could help speed the evolution of pests resistant to the Bt toxin, a widely used naturally produced insecticide popular with conventional and organic farmers.
Mr. Lu said the worm reappeared late in the growing season, because the cotton flower's pollen carries less of the poison protein than other parts of the plant. In normal years, the return of the worm is minimal, because Chinese farmers work the cotton plant by plant, snapping off the tops of the plants, where most bollworm eggs are laid. But the worm breeds more successfully in dry years, and a drought this year has led to a larger second wave.
In Shahexin, Mr. Ma, the farmer, said even with the worms that have reappeared, he has not had to spray. Before the modified cotton arrived, he and his children sprayed their fields 20 to 30 times from May to September because the worm had grown so resistant to the pesticide.
Standing beneath a figwort tree, he said his sons, weaker than he, suffered nausea and troubled breathing at least twice every year. They need expensive injections of antropine, the antidote that soldiers carried in the Persian Gulf war in case of nerve-gas attacks from Iraq.
He said his yield had increased as much as 50 percent since he started planting the modified cotton. And, he said, by not buying pesticides he saves $80 an acre -- and his life.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A cotton farmer in Shahexin Village, Ma Yuzhuo, said about the new genetically modified cotton, "I don't understand it, but I know it works." (Craig S. Smith/The New York Times)
 
Map of China shows location of the Yellow River Basin: Officials fear bollworm has returned to the Yellow River Basin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC0119 CASH GRAINS, NEC (92%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (91%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (91%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: MONSANTO AGRICULTURA ESPANA SL (92%); MONSANTO CO (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GENETIC ENGINEERING (91%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (90%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (90%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (90%); PERSISTENT ORGANIC POLLUTANTS (90%); PESTICIDES (90%); COTTON FARMING (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); BACTERIA (89%); DNA (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (71%); WHEAT MARKETS (70%); GRAIN MARKETS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); IMPORT CONTROLS (65%); IMPORT TRADE (65%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (61%); SPACE WEAPONS (61%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%); 

PERSON: CHEN ZHANLIANG (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2000



160 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-8
 
Milosevic Yields Power In Face of Popular Revolt
Slobodan Milosevic, bowing to a vast popular uprising against him, resigned as president of Yugoslavia, ending 13 years of rule. The opposition leader, Vojislav Kostunica, is expected to be inaugurated today. The resignation was helped along by Foreign Minister Igor S. Ivanov of Russia, who met with Mr. Kostunica and Mr. Milosevic. Senior Western officials said Mr. Ivanov had offered Mr. Milosevic assurance that if he gave up power now, the world would not press for his extradition to face war crimes charges in The Hague. A1 

The European Union officially recognized Mr. Kostunica as the new president and announced that its foreign ministers would move to lift sanctions imposed on Yugoslavia last year, making good on a promise to reward the Serbs if they ousted Mr. Milosevic in the elections Sept. 24. A6
 
President Clinton hailed the developments as a triumph for the people of Yugoslavia and promised to work with Europe to lift the sanctions. A7
 
Israeli-Palestinian Clashes
Israeli and Palestinian authorities struggled to keep the Friday Prayers at the Al Aksa mosque in Jerusalem's Old City from ending in a blood bath and further inflaming the latest Israeli-Arab conflict. Despite the efforts, a short-lived calm disintegrated and clashes erupted, there and in the West Bank and Gaza, to add at least seven more Palestinian deaths to the mounting toll. A4
 
Thousands gathered near Times Square, in Manhattan, at rush hour to protest the killings of Palestinians and American support for Israel. B3
 
Japan Struck by Quake
The most powerful earthquake in five years struck western Japan at 1:30 p.m., hurting at least 100 people, damaging buildings and disrupting electric power. The 10-second quake was measured at 7.3 magnitude. A3
 
Protests End in Bolivia
The government agreed to demands by Indian peasant leaders, buckling under the pressure of three weeks of road blockades that had paralyzed the economy, caused food shortages and threatened to force the resignation of President Hugo Banzer. A8
 
Argentine Official Resigns
Vice President Carlos Alvarez resigned to protest a cabinet shuffle that left in place two officials implicated in the possible bribing of senators to pass a new labor code. A8
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A9-12, 16
 
Gentility of Debate Hid Weapons Under the Table
Strategists on both sides said the decision to hold to a more courtly tone in the vice-presidential debate was made on the fly, by Senator Joseph I. Lieberman and Dick Cheney, though each had been prepared to respond if the other attacked. While some of the 28.5 million television viewers confessed to being slightly bored with a thoughtful, informative debate free of rancor and with minimal posturing, others said they were left feeling braced. But the debate did not appear to have changed many minds, nor did strategists think it would influence the two remaining debates between Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush. A1
 
Bush's Plan to Fight Drugs
Gov. George W. Bush accused the Clinton administration of fighting illicit drugs "without urgency, without energy and without success" and proposed $2.7 billion in grants to groups and schools to combat narcotics and provide treatment. A10
 
Republicans, including Dick Cheney, unleashed strong assaults on the vice president's credibility. A10
 
Clinton Faults G.O.P. Actions
President Clinton expressed reservations about Republican proposals on Capitol Hill to allow the importation of low-cost prescription drugs and to ease trade sanctions on Cuba, and chastised Republicans for dropping a measure to make hate attacks on gays a federal crime. A16
 
Judge Acquits Starr Aide
Charles G. Bakaly III, the former spokesman for the independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr, was acquitted in a nonjury trial of a charge of contempt of court. Mr. Bakaly was accused of trying to hide his role in the leaking of information about Mr. Starr's investigation of President Clinton. A12
 
House Passes Servitude Bill
The House approved a wide-ranging measure that helps states and local governments fight domestic violence and toughens laws against the trafficking in women and children for prostitution and sweatshop labor. A1
 
Tempering Optimism on Surplus
The Congressional Budget Office warned that although the fiscal outlook for the next decade or so was bright, and getting brighter, the picture over the longer run remained troubled, even dire. A11
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Lazio Does About-Face On Party Money for Ads
Representative Rick A. Lazio reversed a decision to use money from the Republican National Committee to buy commercials for his Senate campaign, which will pay back the $1.4 million it used for the ads. B1
 
Judge Finds No Intimidation
A federal judge rejected claims by lawyers for Wadih el-Hage that the government tried to intimidate potential witnesses in his terrorism case by issuing them grand jury subpoenas as the trial approached. The case involves the bombing of two United States embassies in Africa that left more than 200 people dead and thousands injured. B3
 
Beliefs B8
 
OBITUARIES A13
 
William P. Bundy
A central figure in Vietnam policy who ultimately concluded that the war was "a tragedy waiting to happen," he was 83. A13
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH
 
Making Doctor Records Public
Governor Pataki signed legislation requiring the state to offer New Yorkers extensive information about malpractice judgments and disciplinary actions against doctors practicing in the state. B2
 
Better Care for Lab Animals
A federal judge ruled that the most commonly used laboratory animals -- mice, rats and birds -- should be given care under rules of the Federal Animal Welfare Act. A16
 
ARTS & IDEAS B9-20
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Yanks Win as Seattle Sweeps
The Yankees beat the Oakland A's, 4-2, to take a 2-1 series lead. The Mariners beat the Chicago White Sox, 2-1, to win their series, 3-0. D1
 
N.H.L. Player Convicted
A Canadian court found Marty McSorley guilty of assault with a weapon for striking Donald Brashear during a Boston Bruins-Vancouver Canucks game on Feb. 21. He was given 18 months' probation. D7
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-14
 
Stock Markets Plunge
The Nasdaq fell 111.09 points, or 3.2 percent, to 3,361.01, and is now off 17.4 percent for the year. The S.& P. 500 dropped 27.29 points, or 1.9 percent, to 1,408.99, off 4.1 percent for the year. The Dow fell 128.38 points, or 1.2 percent, to 10,596.54, down 7.83 percent in 2000. Investors cited concern about corporate earnings and dismissed a generally positive employment report for September. C1
 
Unemployment fell to 3.9 percent in September, once again matching the lowest level since 1970, and the nation's employers added 204,000 new jobs. The drop in unemployment from 4.1 percent in August included a decline in black unemployment to 7 percent -- the lowest level in history. But for many economists, the signs of strength were more an anomaly than the beginning of a rebound after months of declining job creation. C1
 
Big Navy Computer Contract
The Navy awarded Electronic Data Systems a nearly $7 billion contract for an internal computer network, the Navy-Marine Corps Intranet, to link sailors and Marines in the continental United States, Hawaii, Alaska, Puerto Rico, Iceland and Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. It is the largest information technology contract the government has ever awarded. C1
 
An Exit at British Telecom
British Telecommunications, facing shareholder calls for a management shake-up as debt balloons, said its finance director, Robert Brace, was leaving. A spokeswoman said Mr. Brace's departure was unrelated to the financial situation. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A14-15
 
Editorials: Mr. Lazio's refund; the tenacity of Madeleine Albright; pettiness on Capitol Hill; in defense of free speech.
Columns: Frank Rich, Anthony Lewis.
 
Bridge B18
TV Listings B20
Crossword B18
Weather A16
Public Lives A9
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); EUROPE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (77%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); EUROPE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EARTHQUAKES (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); EXTRADITION (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); POWER FAILURES (73%); RIOTS (72%); WAR CRIMES (70%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (50%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%); DICK CHENEY (57%); JOE LIEBERMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2000



161 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: SHOWDOWN IN YUGOSLAVIA;
Remarks by Milosevic, Clinton and Key Serbs

 BODY:
Following is the statement by President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia accepting the election of Vojislav Kostunica to succeed him, as broadcast by CNN:
I've just received official information that Vojislav Kostunica won the elections. This decision was made by the body that was authorized to do so under the Constitution, and I consider that it has to be respected. 
 I want to thank all those who voted for me, and at the same time those who didn't, because they lifted from my soul a heavy burden I have borne for 10 years.
Concerning my party, it is going to provide very strong opposition. I have always said no party can ever demonstrate all its strengths and qualities if it isn't in opposition for a time, because the time spent in opposition allows a party to expel those who got in to feed some personal interest. I'm sure the coming times will be a great help to the Socialist Party of Serbia and to you, and sure of the party's victory in the next election.
For me personally, because my burden has been lifted, I plan to spend some time with my family, especially my grandson, Marko, and after that to continue to strengthen my party and to increase its contributions to the society and further development of this country -- like the contributions it has already made to the defense and renewal of our country.
I congratulate Mr. Kostunica on his electoral victory and wish for all citizens of Yugoslavia great success during the new presidency.
As President Milosevic acknowledged the election of Mr. Kostunica to succeed him, Belgrade was aswarm with official statements of congratulations and concern. Here is a sampling:
 
PATRIARCH PAVLE -- of the Serbian Orthodox Church, addressing the army chief of staff, Gen. Nebojsa Pavkovic:
I appeal to you and our people's army to publicly accept what our people and the democratic world accept -- Vojislav Kostunica as the president of Yugoslavia. . . . (Agence France-Presse)
 
GENERAL PAVKOVIC
Honored Mr. Kostunica, in the name of all the members of the Yugoslav Army and on my own behalf, I want to congratulate you on your victory in the Yugoslav presidential election.
In the turbulent events which took place in recent days, our citizens demonstrated their political and national maturity and put an end to another great crisis. Members of the Yugoslav Army, strictly respecting constitutional rulings, did not take part in the political struggle and are ready to accept the people's will and all the legitimate decisions of the electoral institutions.
Addressing Mr. Milosevic's desire to stay active in politics, General Pavkovic said:
We are sure that in this new function, you will do everything to have all problems solved in a civilized manner and return the country to normal political and economic life. (Reuters)
In Washington, President Clinton's remarks at a news conference reflected those of leaders around the world. The transcript was prepared by Federal News Service, a private company.
 
PRESIDENT CLINTON
I'd like to say a few words about the historic developments in Serbia.
First and foremost, this is an extraordinary victory for the people of the former Yugoslavia, who endured oppression and deprivation, who saw through the propaganda, who took their country back with nothing but courage, principle and patriotism.
They will now define the shape of their future. They have said they want to live in a normal country, at peace with its neighbors and a part of the world. The rest of us will welcome them.
This is a victory for newly elected President Kostunica, for his integrity and leadership in bringing this new day. As Yugoslavia's new leaders work to build a truly democratic society, we will move with our European allies to lift sanctions and bring them out of isolation. This is a victory for all southeast Europe.
As long as Mr. Milosevic was in power, the danger of more violence in Bosnia, Kosovo, Montenegro, Macedonia remained high. A dark cloud has lifted, and though tensions and challenges clearly remain, prospects for enduring stability in the Balkans have greatly improved.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Slobodan Milosevic delivering his address yesterday on television. (Yugoslav TV via CNN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (52%); YUGOSLAV ARMY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: YUGOSLAV ARMY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ARMIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%); RELIGION (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2000



162 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: 2000 PLAYOFFS;
Squeezed Out: Mariners Sweep Anemic White Sox

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Oct. 6

 BODY:
When the pinch-hitter Carlos Guillen of the Mariners shocked everyone by squaring around to bunt in the bottom of the ninth inning today, he pushed the ball past pitcher Keith Foulke, first baseman Frank Thomas and second baseman Ray Durham of the White Sox.
All three defenders spun and lunged in futility like plastic figures in a table-top hockey game who could not quite reach the puck. 
 As the ball hit the infield grass and rolled over the dirt and into right field, Guillen's face broke into a grin while he danced down the first-base line. Behind him, the pinch-runner Rickey Henderson dashed from third to home with the winning run as the Mariners won, 2-1, at Safeco Field to sweep their American League division series in three games.
The fans -- 48,010 of them, the largest crowd in the brief history of this delightful new stadium -- erupted in a sort of a shocked shout that grew into a joyous roar as the Mariners raced from their first-base dugout and mobbed Guillen.
Before long, some of the players uncorked Champagne bottles and sprayed them on the giddy spectators.
Next week the Mariners will face either the Yankees or the Oakland Athletics for the American League pennant. But that can wait. The Mariners celebrated loudly and at length today after a splendid climax to a so-so series. In an era filled with home-run inflation and long, tedious games, these two teams performed a neat little pitchers' duel filled with good fielding and managerial strategy over a pleasant and fast-paced 2 hours 40 minutes.
And the winning play was really a bit of improvisation. Seattle Manager Lou Piniella had told Guillen to try to hit a grounder to first base because Thomas does not play there often and might not be able to throw out the speedy Henderson.
So, on the first pitch, Guillen decided to try to hit a sacrifice fly. He fouled the pitch off. "After that, I said, 'I'll try for a grounder to first base,' " said Guillen, a utility infielder who spent time in the minor leagues this season.
With four infielders pulled in, a bunt might seem like a low-percentage play. Did Guillen think the bunt surprised the White Sox? "Yeah," he said.
The Mariners, the last of the eight qualifiers in baseball's postseason tournament, became the first team to reach the second of three rounds. They won the wild-card berth on the final day of the season. Now, they have a chance to rest and scout their next opponent. They are playing little ball, the kind usually found in the National League. They are winning with pitching, fielding and timely hitting from veteran players.
Jerry Manuel, the Chicago manager, said Seattle's late quest for a playoff berth has given the Mariners momentum to go much farther.
"They made it and came in and played a good level of baseball at the right time," Manuel said. "They outhit us. They outplayed us. They outmanaged us."
Chicago finished the regular season with the best record in the American League, but limped into the postseason with injured pitchers and nervous hitters. James Baldwin, today's starter, worked despite cortisone shots to numb the pain of a damaged right shoulder. He pitched six innings and left with a 1-1 tie. The only Chicago run came after a second-inning double by Harold Baines, who moved to third on a fly ball to center and scored on another fly to the same place.
The Mariners tied the score in the bottom of the fourth inning on a two-out ground ball by Stan Javier that hit the glove of Durham and bounced away. It could have been scored an error. Although Manuel shaved his beard and shuffled his lineup to change Chicago's luck, he got an 0-for-2 performance from Thomas, who finished the series 0 for 9. The Sox managed only three hits today.
Seattle's winning pitcher was the reliever Jose Paniagua, but the star on the mound was Aaron Sele, the starter, who left with one out in the eighth. The Mariners bullpen gave up no runs in the series.
"We've got something special going," Sele said. "We mixed and matched all year long and played together. Today is a great example of our team play."
A key addition this season has been John Olerud, the veteran first baseman who played with the Mets from 1997 to 1999. He went 3 for 10 in this series, including a home run in the first game. Today, Olerud made three unassisted putouts, one of them a spear of a hard grounder by Chris Singleton.
He started the ninth with a line drive off a 3-1 pitch into the midsection of pitcher Kelly Wunsch. The pitcher fielded the ball off the mound but threw hurriedly and awkwardly from one knee. The ball skipped past Thomas, allowing Olerud to take second. Henderson ran for Olerud and took third on a sacrifice bunt by Javier to set up the final moments.
"This series, we played about as well as you could hope to play," Olerud said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Aaron Sele allowed one run on three hits in seven and one-third innings yesterday while shutting down the White Sox, the highest-scoring team in the major leagues. (Reuters)(pg. D2); The Mariners gathering in celebration after winning on a squeeze bunt in the bottom of the ninth. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. D1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (58%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN LEAGUE DIV (57%); SEATTLE MARINERS (94%); SEATTLE MARINERS (94%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (93%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (93%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); OAKLAND A'S (55%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEATTLE MARINERS (94%); SEATTLE MARINERS (94%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (93%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (93%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); OAKLAND A'S (55%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (58%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); 

PERSON: FRANK THOMAS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2000



163 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1813 words

HEADLINE: President Plays Coach in First Lady's Campaign

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and RICHARD L. BERKE

 BODY:
The announcement came crackling over the office intercom in the din of Hillary Clinton's campaign headquarters: "The president of the United States is on Line 5 for Bill."
Bill is Mrs. Clinton's campaign manager, Bill de Blasio. The president of the United States is, of course, married to the Democratic candidate for Senate in New York. 
 News of who was holding on Line 5 set off a rustle of excitement in the campaign headquarters near Madison Square Garden. But it was hardly a rare occurrence.
President Clinton has taken an intense and consuming interest in the campaign for Senate in New York, friends and advisers said, interposing himself on matters ranging from far-reaching strategy to custodial details that would seem to fall below the presidential pay grade.
In the twilight of his presidency, Mr. Clinton has found time to offer his counsel on where Mrs. Clinton should campaign (upstate, his aides say) and how heavily she should advertise on television (too much a few months ago, not enough last month).
He has advised her on fund-raising strategy (raise more hard money), and how to come across at her debate tomorrow (speak in compact sentences). And he has offered up his very strong views on what he thinks she should be talking about on the trail (it's the economy, Mrs. Clinton).
When Mr. Clinton called Venus Williams, the tennis star, to congratulate her for winning the United States Open last month, she asked him why she felt bombarded with commercials for Representative Rick A. Lazio, and had seen none for Mrs. Clinton. An irritated Mr. Clinton promptly called the first lady's advisers to demand why they were not buying more television time, campaign aides said.
No other race in the nation -- including the one by Al Gore to succeed him -- has commanded as much of Mr. Clinton's attention, and drawn as much of his time and concern, the president's friends say. While aides to Mrs. Clinton say the intensity of Mr. Clinton's involvement varies from day to day, depending on the pull of his other duties, his influence is felt as much as anyone's at her headquarters, save for that of the candidate herself.
There are times that Mr. Clinton, who is feeling the discomfort of playing the spectator as he begins his exit from elected life, seems so invested in his wife's campaign that it is as if he were running against Mr. Lazio.
Accordingly, Mr. Clinton has, at times, pressed Mrs. Clinton to do things that seem more suited to his political style. White House officials said Mr. Clinton urged her aides to inject more policy minutiae into her speeches. While that may work for the president, who can be arresting on the stump, Mrs. Clinton sometimes comes off as a plodding speaker.
President Clinton and Mrs. Clinton both declined requests for an interview for this article.
Mr. Clinton and his aides have gone to some lengths to play down what he is doing in New York, concerned partly that his involvement would suggest that Mrs. Clinton's political skills were not up to the demands of this race.
"I've seen it when he was the candidate and she was the spouse, and now when she is the candidate and he is the spouse, and their roles have totally flipped," said Mark Penn, the longtime Clinton pollster who Mrs. Clinton installed in a senior role in her campaign at the strong urging of Mr. Clinton. "But make no mistake about it: she has learned about New York, she makes the decisions, and she runs the show."
Still, reports of his intervention are plentiful.
For example, upon learning that Mr. Lazio's wife, Patricia, was attacking Mrs. Clinton for attacking Mr. Lazio on his record on health care in Congress, President Clinton immediately called campaign officials in New York and urged them to make a rebuttal. They did.
Mr. Clinton has also chastised campaign officials for cramming Mrs. Clinton's calendar with too many events, warning that fatigue can lead to mistakes -- all the while sounding very much the way Mrs. Clinton did in 1992 when he was the candidate. "He's actually into a spouse role -- 'You're working her too hard, she really needs a day off,' -- the same things that she used to say about him," said one adviser to both Clintons.
Because he is president, and is viewed by Democrats and Republicans as unrivaled in his political skills, Mr. Clinton helps his wife in ways that no other spouse conceivably could, giving her an enormous advantage over Mr. Lazio, the Suffolk County Republican.
The most public manifestation of that has been in fund-raising. For months, aides said, Mr. Clinton had reassured his wife that she would have enough money to be competitive. And in the face of fund-raising reports that now suggest that Mrs. Clinton has good reason to be worried, the president has gone to considerable lengths in public and private to back up his assurances.
Mr. Clinton has attended two dozen fund-raisers for his wife across the country this year, raising more than $5 million. On Wednesday night, he was the star attraction at a fund-raiser for Mrs. Clinton at the home of Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts. Earlier in the week, Mr. Clinton appeared at three events in Florida, leaving Mrs. Clinton free to travel in New York while he was raising money for a campaign that he fears is underfinanced.
Last month, as Mr. Clinton was preparing to travel to Philadelphia for a groundbreaking of the National Constitutional Center on Independence Mall, he called Edward G. Rendell, the general chairman of the Democratic National Committee and the former mayor of Philadelphia, and asked him to put together a quick fund-raiser. Mr. Rendell said the president specifically said he wanted to collect hard money -- the strictly regulated contributions that are the most difficult to raise and the kind Mrs. Clinton most needs.
"He called me four or five days before," Mr. Rendell recalled. "He said, 'If I come in an hour early, can you get people to come and do something for Hillary, because we need hard money?' So I sold it by saying, 'Come help Hillary, but this will probably be the last chance in Philadelphia to see the president in a small group.' "
The take? "Fifty-five thousand dollars in hard money," Mr. Rendell said. "For five days' notice, I was stunned. People wanted to say one last goodbye to the president."
At the White House, cabinet members and lawmakers describe Mr. Clinton as almost distracted by what is happening in New York, saying that he frequently drifts away from the official agenda to report some new bit of news out of the race, or describe a new poll by Mr. Penn. Not one day goes by, Mr. Clinton's friends say, when he does not talk about the race.
Last month, Bill Richardson, the secretary of energy, walked into the Cabinet Room at the White House in preparation for bilateral negotiations with the prime minister of India. But Mr. Clinton's mind was far from the Indian subcontinent. This was a few days after Mrs. Clinton had debated Mr. Lazio, and the president had a new poll from Mr. Penn.
"He was ecstatic about the debate results," Mr. Richardson said. "He was exulting. His words were, 'The numbers on Hillary's debate are great.' "
At the White House, the president, Mrs. Clinton and her campaign team can often be found in the Map Room or the Family Theater, drilling for her debates, or fine-tuning lines in some speech. The president was instrumental in helping to come up with a crucial line in Mrs. Clinton's acceptance speech, which was intended to address concerns about her campaigning for office in a state where she had never lived: "I may be new to the neighborhood, but I'm not new to your concerns."
One adviser recalls the Clintons practicing the line. "It was like an inflection thing," the adviser said. "He would say, 'Try to deliver it this way and pause here in the sentence.' She'd listen and go back and do it her way and try to pick up from his advice."
Several aides said that although the president is not dictatorial in suggesting what she should say and how she should say it, his views usually prevail.
"He's very deferential," said one White House official. "He'll say, 'Here's how I would answer that question, but you're the candidate, so make up your own mind.' "
Another White House official said that when Mrs. Clinton is in her office there, she often tells her staff, " 'Check with Bill on that.' Or, 'This goes by the president.' She's extremely reliant on him."
Mr. Clinton has gone to some lengths to obscure his role in his wife's campaign in the months since he called The Daily News to defend the first lady against charges that she made an anti-Semitic slur in Arkansas 26 years ago. Mr. Clinton's call served to rocket the story into major newspapers, and he has described it to friends as one of his greatest mistakes of the year.
That probably explains why Mr. Clinton has yet to visit Mrs. Clinton's campaign headquarters. His appearances with her have been infrequent and are the subject of elaborate discussions over where he should sit and whether he should speak. In fact, when he does appear, as at Mrs. Clinton's nomination at the Democratic State Convention, the president often says little or even nothing.
But even when asserting that he is not playing much of a role in the campaign, Mr. Clinton has startled aides by reciting word-for-word some daily attack Mr. Lazio has made against the first lady. "If you spend any time with him, you know he knows everything that's going on," a senior White House aide said.
Representative Charles B. Rangel of Manhattan recalled that while he was flying on Air Force One with the Clintons, the president "appeared to be working over her speech" that she was to give accepting her party's nomination. But days later, when Mr. Rangel was at the president's table at a state dinner, he recalled: "I jokingly said he had written her acceptance speech. He violently disagreed. The fact is, he wanted everyone to know how completely independent she was. And that he was only reviewing it."
Like everything to do with the first couple, this latest chapter in their public lives is an intricate and exceedingly complicated involvement. Friends of the Clintons, for the most part, will not discuss the president's role in the campaign, and much of it is played out either in private conversations between the Clintons or through intermediaries. The first couple do not use e-mail.
Some of Mrs. Clinton's aides say that at this point, with her campaign going well, the president's guidance is not as critical it was when Mrs. Clinton entered the race more than a year ago, and they would be just as happy if he stayed in Washington. That, though, seems unlikely.
"Even if we didn't want him, we couldn't get rid of him," Mr. Rangel said, "because he's committed to this race. We're dealing with a team effort."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President and Mrs. Clinton last month at the Jewish Community Center in New Rochelle, N.Y. His appearances with her give rise to elaborate discussions over where he should sit and whether he should speak. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (57%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (57%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (57%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%); TENNIS (69%); SPORTS (69%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (67%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (58%); VENUS WILLIAMS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2000



164 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B;Page 9;Column 1;Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: In This Woman's World, What's a Guy to Do? Sweat!

BYLINE: By EMILY EAKIN

 BODY:
Why are men so much more concerned about their bodies today than they were 50 years ago?
This was the question Harrison G. Pope Jr., a professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, and two colleagues asked themselves after noticing a sharp increase in male gym memberships, anabolic steroid use and especially body image disorders, including muscle dysmorphia (sometimes called bigorexia), an illness characterized by compulsive exercising and the sufferer's irrational conviction that he is weak and puny even though he may be bulging with muscle. 
 To explain this trend, Mr. Pope and his colleagues came up with a provocative hypothesis: threatened masculinity. As women have entered the work force and become heads of families, men have had to relinquish their traditional roles as fathers, soldiers and breadwinners, the authors speculated, which leaves their bodies as the only way to demonstrate their masculinity.
Mr. Pope and his colleagues, who published their findings this spring in "The Adonis Complex: The Secret Crisis of Male Body Obsession" (Free Press), are not the only ones convinced that masculinity is under siege. Over the last two years social scientists, philosophers and cultural commentators of both sexes and all political persuasions have begun sounding the alarm in an outpouring of articles and books, several with pulse-raising titles like "The Decline of Males," "Stiffed: The Betrayal of American Men" and "On Men: Masculinity in Crisis."
Some experts are focusing on the transformation of America's "masculine" manufacturing economy into a "feminine" service and retail economy to explain what they say is a large rise in male status anxiety and asocial behavior, symbolized by the teenage boys who killed 13 people and themselves at Columbine High School last year. Others theorize that the sweeping social changes wrought by the women's movement, the birth control pill and legal abortion have stripped men of their traditional roles as providers and protectors, leaving them feeling physically powerless and psychologically bereft.
Depending on which expert is consulted, young boys are victims either of an unreasonable code of masculinity that doesn't allow them to express their feelings, or of a misguided feminist educational system bent on making them more like little girls. There is little consensus about whether masculinity is a product of culture (and therefore susceptible to change) or biology (and therefore unchanging). In some ways the debate is the latest chapter in the nation's culture wars, with liberals and conservatives arguing over the plight of a particular group, in this case men.
Conservatives writing about male decline often single out feminism as the culprit. "Greater opportunity for women is probably the most significant gain for human freedom in the last century," the culture critic Andrew Sullivan wrote in The New Republic in June. "But with this gain has come a somewhat unexpected problem: How do we restore a sense of masculinity that is vaguely civilized? Take their exclusive vocations away, remove their institutions, de-gender their clubs and schools and workplaces, and you leave men with more than a little cultural bewilderment."
"By denying any deep biological or psychological difference between the sexes," he continued, "some influential feminists refuse to countenance any special treatment for men and boys." Mr. Sullivan's views are echoed by Harvey C. Mansfield, a political philosopher at Harvard who teaches a graduate seminar on manliness and is writing a book on the subject.
"We've gone from this tremendous assertion of masculinity at the beginning of the century to this ideal of the sensitive male and a gender-neutral society at the end," Mr. Mansfield said. "If you agree with the biologists that manliness is something permanent and unchangeable, in a gender-neutral society you'll run into problems.
"One is the desire of men to protect those who are weaker than they are: women and, especially, children. Since women are in the work force, they no longer depend on men for support the way they used to, which can make men feel they are not useful and lead them into irresponsibility, violence and criminality."
Conservatives often cite the work of Lionel Tiger, an anthropologist at Rutgers University whose 1999 book "The Decline of Males" (St. Martin's Griffin) blames the birth control pill for a decrease in men's social status. Before oral contraceptives achieved widespread use in the 1960's, Mr. Tiger writes, pregnancy was regarded by men and women as a shared responsibility. At the turn of the 20th century, he reports, as many as half of American brides were pregnant when they married. After women went on the pill, the average age at marriage and the number of single mothers increased.
Mr. Tiger says that public policy has encouraged women's independence from men by extending welfare benefits to single mothers, awarding mothers custody of children in divorce cases and even denying fathers visiting rights. Men, he concludes, have become socially expendable: no longer essential for raising or supporting a family.
"The pill represents the first time in history that one sex has been given complete control over reproduction," Mr. Tiger said in an interview. "The decline of men has everything to do with them being alienated from the means of reproduction."
Such arguments do not sit well with feminists, even those sympathetic to the idea of a men's crisis. "The women's movement is just a symptom of basic changes in the economy that are favoring women," said Helen Fisher, a colleague of Mr. Tiger's in the Rutgers anthropology department and the author of "The First Sex: The Natural Talents of Women and How They Are Changing the World" (Random House, 1999).
In her book Ms. Fisher cites recent findings in biology and genetics to argue that the female brain is optimally suited for the demands of a high-tech, media- and communications-oriented economy. Though she predicts an increase in female economic power in the coming century, Ms. Fisher does not say it will come at the expense of men, who, she points out, still control the overwhelming majority of top positions in American corporations and politics.
Susan Faludi, a feminist critic and the author of "Stiffed: The Betrayal of American Men" (William Morrow), a much-discussed 1999 book, agrees. "There's a lot of blaming and confusion over women's meager gains and the so-called feminization of culture," she said. "It may appear to men on the down escalator that women have the upper hand, but even in our service economy, which is coded as feminine, women are still relegated to jobs that don't pay a decent wage."
The real problem men face today, Ms. Faludi argues, has less to do with feminism than with surviving in a consumer retail culture that values body image and sex appeal, the components of stereotypical femininity that the women's movement was rejecting. "The pressures men feel today are the very pressures that had women by the throat," she said.
Whether feminism, the economy or other factors are responsible, there is evidence that American culture is paying more attention to the male body. When Mr. Pope and his colleagues, Katharine A. Phillips and Robert Olivardia, examined advertisements featuring male and female bodies that had appeared in the women's magazines Glamour and Cosmopolitan since 1950, they found the percentage of ads depicting women in some state of undress remained relatively stable, hovering around 20 percent. By contrast the percentage of ads depicting undressed men rose sharply, from less than 5 percent in 1950 to as much as 35 percent in the 90's.
"The fact that the percentage of undressed females did not change tremendously over the years suggests that this is not due to some general trend toward nudity or to some editorial change," Mr. Pope concluded.
But other scholars wonder whether the alarms being raised are really all that new. "There is always a crisis," said Gail Bederman, a historian at the University of Notre Dame and the author of "Manliness and Civilization: A Cultural History of Gender and Race in the United States, 1880-1917" (University of Chicago Press, 1995). "The idea of what men are and what women are is always changing. When people are looking at it, there's always a crisis."
She pointed out that at the turn of the 20th century the United States was also grappling with a masculinity crisis. President Theodore Roosevelt routinely invoked a national decline in manliness to justify aggressive westward expansion and foreign imperialism.
"This was a time when immigrants were flooding into the country, the birth rate of native-born Americans was declining, and there was much labor unrest," Ms. Bederman said. "Roosevelt was part of a group of middle- and upper-class men concerned about the direction the nation was going, and he understood the problems in terms of a threatened masculinity."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 10, 2000, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture grouping in Arts & Ideas on Saturday with an article about a theory of threatened masculinity carried a misspelled credit. The picture agency is Corbis-Bettmann, not Bettman.


GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photographs from Corbis/Bettman)(pg. B9); Abs in ads: As some men see their power waning, their bodies are showing up more often in advertising, without a similar increase in images of undressed women. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. B11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: WOMAN'S WORLD SHOPS INC (58%); HARVARD MEDICAL SCHOOL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD MEDICAL SCHOOL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MEN (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PSYCHIATRY (77%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (77%); TRENDS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (74%); FAMILY (74%); WOMEN (74%); WRITERS (73%); STEROIDS (72%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); LIBERALISM (71%); CONTRACEPTION (50%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: LIONEL TIGER (66%); HARRISON G POPE JR (66%); HARVEY C MANSFIELD (56%); ANDREW SULLIVAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2000



165 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 36; Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: October 8, 2000

 BODY:

	 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 	 	 1	4	SAVING FAITH, by David Baldacci. (Warner Vision, $7.99.) A man and a woman are caught in machinations of the F.B.I. involving corrupt forces in Washington.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	3	MONSTER, by Jonathan Kellerman. (Ballantine, $7.99.) Alex Delaware undertakes to discover how an inmate of a mental hospital can correctly predict brutal murders on the streets of Los Angeles.		 	 	 	 	 	 3	4	A WALK TO REMEMBER, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $6.99.) In 1958, a high school senior in North Carolina finds love with the daughter of a Baptist minister.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	6	LEFT BEHIND, by Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. Jenkins. (Tyndale, $13.99 and $7.99.) Life as lived by those who survive a global cataclysm. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 5	4	NIGHT TALES, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $14.95.) Four novels of romantic suspense that revolve around police officers and a prosecutor.		 	 	 	 	 	 6	8	BLACK NOTICE, by Patricia Cornwell. (Berkley, $7.99.) Dr. Kay Scarpetta's investigation of a ship's cargo leads her into an international conspiracy.		 	 	 	 	 	 7	29	THE POISONWOOD BIBLE, by Barbara Kingsolver. (Perennial/HarperCollins, $14.) Five female characters narrate a novel set in the Belgian Congo during that country's fight for independence.		 	 	 	 	 	 8	4	 *HIGH TIDE, by Jude Deveraux. (Pocket Books, $7.99.) A New York businesswoman, on a trip to the Everglades, becomes a suspect in a murder case.		 	 	 	 	 	 9	4	NIGHT SHIELD, by Nora Roberts. (Intimate Moments/Silhouette, $4.50.) A cop tries to stop herself from falling for a good-looking shady character.		 	 	 	 	 	 10	1	A GOD IN RUINS, by Leon Uris. (Avon, $7.99.) On his way to the White House, Gov. Quinn Patrick O'Connell of Colorado discovers a secret that imperils his future.		 	 	 	 	 	 11	8	THE ALIBI, by Sandra Brown. (Warner, $7.99.) Jealousy, intrigue and corruption beset a Charleston lawyer during his pursuit of public office.		 	 	 	 	 	 12	1	HARD TIME, by Sara Paretsky. (Dell, $6.99.) V. I. Warshawski copes with mysteries involving a multimedia conglomerate and a prison for women.		 	 	 	 	 	 13	2	JUDGMENT IN DEATH, by J. D. Robb. (Berkley, $7.50.) Lt. Eve Dallas's investigation of the bludgeoning death of a cop in a strip joint uncovers a private club called Purgatory.		 	 	 	 	 	 14	4	PLAINSONG, by Kent Haruf. (Vintage Contemporaries, $13.) A half-dozen members of a high-plains Colorado community learn to contend with the variety of problems that face them.		 	 	 	 	 	 15	8	HEARTS IN ATLANTIS, by Stephen King. (Pocket Books, $7.99.) Five long, interconnected stories about an America haunted by the Vietnam War.		 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 	 	 1	4	'TIS, by Frank McCourt. (Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $14.) An Irish immigrant gets used to life in America: the second volume of a memoir.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	99	THE SEAT OF THE SOUL, by Gary Zukav. (Fireside/Simon & Schuster, $12.) How daily activities can be enhanced by feelings of meaning and purpose. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 3	4	. . . AND NEVER LET HER GO, by Ann Rule. (Pocket Star, $7.99.) The murder of a secretary to the governor of Delaware by an esteemed attorney.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	3	A MAN NAMED DAVE, by Dave Pelzer. (Plume, $11.) The concluding volume of a memoir that began with "A Child Called 'It' "and "The Lost Boy." (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 5	125	A CHILD CALLED "IT," by Dave Pelzer. (Health Communications, $9.95.) The autobiography of a man who survived abuse at the hands of an unstable, alcoholic mother. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 6	2	SURVIVOR, by Mark Burnett with Martin Dugard. (TV Books, $17.95.) The companion volume to the television show.		 	 	 	 	 	 7	7	THE TERRIBLE HOURS, by Peter Maas. (HarperTorch, $6.99.) The role a United States Navy officer played in rescuing the crew of a submarine in 1939.		 	 	 	 	 	 8	121	 *THE PERFECT STORM, by Sebastian Junger. (Perennial/HarperCollins, $14; HarperPaperbacks, $6.99.) The story of the northeaster of 1991, focusing on a crew of fishermen from Gloucester, Mass.		 	 	 	 	 	 9	76	THE LOST BOY, by Dave Pelzer. (Health Communications, $10.95.) The author of "A Child Called 'It' "recalls his life at a series of foster homes. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 10	3	 *ONE LAST TIME, by John Edward. (Berkley, $12.95.) A self-described psychic medium discusses his life and work.		 	 	 	 	 	 11	64	A WALK IN THE WOODS, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $13.) A journalist finds beauty and humor while hiking the Appalachian Trail.		 	 	 	 	 	 12	1	A YEAR BY THE SEA, by Joan Anderson. (Broadway, $12.95.) A record of the author's 12 months on Cape Cod, filled with self-discovery and change.		 	 	 	 	 	 13	10	ISAAC'S STORM, by Erik Larson. (Vintage, $13.) An account of America's deadliest hurricane, in Galveston, Tex., in 1900, and the Weather Bureau scientist who failed to forecast it.		 	 	 	 	 	 14	18	 *THE LEXUS AND THE OLIVE TREE, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Anchor, $15.) A journalist explains the instant electronic global economy. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 15	75	GUNS, GERMS, AND STEEL, by Jared Diamond. (Norton, $14.95.) A physiologist attributes Western dominance to geographical advantages. (+)		 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Hardcover		 	 	 	 	 	 1	46	WHO MOVED MY CHEESE? by Spencer Johnson. (Putnam, $19.95.) How to deal with changes at work and in life in general. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 2	5	GUINNESS world RECORDS 2001. (Guinness, $26.95.) A profusely illustrated collection of records about subjects as various as sports and technology.		 	 	 	 	 	 3	55	BODY FOR LIFE, by Bill Phillips with Michael D'Orso. (HarperCollins, $26.) Ways to improve one's body and one's life. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 4	18	RELATIONSHIP RESCUE, by Phillip C. McGraw. (Hyperion, $22.95.) A program for reconnecting with one's partner. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 5	12	EATING WELL FOR OPTIMUM HEALTh, by Andrew Weil. (Knopf, $25.) A physician's guide to food, diet and nutrition. (+)		 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Paperback		 	 	 	 	 	 1	3	TALKING DIRTY WITH THE QUEEN OF CLEAN, by Linda Cobb. (Pocket Books, $8.99.) A housekeeping guide.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	22	RICH DAD, POOR DAD, by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter. (Warner, $15.95.) Teaching one's children how to get rich and stay rich.		 	 	 	 	 	 3	208	DR. ATKINS' NEW DIET REVOLUTION, by Robert C. Atkins. (Avon, $14 and $6.99.) Ways to lose weight and achieve a healthy body. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 4	12	THE FOUR AGREEMENTS, by Don Miguel Ruiz. (Amber-Allen, $12.95.) A code of conduct based on personal freedom. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 5	13	TAKE TIME FOR YOUR LIFE, by Cheryl Richardson. (Broadway, $13.) A seven-step program for enhancing social, financial and spiritual well-being. (+)	
 
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending Sept. 23, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+)indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/books. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); BELGIUM (54%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (77%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (58%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (58%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); BELGIUM (54%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (77%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); MURDER (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); BESTSELLERS (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); RELIGION (77%); WOMEN (77%); CONSPIRACY (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (71%); PRISONS (70%); ALIBI (70%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (55%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



166 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 29; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: Who Lost Russia?

BYLINE: By Robert D. Kaplan; Robert D. Kaplan, senior fellow at the New America Foundation, is author of the forthcoming "Eastward to Tartary: Travels in the Balkans, the Middle East, and the Caucasus."

 BODY:

 FAILED CRUSADE
 America and the Tragedy
 of Post-Communist Russia.
 By Stephen F. Cohen.
 304 pp. New York:
 W. W. Norton & Company. $21.95.
 
 SALE OF THE CENTURY
 Russia's Wild Ride
 From Communism to Capitalism.
 By Chrystia Freeland.
 305 pp. New York:
 Crown Business. $27.50. 
 When German officials began their efforts to integrate 17 million former East Germans into the West following four decades of Communism, American diplomats and economists hoped to do likewise with over 140 million Russians, spread over seven time zones, after seven decades of Communism. The Germans will likely succeed, but it has been a much harder task than they originally envisioned. The Americans have failed. Seventy years of history's most comprehensive totalitarianism, following centuries of absolutism, left an institutional and moral void that -- compounded by the suddenness of the Soviet collapse -- has so far proved impossible to overcome. "So great is Russia's economic and thus social catastrophe that we must now speak of another unprecedented development: the literal demodernization of a 20th-century country," writes Stephen F. Cohen, professor of Russian studies at New York University, in "Failed Crusade."
Even before Russia's financial collapse of August-September, 1998, in which Western investors lost tens of billions of dollars, Russia's gross domestic product was half of what it had been in the early 1990's: twice the decline of the United States economy during the Great Depression. Cohen blames bad advice from the United States for the debacle, and his terse, blistering polemic assails the entire community of Russia experts who, he claims, "committed malpractice throughout the 1990's."
Cohen refers to America's Russia hands as "missionaries" and "evangelists." Suffused with post-cold-war triumphalism, they regarded Russia as "a nation ready, willing and able to be transformed into some replica of America." There is almost no scholar, investor, economist or journalist associated with Russia who is not castigated (if not in the text, then in the notes) by way of an arrogant or Pollyannaish remark that the author has dug up. Cohen attacks people -- including Richard Pipes and Zbigniew Brzezinski -- who understood in the 1980's, as he did not, that Soviet Communism could not be salvaged. He fails to emphasize that the Russians never implemented much of the advice of the very experts he attacks for losing Russia. And his own advice -- that we should not have bombed Serbia or expanded NATO and that we should adopt instead the "collective approaches" of the United Nations, all for the sake of courting Russia -- amounts to capitulation, not engagement.
Nevertheless, Cohen writes with bracing clarity on a subject obscured by euphemisms and double talk regarding Russia's so-called democratic renewal. It is precisely Cohen's insight about the Soviet system's deep roots in Russia's past -- an insight that in the 1980's helped blind him to Communism's irredeemable failure -- that has allowed him since the early 1990's to see that capitalist shock therapy would ultimately fail. According to Cohen, a people's historical experience supersedes economic theory. Thus, as he explains, what worked for Poland -- a small, ethnically homogeneous country exposed to the Enlightenment, with a rudimentary market infrastructure even before the collapse of the Berlin Wall -- would not necessarily work for Russia. Cohen provides a stimulating counterchronology to challenge the official Washington view of post-cold-war Russia as a string of qualified successes and disasters avoided, in which good democrats, led by former President Boris Yeltsin, have battled bad neocommunists, particularly Yevgeny Primakov, a former prime minister and foreign minister.
Cohen writes that in 1991, Yeltsin, without any responsible preparation, abolished the Soviet Union, creating a bureaucratic vacuum. In 1992 and 1993, "hyperinflation generated by economic shock therapy . . . wiped out the life savings of most Russians." Also in 1993, Yeltsin used tanks to overhaul the elected Parliament and the entire constitutional order of post-Soviet Russia. The next year, he launched a war against Chechnya, killing tens of thousands of civilians. In 1998, following a series of financial deals that failed to benefit most Russians, Yeltsin's government -- after promising never to do so -- devalued the ruble and froze bank accounts, economically decimating average citizens once again. And in 1999, after a series of apartment house bomb blasts that Russia's own security services may have set, Vladimir Putin, then prime minister, and a former K.G.B. agent, launched a second war against Chechnya, killing thousands more civilians. The war's popularity helped Putin to succeed Yeltsin as president, in nearly monarchical fashion.
Cohen's thesis is that Yeltsin, rather than Russia's first democratic leader, was a neoczarist bumbler who destroyed a democratization process that, in fact, should be credited to Mikhail Gorbachev. As for Primakov, rather than the Communist-era ogre so labeled by the American media, he was a "centrist by nature," and the only prime minister to rely on Parliament rather than on the oligarchs. And whereas reformers such as Anatoly Chubais, the darling of America's Russia experts, were despised throughout Russia for colluding with the oligarchs to destroy living standards, Primakov, hated in Washington, was popular at home for steering between radical reform and Communism, in order to alleviate the suffering of ordinary people.
Cohen is particularly scathing toward American journalists, whom he depicts as overly influenced by the prosperity of a small, rapacious upper class in the major Russian cities, and who seldom ventured into the countryside to see the terrible price of the reformers' handiwork. For example, he derides an editorial in The New York Times for celebrating a new McDonald's in Moscow, frequented by the nouveau riche arriving in Jeep Cherokees and Toyota Land Cruisers, while the average monthly wage "was about $60, and falling." Though, broadly speaking, his criticism of the American press is valid, there are important exceptions, notably the travel writer Jeffrey Tayler, who wrote extensively for The Atlantic Monthly about the most distant parts of rural Russia in the 1990's, substantiating Cohen's own claims about the destruction of living standards.
Cohen's argument is impressively confirmed in its essentials by Chrystia Freeland's "Sale of the Century." Freeland, a former Moscow bureau chief for The Financial Times, has written one of the finest works of journalism on post-Soviet Russia. In an often witty, savvy style that demonstrates a thorough knowledge of economics and of Russian society, she has reconstructed the inside story of how Russia was undermined by a new establishment composed of oligarchs and reformers, each of whom needed the other. By giving away the major companies to these tycoons, she writes, "Russia was robbed in broad daylight, by businessmen who broke no laws, assisted by the West's best friends in the Kremlin -- the young reformers."
The result was a "capitalist politburo" supporting "a narrow layer of the super-rich," while destitute people in the hinterlands, robbed of the value of their life savings by the reformers' price liberalization, froze to death in snowbanks. Freeland reports that it was Primakov who "was determined to weaken the oligarchs' grip . . . and his campaign against them had more muscle" than that of the young reformers. She notes, too, that the "moral sensitivity" of the Gorbachev era -- in which the public was repelled by the use of force in Lithuania -- gave way to indifference during the Yeltsin years, in which the "blood bath" perpetrated by Russian troops in Chechnya offended almost nobody.
However, while American triumphalism and navete contributed to Russia's economic free fall in the 1990's, it does not follow that American officials and economists are morally culpable. Embattled policy makers like Strobe Talbott, the State Department's Russia czar, had only distasteful options at their disposal. Moreover, if Russia does improve economically and morally in the coming years, the last 10 may not seem in retrospect as awful as Cohen, in particular, depicts them. On the other hand, a decade of chaos has fostered, among average Russians, a longing for order that could legitimize a new and lethal despotism under Putin. The historian Martin Malia has argued that it is the "heavy Soviet heritage, not the mistakes of the last decade, real though those are, that is the major source of the present impasse." It is that burdensome past that has blunted the West's influence. Indeed, Cohen himself sounds somewhat like a missionary by ascribing so much importance to his own society's impact on such a distant, vast and intractable country. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (92%); SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (92%); SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); WRITERS (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (66%); RELIGION (62%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN F COHEN (95%); BORIS YELTSIN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



167 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 32; Column 4; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 10-08-00: Phenomenon;
Crowning Miss Navajo

BYLINE: By Lisa Jones

 BODY:
The Miss Navajo Pageant isn't about sex. It's about cultural preservation. That's why there's no swimsuit competition, and contestants spend about as much time in standard pageant-issue evening gowns as it takes to boil an egg. "If there was a swimsuit competition, I would never enter," said 19-year-old Leslie John, one of the dozens of junior princesses and regional Miss Navajos who came last month to watch the five-day pageant in Window Rock, Ariz. "I could have smelled like sheep, and it would have been fine." Indeed, the year before, contenders for the Miss Navajo crown had competed in sheep butchering. "You need the hooves to hang it up with," recalled Floranda Dempsey, the only one of this year's four contestants who competed last year. "But we cut their whole hooves off. We made a huge mess." She laughed. "It was a female. We cut into the breast. Milk everywhere!"
Instead, the women, outfitted most of the time in moccasins and crushed velvet dresses or tunics that resemble Navajo rugs, with their hair pulled back, had to explain the background of the Treaty of 1868 -- in Navajo. And card wool. And spin it. And demonstrate rug weaving. (Some of the modern contests involved demonstrating CPR, reciting Natalie Merchant lyrics in poetic form and doing aerobics.) They seemed to have the hardest time when they each built a fire, heaped shortening in pans and prepared fry bread -- a traditional food that resembles a Frisbee-size sopaipilla. Karletta Chief, a Ph.D. candidate in environmental engineering and science at Stanford and the daughter of a Baptist preacher, stared angrily at the frying pan resting on her fire. A judge had asked her, in Navajo, about lighting the fire, and she had answered using the word "liver" when she meant to say "bark." Valerie Jones, who has a degree in social work from Northern Arizona University, struggled to keep her fire going and looked sad. She had said "lightning" instead of "match." ("Those elderly lady judges," she noted afterward, "they really scare us. Because we respect them so much.") Dempsey, whose spoken Navajo has improved significantly since a medicine man addressed the problem with a ceremony for her, encountered a different problem: she usually uses powdered milk in her recipe, but the pageant hadn't provided any. 
 Pageant or no pageant, counteracting cultural entropy isn't for the uncommitted. "A lot of the homes don't speak Navajo anymore," says Jones. "They don't tell the stories. If it comes to the point where no one's using the corn pollen anymore and if the medicine men are all gone, pretty soon we'll be lost." Young people flee the reservation, a swath of high desert and canyons the size of Ireland that sprawls over parts of New Mexico, Utah and Arizona, and its 43 percent unemployment rate to find work. Or they bring in the outside world with satellite dishes, which the Wal-Mart nearby in Gallup, N. M., can't keep in stock. Just about every woman over the age of 60 at the Navajo Nation Fair, where the pageant was being held, had decked herself out in traditional velvet and satin and turquoise. The younger women wore sweat pants and T-shirts, or tight tops and shorts.
This past year the pressures to represent the culture properly have been even greater than usual. The reigning Miss Navajo, Victoria Yazzie, didn't show up for the first couple of days, prompting officials to consider sending out a policeman to retrieve her crown. A month earlier, in August, the increasingly acrimonious relationship between Yazzie and her staff had degenerated into rumors of pregnancy (which a medical test proved false) and a five-day suspension. "This is ridiculous," said Louise Nelson, proprietor of the Taste the Nation fry-bread booth at the fairgrounds. "She's the people's choice, our Navajo princess. The Navajo Nation government should worry about themselves and quit bothering Miss Navajo."
Yazzie's successor was named on a clear, cold Saturday night. The coronation was the high point of the Navajo Nation Fair, which people attend from all over the reservation for its parade, rodeo, rides, bands and pageant. Gorgeously plumed Aztecs, painted Apaches, grass-skirted Maoris and Zuni maidens balancing pots on their heads danced around the dirt-floored stadium. Yazzie took a lap on a Corvette covered with Navajo rugs, waved at the crowd and exchanged gifts and pleasantries with high tribal officials. The two finalists, Chief and Dempsey, stood frozen and grim in the floodlights. Then the emcee boomed, "Karletta Chief!" Chief convulsed with surprise, smiled, waved her tiny arm at the crowd and climbed into the Corvette for a slow lap around the stadium. She would spend a large part of the coming year in a car, driving from school to school to talk to Navajo kids about their culture. She would play host to a monthly traditional-skills workshop at the Navajo Nation Museum. She would be open to every kind of criticism. (As soon as she was crowned, one spectator lamented her family's Christian affiliation. A vendor at the fair had pronounced her "a city girl," although she grew up in a one-room house without heat or running water.) Still, Chief beamed and waved and appeared to get used to the idea. Lisa Jones
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Paul Natonabah/Navaho Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); ARIZONA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MAMMALS (90%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (72%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (67%); CARPET & RUG MILLS (66%); ENGINEERING (64%); 

PERSON: NAVAJO PAGEANT (98%); VICTORIA YAZZIE (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



168 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 11; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
A Master Returns to His Realm

BYLINE: By DAVID THOMSON; David Thomson is the author of "A Biographical Dictionary of Film" and, most recently, "In Nevada: The Land, the People, God and Chance."

 BODY:
THE 2000 New York Film Festival, as much as any in recent years, has been a celebration of Asian film: Edward Yang's "Yi Yi"; Wong Kar-wai's "In the Mood for Love"; Im Kwon-Taek's "Chunhyang"; Takeshi Kitano's "Brother"; "Platform," by Jia Zhang Ke; and, of course, Ang Lee's "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon," which takes him back to his Asian roots. Yet that list omits the least expected and perhaps most welcome offering -- the Japanese film "Taboo" ("Gohatto"), which marks the return to feature filmmaking of Nagisa Oshima after a 14-year absence.
Some day, some writer must attempt a study of directorial careers that takes in rhythm, stamina, neurosis and confidence, plus the waning of impulse or need as well as the passion that sometimes creates several great films a year. Suffice it to say that in the late 1970's and early 80's any film buff asked to name the most dynamic living Japanese director would have answered Oshima. Yes, Akira Kurosawa was alive and active still, but, even in those days, "Kagemusha" (1980) and "Ran" (1985) were regarded as the nostalgia of an old master, a little too much in love with horsemen, lances, banners and mist. 
 Kurosawa turned 70 in 1980, while Mr. Oshima was not yet 50. Born in 1932, and a graduate of Kyoto University (he majored in law and political science), he had entered film in 1954 and been an assistant to Yoshitano Nomura and Masaki Kobayashi. It was by way of screenwriting that he came to make his directing debut, in 1959, with "A Town of Love and Hope." By 1971, he had made 18 films and had begun appearing on Japanese television. The rush of production was Godardian, and the two men were over-compared if only because of that enthusiasm, and because of their concentration on young people in situations where emotional and political life were interactive.
In fact, that was a greater achievement for Mr. Oshima who, for the most part, insisted on modernity in Japanese films, despite the traditional respect for period subjects. Nor was Mr. Oshima tempted by the classical family stories in which Yasujiro Ozu and Kenji Mizoguchi had done some of their greatest work.
Rather, he saw the ferment of postwar Japan, the incongruities of tradition and liberty and the ways in which Japanese experience was mirrored in Europe and America. Mr. Oshima was an intellectual, well aware of Western art and literature, conversant with politics, and determined to address the special Japanese view of the 60's.
He was also a very assured operator in diverse styles: he could do documentary and surrealism; he could take an ordinary story out of the newspapers, see its historical resonance, and then recast the journalistic mode as something like Brechtian theater. It was not easy to see all his films in the 60's, and there is pressing need now for an Oshima retrospective, if only to measure his influence on a younger generation throughout Asia.
But his pictures are extraordinary, from "Cruel Story of Youth," "The Sun's Burial," "Night and Fog in Japan" (all 1960); through "Japanese Summer: Double Suicide" (1967), "Death by Hanging," "Three Resurrected Drunkards," "Diary of a Shinjuku Thief (all 1968); "Boy" (1969) and "The Ceremony" (1971). By turns agitprop and lyrically beautiful, they were committed to the notion that the cinema can unearth the buried elements in a nation's psyche.
On the festival circuit, and in what was then an intense film culture, Mr. Oshima's stock stood very high. He had always been preoccupied with sexuality, violence and death. He was especially horrified by the sexual taboos still current in Japan, and he was driven to see sexual expression as the natural reaction to all other problems and social restrictions. Grant also that in the 60's the sexual temperature of all movies was rising, plus the forgivable possibility that Mr. Oshima wanted more success, and it is understandable that he did what he did.
He made what are still two of the most notorious erotic films ever to test our censors -- "In the Realm of the Senses" (1976) and "Empire of Passion" (1978).
Both were French co-productions, with Anatole Dauman as producer, and both were aimed at worldwide audiences. Such sensations date very fast, alas, and there is surely a generation of filmgoers now that has hardly heard of them. "In the Realm of the Senses," set in 1936, is about a pair of illicit lovers who abandon all sense of reason or the outer world to pursue each other's bodies. Lovemaking excludes all else in life -- or does it just hold back all the rules, codes and intrusions that want to smother desire? The affair becomes increasingly sadomasochistic, and finally the woman strangles the man and cuts off his penis.
"Empire of Passion," set in 1895, concerns an adulterous love affair that is haunted by the ghost of the murdered husband. This time the sexual need is undercut by the disposition of the partners toward guilt. It is not, I think, as good or necessary a film as "In the Realm of the Senses," which is both carnally exquisite and emotionally claustrophobic. There is at least a hint that the second film was made to cash in on the first -- which is another reason for wanting a candid study of careers.
MR. OSHIMA was by then something Japanese film had never known -- an international figure, prepared to work in the English language. There is some evidence that he found that status difficult. After a gap of four years, and with the Englishmen Jeremy Thomas as producer and Paul Mayersberg (the writer of "Croupier") as his co-screenwriter, he made "Merry Christmas, Mr. Lawrence," from a Laurens van der Post novel about British officers in a Japanese prisoner-of-war camp.
This is a spectacular, fascinating film -- with David Bowie as one of the leads and with a superb score by Ryuichi Sakamoto (who also plays the Japanese camp commander). But Mr. Bowie really couldn't act well enough to bridge some unease in the cross-cultural ambitions. Still, "Merry Christmas" is far better than "Max, Mon Amour" (1986), in which Charlotte Rampling falls in love with a gorilla. With a script by Bunuel's pet writer, Jean-Claude Carriere, this ought to have made a delicious comedy, but it seems shy of its own material and potential outrage. It's as if Mr. Oshima had become weary of notoriety.
That was the last Oshima feature film before "Taboo." What happened? There were two documentaries -- one about Kyoto, the other a history of Japanese film -- and there were attempts to make somethingcalled "Hollywood Zen." He also had a television show in which he offered advice for the problems of women. But in 1996, at Heathrow airport, Mr. Oshima had a stroke. He lost a great deal of movement and most of his speech. But with exceptional willpower he has regained enough of both to be able to work and to resume his television show. Still, it leaves "Taboo" as the work of someone for whom movement is all the more precious.
Unsurprisingly, it is a surprise. For this is a kind of samurai film, a study of what happens to an order of warriors in the 1860's when a ravishing young man joins them. The taboo here is homosexuality, and the tone is clear, chill and ironic. But there are many able-bodied directors who do not have Oshima's eye or his economical storytelling. Of course, samurai and swords are very familiar, and "Taboo" is more withdrawn than Mr. Oshima's greatest work. Yet no one else could have done this. Will there be more? It's not clear. The last shots of "Taboo" are filled with a breathtaking grace, and they could be seen as a Prospero-like farewell. But Mr. Oshima's return restores our sense of film history, and the vital way in which he pioneered modernism in Japanese cinema.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ryuhei Matsuda, as a 19th-century samurai, displays an opponent's head in "Taboo." (New Yorker Films)(pg. 11); The director Nagisa Oshima, center, on the set of "Taboo" with, from left, the director of photography Toyomichi Kurita and two actors, Ryuhei Matsuda and Takeshi Kitano. (New Yorker Films)(pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); LITERATURE (69%); WRITERS (69%); 

PERSON: AKIRA KUROSAWA (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



169 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 2881 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC;
So You Can Buy Love After All

BYLINE: By ALLAN KOZINN

 BODY:
I ADORE the Met, there's no question about that," Alberto W. Vilar said. "I go into that place, and I get goose pimples. Wow, this is the Met! My rich friends laugh at me, because I sit in the same seat every night, in the first row. A101, that's my seat. I want to watch the conductor, the pit, the stage. Not only that, I hold court. My friends come up. They know where I am."
If anyone has earned -- or at least, purchased -- the right to hold court at the Met, it is Mr. Vilar, a 60-year-old Cuban-American investor and opera fan who has lately been parlaying his acuity in the world of high-tech stocks into a philanthropic boon for the opera world. A member of the board of the Metropolitan Opera since 1995, he contributed $25 million to the company's endowment fund, and he has pledged to underwrite 10 Met productions, at about $2 million apiece. So far, he has paid for the company's productions of "Cosi Fan Tutte," "La Cenerentola," "La Traviata" and "Le Nozze di Figaro." 
 The "Fidelio" that opens on Friday evening will be the fifth, and Busoni's "Doktor Faust," a co-production with the Salzburg Festival in Austria, is due in January. Next season, the $2.5 million production of Prokofiev's "War and Peace" that Mr. Vilar underwrote at the Kirov Opera in St. Petersburg comes to the Met, having been seen at Covent Garden in London and at La Scala in Milan, all on his tab.
Mr. Vilar has not been shy about demanding displays of gratitude commensurate with such gifts. At the Met, for example, an operagoer may now sit in the Vilar Grand Tier or dine at the pricey Vilar Grand Tier Restaurant. As a result, he has become an easy target for critical barbs, particularly in Europe, where the twin traditions of private philanthropy and the aggrandizement of donors have been dormant since the days of Ludwig II of Bavaria, but lately in the United States as well. "If this less-than-reticent entrepreneur wishes to compel his beneficiaries to splash his name all over their buildings and his face in their programs, fair enough," an unnamed critic wrote with thinly veiled hostility in The Wall Street Journal last month. "He has certainly paid his dues -- and everybody else's as well."
Indeed, Joseph Volpe, the Met's general manager, said recently that "if he's not our biggest donor, he surely will be in no time."
And that's just the Met. Last month, Mr. Vilar held a news conference in Beverly Hills, Calif., with the tenor Placido Domingo and the conductor Valery Gergiev, at which he announced $24 million in gifts to the Los Angeles Opera, where Mr. Domingo is the artistic director, and the Kirov Opera and Ballet, which Mr. Gergiev directs. Last season, Mr. Vilar contributed $17 million toward refurbishing the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden.
Nor does he confine his largess to opera. Carnegie Hall is on Mr. Vilar's gift list for $5.6 million, some to restore the Seventh Avenue facade, some to support five years of Vienna Philharmonic visits. Unfazed by politics, musical or otherwise, he has given $6 million to the Salzburg Festival; he scoffs at the notion of boycotting the festival because of Jorg Haider's ascent to power in Austria. And as starry singers like Hans Sotin and Waltraud Meier were bailing out of the Bayreuth Festival in Germany after disputes with Wolfgang Wagner, the festival's embattled director, Mr. Vilar offered to pay for a production of "Tannhauser" in 2002, a gift that reportedly helped keep Mr. Wagner in power.
More personalized gifts spring from Mr. Vilar's deep pockets as well. Having spent $10 million to build the Vilar Center for the Arts in Beaver Creek, Col., where he maintains one of his nine homes, Mr. Vilar provides an annual $1 million for artists' fees. Similarly, he spends $2 million a year on the Vilar Distinguished Artists Series at his alma mater, Washington and Jefferson College, in Washington, Pa., so that students can attend classical-music performances at no charge.
And then there's the small change: grants of less than $1 million to John Eliot Gardiner's Monteverdi Choir (for its Bach Pilgrimage cantata series), the Lyric Opera of Chicago (to import Handel's "Alcina" from the Paris Opera) and Mr. Domingo's traveling Operalia vocal competition (which gives an Alberto Vilar Award).
All told, Mr. Vilar has given or pledged about $150 million to musical organizations in recent seasons. In return, the organizations that have received his largest grants have been glorifying him on plaques and building facades, in program books and even advertisements. In addition to the Vilar Grand Tier at the Met, there is the Vilar Floral Hall, a restored Victorian structure at Covent Garden. In Carnegie Hall's season prospectus, the hall's board "gratefully acknowledges the generosity of Alberto Vilar" beneath each of the three Vienna Philharmonic program listings. At the Salzburg Festival this year, his photograph greeted festivalgoers as they entered the main hall. Both Salzburg and the Kirov now devote a page in their program books to him, complete with color photographs.
RODNEY MILNES, reviewing the Salzburg Festival for The Times of London in August, noted that "the ubiquitous Alberto Vilar seems to have moved in in a big way," and lampooned the program book's tribute page. "I suppose it's good to have the price tags for such things established," he wrote, "but it's starting to look as though the future of opera will depend on the whim of a Cuban-American stock market investor with a love of music."
In Mr. Vilar's view, such criticism misses the point.
"I think the single most important reason for recognition is to set an example to other potential donors," he said. "When you have your name on a building, it says, 'Here's a world-class person who is giving money, and he chose us.' Isn't that a message?
"People say, 'Oh, rich guy, he's got to be pampered.' I think that's so unfair. You've taken Finance 102. What is the positive impact of my gifts? More people see opera. Costs are down. Productions are better. More people are trained. And for somebody to take a cheap shot at someone for having his name on the wall, that really gets my dander up. I think it's insane. It's destructive. It's perverse."
Yet for all Mr. Vilar's insistence that the required recognition is meant to set an example, there is a hefty measure of self-congratulatory machismo in his enumeration of his gifts, and he clearly enjoys his place at the head of the parade. An hourlong discussion at the spacious Park Avenue offices of his firm, Amerindo Investment Advisors, was speckled with reminders that his contributions are unsurpassed.
"We don't have data," he said, "but I think anyone will tell you that I'm the largest supporter of classical music, opera and ballet in the world." He is, he noted, "the biggest donor in the history of the Salzburg Festival" as well as "the largest single contributor" to Covent Garden's reconstruction. He gave "the first gift ever to Bayreuth" and is waging "a one-man campaign overseas to bring private philanthropy to Europe." Of the Kirov production that is coming to the Met, he said: "This 'War and Peace': $2.5 million, great opera. It will be shown in less than 18 months at four of the top houses in the world, paid for by one guy."
Gerard Mortier, the artistic director of the Salzburg Festival, doesn't regard Mr. Vilar's desire for recognition as a problem.
"No, no, no, no," Mr. Mortier said of reports that Mr. Vilar had demanded that the festival replace his entrance-hall picture with a bust. "He always wanted a picture, and for me this is fine. If he wanted a bust, that would be O.K. with me, too. I don't care. What I care about is that the right productions are supported and that we can do new things.
"In Salzburg, we have people who will support only Baroque music or Mozart concertos. And for me this is much more dubious than Alberto asking to have his picture in the hall. People like Alberto, and also Betty Freeman, support my entire policy and make no conditions. And that makes a lot possible."
Mr. Vilar does have priorities. He is, for example, increasingly interested in underwriting productions that will travel to several cities. The productions of "Doktor Faust" and "War and Peace" are cases in point, and in making his recent gifts to the Los Angeles Opera and the Kirov, he encouraged them to build productions that can be shared.
He is also passionate about the training of young artists. He makes an annual gift to the Met to support the Lindemann Young Artist Development Program. He is paying for a similar program at the Kirov. Part of his gift to the Los Angeles Opera is earmarked for young artists, and he is about to announce a $10 million young artists' program at Covent Garden.
Mr. Vilar professes an interest, too, in "seeding the market," making opera accessible to future fans. To that end, he is buying a multi language form of the seat-back libretto system the Met uses, for several European houses, starting with Covent Garden, Salzburg and the Vienna State Opera. He is also negotiating to buy a share in Figaro Systems, the company that makes the titles.
"He likes the idea of his money going farther and supporting more organizations," said Michael Kaiser, who recently resigned as executive director of Covent Garden and becomes president of the Kennedy Center in Washington in February. "He has certain priorities, concepts and ideas about what he wants to do. It's not just about buying the prettiest package we can buy this week."
IF Mr. Vilar's philanthropy has made him ubiquitous lately, only five years ago hardly anyone in the classical-music world knew his name. Born in Newark in 1940, the son of a Cuban sugar executive, he spent his first nine years in Cuba and the next nine in Puerto Rico. By the time he was 10, he had developed a fascination with classical music, and he dreamed of becoming a conductor, a career his father discouraged. Mr. Vilar moved to Pennsylvania to study economics at Washington and Jefferson.
After two years in the United States Army, he worked briefly for Citibank before becoming a portfolio manager for private investment firms, and in the late 60's, he earned a master's degree in economics from Iona College in New Rochelle, N.Y. In the 70's, he became convinced of the economic promise of nascent computer technology companies, and since his employers did not share that enthusiasm, he and a partner started Amerindo. Thanks to his prescient stock picks -- he bought Microsoft, Cisco Systems, America Online and Yahoo when they were start-ups -- Amerindo now manages about $10 billion.
Along the way, Mr. Vilar became a billionaire. (He would not disclose his net worth.) And he adopted a jet-set existence, dividing his business time between New York and London; he thinks nothing of crossing the Atlantic to catch performances. In New York, Mr. Vilar, who is divorced, maintains a two-floor, 30-room pied-a-terre on the East Side, complete with replicas of the Met's rising chandeliers.
But he has made a point of sharing his wealth, and the arts are not his only cause. After his left arm was shattered in a skiing accident in 1996 and reconstructed at the Hospital for Special Surgery in New York, he donated $12 million to establish the Alberto Vilar Center for Research of the Hand and the Upper Extremity at the hospital. And besides covering the concert series at Washington and Jefferson, he paid for the school's $28 million Vilar Center for Technology, a computer-science facility. Now under negotiation are educational projects that may cost him $100 million and proposals from several hospitals. Within three years, he said, his donations to educational and health-care institutions will equal those for music.
How does he deal with all this, run a business and still have time to catch about 100 opera performances a year?
"I guess there's no question that I'm highly motivated," he said. "I have my company, which is 12 hours a day, five days a week. And how I do it is, first, I have a multimillion-dollar salaried expense for staffers who take care of my philanthropies. While I'm talking to you, there are six people around the world running up the meter doing things for me. Second, this is my life. I don't play golf. I don't go bowling. I go to performances. And third, I don't have any kiddies. These projects in music, education and health care are my kiddies. Music is my family, and it's my way to socialize."
While his musical tastes lean toward the standard repertory, he is quick to note that he has nothing against unusual opera. But he is cautious about it. Mr. Mortier, of Salzburg, once took him to see Messiaen's opera, "St. Francois d'Assise," in a vain attempt to persuade him to underwrite performances at the Lincoln Center Festival. Still, he has paid for productions outside the standard repertory, like "Doktor Faust," "War and Peace" and "Alcina." Charles Kaye, a London arts consultant who helps arrange Mr. Vilar's donations, pointed out that the Salzburg gift helped cover the new-music series as well as new opera productions.
"I will tell you, his taste is more advanced than that of most Americans," Mr. Mortier said. "He is very open-minded. He listens. He wants to discover new music and new stagings. When Robert Wilson came to New York with his production of 'Lohengrin,' Alberto was one of the few who liked it."
Because operatic philanthropy has come to occupy such a central part of his life, Mr. Vilar is irked by the biting remarks directed at him in the press. And increasingly, the kind of criticism leveled by Mr. Milnes has cropped up in the American press as well. That unsigned article in The Wall Street Journal last month echoed Mr. Milnes's worry about opera being subject to Mr. Vilar's "whim," accusing him of using his wealth to "manipulate world opera," with the Bayreuth gift as a case in point.
He has been known to flex his economic muscle. When the San Francisco Opera was searching for a general director to succeed Lotfi Mansouri next season, Mr. Vilar let it be known that he was interested in two candidates: Mr. Mortier, who is relinquishing his Salzburg post next year, and Sarah Billinghurst, the Met's assistant manager for artistic matters, whose previous job was at the San Francisco company. By his own account, Mr. Vilar told the company that "if either one of them went there, they could count on my support." When Pamela Rosenberg, the artistic director of the Stuttgart Opera in Germany, was chosen instead, he made the Los Angeles Opera his principal West Coast beneficiary.
But the fear that Mr. Vilar will make the opera world his personal plaything may be overstated. He is an enthusiast at heart and is in awe of the singers, conductors and directors who put opera on the stage.
"He doesn't interfere artistically," said Mr. Kaiser, formerly of Covent Garden. "He has never said a word to me about what we should be doing or not doing."
Mr. Vilar's own example of his hands-off policy is the Met's "Traviata." He underwrote it partly in the hope of seeing Roberto Alagna and Angela Gheorghiu in the lead roles, as originally planned. But when a dispute led Mr. Volpe to withdraw the singers' contracts, Mr. Vilar neither interceded nor threatened to withdraw his support. His laissez-faire approach stands in stark contrast to the demands made by Sybil Harrington, his predecessor as the Met's biggest contributor, who placed artistic conditions on her support.
"It's not that kind of relationship," Mr. Volpe said. "Sybil would say: 'I'll give my money if you hire this director or that director. I won't give you my money if you hire so and so." There's none of that from Alberto. He is the perfect underwriter in that sense. He doesn't come in to look at drawings. He sees the productions when everyone else does, and he's as nervous about them as everyone else is. I don't know anybody like him, and I don't mean that in a negative way."
That said, Mr. Volpe questions Mr. Vilar's theory that splashy expressions of recognition are necessary to lure new donors.
"I'm on the fence about it," said Mr. Volpe, who has been fending off suggestions from both the Met's board and its development department that donors of new productions should take curtain calls at the premieres and that their names should be included both on advertising posters and in the electronic titles.
"There are some people who give a lot of money and who don't want credit," Mr. Volpe said. "If you look back, in the last two or three decades a lot of money has come to the Met from people who do not wish to have their picture, credit and all those things. I do agree that he should get credit, that one should recognize what he is doing. And I think we have made some changes here to do that.
"But you know," he said, pushing a copy of the Kirov program, opened to the full-page tribute to Mr. Vilar, across his desk, "I don't think there's any likelihood that this is going to happen at the Met."
Would he refuse Mr. Vilar's request for a page in the program book?
"I didn't say that," he replied. "I'm saying that things take time here. So the likelihood of this happening while I'm still in this job is very low."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alberto W. Vilar, the investment adviser and philanthropist, in his seat in the front row of the Metropolitan Opera House. "I want to watch the conductor, the pit, the stage," he said. "Not only that, I hold court." (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Alberto Vilar, center, with the conductor Valery Gergiev, left, and the tenor Placido Domingo at a recent press conference in Beverly Hills. (Associated Press)(pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (78%); AUSTRIA (56%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (56%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (78%); AUSTRIA (56%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (56%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. OPERA (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); PHILANTHROPY (88%); CHARITIES (88%); FESTIVALS (76%); ENDOWMENTS (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); RESTAURANTS (62%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: ALBERTO W VILAR (94%); PLACIDO DOMINGO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



170 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: In Evanston, Ill., a Downtown Revitalization

BYLINE: By JILL SCHACHNER CHANEN

 BODY:
AFTER languishing for more than 10 years, downtown Evanston, Ill., is experiencing a threefold increase in development this year with an estimated $200 million worth of new residential and commercial projects under way.
 Five buildings with a total of more than 350 condominium apartments have been started this year in the downtown area of this north shore Chicago suburb, which is perhaps best known as the home of Northwestern University, and two more buildings are planned. This is up sharply from 29 apartments last year and a total of 167 over the last five years, according to city officials. "Ordinarily, in a good construction season, throughout the city we will see about $70 million worth of construction, which includes residential, commercial and university," said James Wolinski, director of Evanston's Department of Building and Zoning. "This year it's $200 million." 
 Developers say the new residential development in Evanston is, in part, an outgrowth of a condominium boom in downtown Chicago, which is only 15 miles to the south. Buyers in downtown Chicago, where over 6,000 new condominium apartments have been built in the last five years, are paying upward of $275 per square foot for newly constructed condominium apartments. Evanston developers say they are taking advantage of the demand for condominium apartments and marketing their apartments to would-be city purchasers at prices that are lower by $50 to $75 per square foot. In Evanston, one-bedroom apartments are selling for an average price of $148,000, while a two-bedroom is selling for an average of $215,000.
 Also drawing buyers is the infusion of new commercial activity in downtown Evanston, including a soon-to-be-completed 18-screen movie theater, a Hilton Gardens hotel and more than 250,000 square feet of retail space, which will be anchored by a new Sears department store.
 Evanston is an ethnically diverse city that has long attracted a mix of affluent families and young single professionals because of its urban feel in a suburban setting along the shores of Lake Michigan and because of its proximity to downtown Chicago. The city's downtown, however, did not keep pace. In the mid-1980's, the Marshall Field's department store in Evanston was closed, leaving behind a smattering of small retail shops, restaurants and old office buildings. The department store's building was turned into a mixed-use development of loft apartments and retail spaces.
 Three years ago the city of Evanston set the stage for the downtown area's revitalization when it modified plans to convert a parcel of downtown land into a high-tech research park. The land was previously used as a sanitation yard and for storage facilities for the city and Northwestern University. Though four research buildings were built on the property, the city decided to use the remainder of the land for a mixed-use development to help infuse new life into the downtown. The property is now the site of the new movie theater complex, hotel and a soon-to-be-built residential high-rise building.
 WHEN they made the decision to change the research park, it was significant," said Jim Klutznick, a principal in Sherman Plaza Venture, a development partnership that plans to raze nearly an entire city block in the center of downtown and rebuild it with the 250,000 square feet of retail space that includes Sears. The project will also include an upscale 200-unit senior citizen's apartment building that will be operated by the Senior Lifestyle Corporation of Chicago. Construction of the retail space and parking lot is scheduled to being next spring and be completed by early 2002. Construction on the seniors' residence is to begin in 2002, according to Mr. Klutznick.
 Mr. Klutznick, like other developers, said that without these new commercial and retail developments, the residential projects might not have drawn as much interest.
 Thomas Roszak, a residential developer with three current projects in Evanston, agrees. "Downtown Evanston has really started to rejuvenate in the last five years with Starbucks, Barnes & Noble, brick paving on the sidewalks and new landscaping," he said. "You throw that all into the pot, and it really is a fabulous place to live."
 He recently sold every apartment in a 31-unit condominium building on Sherman Avenue at the southern tip of Evanston's downtown. The building occupies a once-vacant parcel that fronted the railroad tracks for the city's elevated train line. Prices for the units ranged from $118,000 for a 811-square-foot one-bedroom apartment to $274,000 for a 1,840-square-foot three-bedroom, two-bathroom apartment, according to Mr. Roszak, principal of Roszak ADC in Chicago.
 Now Mr. Roszak is completing the construction of a 23-unit condominium apartment building on a property adjacent to his other project. All but two of those units have sales contracts, he said. Prices range from $153,000 for a 805-square-foot one-bedroom apartment to $445,000 for a 2,325-square-foot three-bedroom, two-bathroom apartment.
 Later this year Mr. Roszak will begin construction on a 156-unit condominium apartment building just a couple of blocks from his other buildings. Mr. Roszak is selling these apartments in phases and, so far, 25 of the 54 units in the first phase are sold. Prices in this building range from $132,000 for a 600-square-foot studio apartment to $354,000 for a 1,625-square-foot three-bedroom, two-bathroom apartment.
 This building, called Chicago Avenue Place, will also have a doorman and an indoor pool. Mr. Roszak said.
 Mr. Roszak believes that downtown Evanston is starting to lure buyers from Chicago because property is more affordable and the city now has more to offer its residents. "If you can get an apartment that is 10 percent to 15 percent less, people will make the move here because Evanston is so geographically close to Chicago," he said.
 Janis Battle, 53, a widowed empty nester, bought one of the three-bedroom apartments in Mr. Roszak's first project after debating whether to move into Chicago. Price was not an issue for her, but lifestyle was. She moved to Evanston this year from Wilmette, a neighboring suburb to the north of Evanston, after selling her single-family house there.
"I felt more comfortable living in Evanston because it had all the advantages of an urban lifestyle without all the congestion of the city," she said. "The other thing I like about living in Evanston is that it is pretty easy to develop a sense of community here. When I go into Starbucks, they know what I drink. I know the soup guy. You can get to know your neighborhood and recognize people on the street."
Ms. Battle fits the demographics of potential buyers for another new condominium apartment building that is part of a mixed-use development just blocks away from her building. Developers of the project at 515 Main Street expected to draw empty nesters from Evanston and neighboring suburbs as well as young first-time buyers looking for better values than they could find in the city of Chicago. Almost half of the buyers have come from within a five-block radius of the building, said Steven Maher, a sales agent with Garrison Partners of Chicago, which is marketing the building.
 The nine-story building will offer street level retail space anchored by a bank, indoor parking and 63 apartments spread out over the top seven floors. Prices range from $150,000 for a 900-square-foot one-bedroom apartment to $350,000 for a 1,500-square-foot three-bedroom apartment, Mr. Maher said.
 Construction is under way, with first move-ins expected in the spring. All 63 apartments in the building are sold
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: This 31-unit condominium building on Sherman Avenue occupies a once-vacant parcel of land fronting an elevated train line. Prices range from $118,000 for a one-bedroom apartment to $274,000 for a three-bedroom unit. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)
 
Map of Chicago shows the location of Evanston

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (83%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (95%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (83%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (57%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (57%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (95%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (92%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (88%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); LAKES (71%); SUBURBS (71%); RESTAURANTS (63%); MOVIE THEATERS (50%); 

PERSON: JIM KLUTZNICK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



171 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 12; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1398 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Speculative Warehouses Head South on Turnpike

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

 BODY:
THE development of big boxy warehouses continues its march southward along the New Jersey Turnpike, most recently arriving at Exit 6A, where an industrial park is under way that will ultimately contain eight million square feet of space.
Construction is to start this month on two speculative warehouses, totaling 540,000 square feet, at the Haines Industrial Center. It is rising on 700 acres between the Delaware River and Route 130, one mile from the interchange, in Burlington and Florence Townships in Burlington County. 
 The planned buildings join two others, totaling 1.13 million square feet, developed at the center since it was started last October. The earlier structures have drawn National Freight and the B. J.'s Wholesale Club as tenants, according to the developer, the Whitesell Construction Company of Delran, an active commercial builder in South Jersey.
The project reflects the continuing strength of the state's industrial market, as well as efforts by Burlington County to revive the Route 130 corridor. The corridor, a thriving retail strip that has fallen on hard times, extends from Florence 16 miles south to Cinnaminson. "It is certainly key to the redevelopment of, and brings a new mix of uses to, the corridor," James K. Wujcik, director of the Burlington County Board of Freeholders, said of the project.
Officials in Florence and Burlington said they supported the development of the Haines center site but noted that it been a long time in coming. For years, the county envisioned the site as a regional food distribution center, which was never realized.
Robert A. Richards Jr. the president of Whitesell, which bought the site in 1998, said Haines Industrial Center would cost $300 million. "We expect to complete it in five years, with some luck," he said.
The Haines Industrial Center is the new kid on the warehouse distribution block in the state. It competes with the established northerly markets at Exit 8A in Middlesex County and Exit 7A in Mercer County for regional tenants seeking 300,000 square feet or more.
Such tenants will gravitate to those markets that can accommodate their size, which they need to expand or consolidate scattered operations under one roof as well as to set up central distribution hubs, said Frank V. Caccavo Jr., a senior director at the Iselin office of Cushman & Wakefield, the real estate services concern. His company says that there are at least six tenants with requirements of 300,000 square feet or more currently in the market.
John Horan, a senior vice president at the Laurence Harbor office of Coldwell Banker Commercial Feist & Feist, another brokerage, added, "The 6A market does not spell the end of 8A, which will continue to fill up, first because its centralized location can't be beat, particularly for tenants who want to be closer to Manhattan."
Speculative development at Exit 8A continues, as developers put up buildings to meet the demand for large modern warehouse space. Three such buildings are under way, totaling 1.6 million square feet and there are approvals in place for 2 million more square feet.
IN the last year, however, leasing activity fell to 1.1 million square feet from 2 million. Mr. Caccavo said the decrease "is due to the lack of completed new buildings in the first half of the year." He said activity would bounce back by the first quarter of next year as new buildings come on line. At the same time average asking rents rose by 15 cents, to $4.97 a square foot, a year.
In the Exit 7A market, where most buildings are being built for specific tenants, production is also brisk. For instance, at the 400-acre Northeast Business Center in Washington Township, three buildings are under way, totaling two million square feet, according to the developer, the Matrix Development Group of Cranbury, which is also among the larger developers in the Exit 8A market.
Alec Taylor, a partner at Matrix, said users were attracted by the availability of land and the dependability of approvals. Another factor, he said, is timing -- tenants want space ready when they expand or enter a market.
The question for Exit 6A, Mr. Caccavo said, is how much of a speculative market exists. Mr. Horan of Coldwell Banker Commercial added that Exit 6A "will snag its share of tenants" because of price.
Average rents at the Haines Center are $4.50 a square foot. Mr. Richards said the project offers tenants "more bang for their buck" because taxes, housing and labor costs are lower in South Jersey than in North Jersey.
In addition, he said the roads to the project make it "as accessible, if not more accessible," as an East Coast distribution hub than the more northerly interchanges. Along with the New Jersey Turnpike, where the Exit 6A interchange opened last year and connects to the Pennsylvania Turnpike, the site is accessible to Interstates 95 and 295 as well as Route 130.
Moreover, Mr. Richards said, it is also served by a freight train and is along the path of the 34-mile commuter light rail line from Trenton to Camden, now under way. A station is planned within the center. The $604 million light rail project, financed with state money, is to be completed by early 2003.
Those transportation links were not always at the Haines site, which sat dormant for nearly two decades. In the 80's, the state selected it for a regional food distribution center meant to spur economic growth in South Jersey.
Though the state abandoned the plan in 1990, the county pursued it. Under the plan, the county, using public money, would have bought the site, developed the infrastructure and attracted developers to acquire parcels within the center. But the county never finally acquired the site, which Whitesell ultimately bought for $12.5 million.
Mr. Wujcik, the freeholder director, said the county supported Whitesell's purchase because attracting a private developer was the ultimate aim. The current project, he added, is expected to generate the same amount of tax revenue as the food distribution center, which was projected at $7 million a year.
The mayor of Burlington, Joseph Foy, and the mayor of Florence, Michael Muchowski, said the project would help stabilize taxes in their communities.
It is also proceeding as other sites along Route 130 gain new life. An example is the renovation and expansion of one of 13 shuttered buildings that make up the former Willingboro Plaza, a 514,000-square-foot retail strip that fell into decline in the last decade.
The 160,000-square-foot building will be refurbished and expanded by 100,000 square feet for reuse as an automated mail-service pharmacy for Merck-Medco Managed Care of Franklin Lakes, a subsidiary of Merck & Company. It is the first phase of the redevelopment of the former mall into a mixed-use development, with up to 1.2 million square feet.
The 700 acres where the Haines Industrial Center is taking shape is the only site along the corridor for new development. Mr. Richards of Whitesell said knowing the turnpike exit and the light rail were realities influenced his company's decision to buy the site.
The company also owns adjacent land where it built 560,000 square feet of industrial space. "This is another step," he said of the current project.
The first two buildings have attracted tenants relocating from areas farther south. One building, with 504,000 square feet, was started on speculation last year and has been leased to National Freight of Vineland. The second building, with 603,000 square feet, is being built for B. J.'s Wholesale Club, based in Natick, Mass., which is expanding from a 300,000-square-foot warehouse in Bristol, Pa.
Ray Sareeram, senior vice president of logistics at B. J.'s, said his company had settled on the Exit 6A site after an 18-month search that included looking in the Exit 8A and Exit 7A markets. "Our president, Jack Nugent, gave a strong directive, 'find the best available location that would enable us to preserve our work force,' " Mr. Sareeram said. In relocating to the Haines Center, he said, he expects to retain all 200 current employees. The company, which will eventually double that work force, will occupy the building by March 2001.
Mr. Richards said the center "is still in its infancy." But, he added, with the next two buildings "the center could begin to take on a life of its own."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A distribution warehouse at the Haines Industrial Center, which covers 700 acres near Exit 6A of the New Jersey Turnpike.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BJ (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (83%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (83%); SIC1541 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (70%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (51%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (51%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (50%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (83%); WHITESELL CONSTRUCTION CO INC (70%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (51%); BURLINGTON COUNTY BOARD (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: BURLINGTON COUNTY BOARD (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (50%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (78%); COUNTIES (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (64%); 

PERSON: FRANK V CACCAVO JR (70%); FLORENCE TOWNSHIPS (66%); ROBERT A RICHARDS JR (56%); JOHN HORAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



172 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: Student Leaders Take Place on State Board

BYLINE: By MELINDA TUHUS

 BODY:
TWO high school seniors have taken their seats this year on the 11-member state Board of Education. Jennifer Santiago, who attends Wilbur Cross High School in New Haven, and David Agrawal, a student at Rockville High School in Vernon, can't vote, but they are privy to the workings of the governmental body.
"I think it's an honor to sit down with people who have a say over Connecticut schools," Ms. Santiago said. 
 This is the third year that students have been appointed to one-year terms on the board. They join adult members who serve four-year terms. The arrangement was initiated by a student on the 30-member Student Advisory Council to the state board, who had heard about a movement around the country to appoint students to state and local boards of education. He met with state Senator Kevin B. Sullivan, a Democrat from West Hartford, and got the support of the Student Advisory Council for a bill to create student representation at the state level. It passed in the General Assembly in 1998.
"There was some discussion and debate about voting rights," said Thomas Murphy, a spokesman for the state Board of Education. He said the decision to bar students from voting stemmed from the nature of some of the board's responsibilities -- such as budget and policy decisions that could subject members to lobbying by interest groups; and discussing and voting on personnel matters that could result in litigation, such as revocation of teacher certifications.
Mr. Murphy added that some members of the Student Advisory Council felt they already represented fellow students on policy issues, and were worried that selecting only two students to sit on the board would decrease, not increase, student influence. He said the group met with Gov. John G. Rowland and the commissioner of education, Theodore Sergi; they agreed that the council would have a key role in choosing the student representatives and would advise them once they took office. It would also continue its direct advisory role to government leaders. Mr. Murphy said the group has discussed issues of critical interest to students, such as segregation and diversity, harassment, homework policies, student citizenship and responsibilities, and school violence and security.
School principals nominate students for the Student Advisory Council, and the education commissioner appoints the members. By law, the council must be balanced by gender, race, ethnicity and economic status. Created more than a decade ago, it must include students from each Congressional district in the state and students with disabilities.
Students who would like to serve on the state board apply to the Student Advisory Council, which conducts interviews and recommends five finalists; the governor selects two. The law states that two students be appointed, with no other specifications. Even without a mandate, in each of the past three years one male and one female have been appointed, from a broad geographic mix representing urban, suburban and rural districts and ethnic diversity that has included whites, Asian-Americans and Hispanics.
Eleven states have student representatives to their boards of education, according to David Kysilko, publication director of the National Association of State Boards of Education. In California, Maryland, Massachusetts and Vermont, the student members vote. The trend to include student representatives began a dozen years ago, Mr. Kysilko said, adding that the number of states to do so is growing slowly. His organization supports such efforts, because the response has been so positive from students and adult board members, he said.
At the first regular board meeting Ms. Santiago and Mr. Agrawal attended, on Sept. 13, one of the topics was proposed changes to the Connecticut Mastery Test. Ms. Santiago said the meeting was "very organized but kind of overwhelming." She said some people spoke in favor of emphasizing grammar more on the state tests, while others opposed that change for fear of curtailing students' creativity. The board is expected to vote on any changes in the Mastery Test at its next meeting.
Ms. Santiago said she just listened at her first meeting without expressing her own opinions. She said at first she didn't feel comfortable, because it was a new setting, "and I didn't know how accepting other board members would be about our opinions." She felt more comfortable by the meeting's end, she added.
As for the student representatives' lack of voting privileges, she said: "I think it doesn't matter that we can't vote. Some issues are so complicated, like teacher certification, we are probably better off not voting."
Marcel LaFlamme disagrees. He was the student representative last year to the Massachusetts Board of Education, where he enjoyed full voting rights -- which he said were critical to his equal participation on the board.
In 1974, the Massachusetts legislature established a statewide Student Advisory Council, with the chair of that group serving as a voting member of the State Board.
"There is only one student member on the Board each year, although the extensive network of state and regional Student Advisory Councils provides ample opportunity for the chair to consult with other student leaders," said Mr. LaFlamme, who is now a freshman at Harvard.
He doesn't think much of the Connecticut arrangement, which he said lacks respect for students' abilities to understand complicated matters. As for the concern about lawsuits, Mr. LaFlamme said that, as a member of the 1999-2000 Massachusetts Board of Education, "I am in fact being sued by teachers' unions on the basis of statewide exit exams and diagnostic content exams for teachers whose students have low math scores. Doesn't bother me. I'm proud to stand up with my colleagues for important, difficult decisions we made."
Having students on the board has been good for everyone , according to government officials and the students themselves.
"For the young people it's a great honor," Mr. Murphy said. "In schools, we separate people by age, and here we have a real-world experience where students interact with adults around issues that affect their world. The students develop study skills -- from all the material they have to read -- and debating skills."
He considers the teenagers who have served "brilliant. They're articulate and bring a lot to the table." He added that of the first four representatives, two went on to Harvard, one to Yale and one to Trinity College.
As for the adults on the board, Mr. Murphy said, "They've been inspired by the success of the students. Many times you focus only on the problems in public education. This gave them a chance to renew their faith that public education is working. They also felt a better connection to the classroom and the impact their policies have on students."
Mr. Agrawal said he has found adults on the local and state boards to be "good at listening to other people's opinions, even if they don't agree with them."
Ms. Santiago plans to major in criminal justice and political science in college and hopes to be a lawyer. Mr. Agrawal said he plans to go into law or government service. They both have goals for their tenure on the board.
Ms. Santiago said, "I hope to focus on closing gaps between students, helping lower-level students move up to a higher level and promoting more interaction between different groups of students."
Mr. Agrawal previously served on his town's board of education, where he said he learned about educational policy and procedure. He said on the state board he would like to focus on "maximizing student opportunity through smaller classes, technology, more challenging courses and more electives."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Craig Toensing, the chairman of the state's Board of Education, with two non-voting student members of the board, David Agrawal and Jennifer Santiago. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Jennifer Santiago being sworn in by the chief of legal affairs, Mark Stapleton. David Agrawal looks on. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: STUDENT ADVISORY COUNCIL (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: STUDENT ADVISORY COUNCIL (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); SCHOOL BOARDS (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPUS SECURITY (77%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (73%); HOMEWORK (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); CITIZENSHIP (67%); LITIGATION (65%); ETHNICITY (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: THOMAS AQUINAS MURPHY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



173 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: 35 Three-Family Town Houses in Melrose Commons;
New Homes for South Bronx

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
On a vast, mostly vacant and formerly rubble-strewn expanse of the South Bronx, 35 three-family town houses, their two-tone facades set back behind modest gates and greenery, have been snatched up by eager buyers.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt apparently would have been pleased. 
 "It's been a long struggle within the urban renewal area called Melrose Commons," said Yolanda Garcia, director of Nos Quedamos (We Stay), a community group that has fought to retain residents in the 35-block area between East 156th Street, East 163rd Street, Brook and Park Avenues.
"It's 65 percent vacant, and it hasn't been looked after since F.D.R. came here in 1936 and made a grand speech about urban renewal," Ms. Garcia said. "Nothing happened." Until now. "This is the first project in the ground," Ms. Garcia said.
The 35 three-family homes, on Elton Avenue between 156th and 159th Streets, are called Plaza de Los Angeles. They were constructed with subsidies under the Partnership New Homes Program, a public-private initiative of the New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development and the New York City Housing Partnership, with further support from the New York State Affordable Housing Corporation and the Bronx borough president's office.
Thirty-one of the homes have gone to contract, with 17 of those already closed, "and more than enough people who want the other four," Ms. Garcia said. The average price was $320,000; government subsidies provided $94,000, and the buyers paid the rest. Buyers had to have annual household incomes between $32,000 and $70,950.
Carol Abrams, a spokeswoman for the housing department, said each home has an owner's duplex and two rental units. "The owner's apartment has three bedrooms and two full baths," she said. "There is a one-bedroom rental on the second floor and a two-bedroom rental on the third floor," with buyers allowed to charge market-rate rents. Each home has a yard and parking in the rear.
Magnus Magnusson of the architectural firm Larsen Shein Ginsberg + Magnusson, which designed the houses, said: "It's common to see Partnership homes where the buildings are set back 25 feet to allow a car to park in front. We felt the street should be given to people, so we placed the cars in the back -- more like traditional New York town houses." The facades, he said, are part brick, part cast stone, "and the combination creates a lively front, so it's not monotonous."
Ms. Garcia said: "We ran workshops here on how people really want to live. You look at the houses and they accent everything we spoke about: light, air, quality design, color palate, trees."
One feature, aimed particularly at two-income families, she said, is country kitchens with large open counters, "so when the mother comes home from work she can keep an eye on the children, help with homework, while cooking the meal."
Other bright spots are envisioned for Melrose Commons. "The next project is already a hole in the ground for La Puerta de Vitalidad, a 61-unit apartment building on Third Avenue at East 158th Street," Ms. Garcia said. And 33 more three-family homes, a block from Plaza de Los Angeles, are on the drawing board. DENNIS HEVESI
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The homes are on Elton Avenue. (Larsen Shein Ginsberg + Magnusson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE AFFORDABLE HOUSING CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (88%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (73%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (52%); 

PERSON: FRANKLIN DELANO ROOSEVELT JR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



174 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 2; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: Philanthropist Rescues Center for the Poor

BYLINE: By ALLAN RICHTER

 BODY:
THE Hagedorn Family Resource Center in Hempstead has classrooms on each of its three floors, but no room symbolizes its far-reaching ambitions quite like the unfinished kitchen at the new facility for needy families and children.
The kitchen would not only serve meals to the 145 youngsters who would eventually fill the center's day-care and after-school programs, it would serve as a training ground for disenfranchised teens looking for careers as chefs. Parents dropping off their children in the morning could order dinners that they could pick up in the afternoon, said Carol Keepler, the center's director, to help them spend more "quality time" at home with their children instead of preparing meals. 
 "It will be everything for everybody," Ms. Keepler said of the center.
That is a lofty goal for any social services agency in Nassau County these days, with another round of cuts looming because of the county's fiscal crisis. But the Hagedorn center's chief benefactor is neither County Executive Thomas S. Gulotta nor the county Legislature nor the state financial monitors who rejected Mr. Gulotta's 2001 budget and four-year financial plan last week.
Instead, the Family and Children's Association, the county's largest human services agency, is expanding its services at the Hagedorn center through the facility's namesake, Horace Hagedorn, the octogenarian founder of the plant food company Miracle-Gro who pumped $1 million into the resuscitation of the former Catholic school.
"I'm 85 years old," said Mr. Hagedorn, who lives in Port Washington, where he founded his company 52 years ago. "I'm a little impatient and I can't wait 20 years. I like to do things where I can see the results."
In the center's parking lot, a 42-foot mobile pediatric medical office built atop a bus chassis began dispensing free care to low-income patients last month. It was partly funded with a $1 million donation from Sanjay Kumar, the chief executive of Computer Associates, the Islandia software giant, and his wife, Sylvia.
Increasingly, human services agencies that have endured cutbacks are relying on philanthropy and other help from the private sector to fill gaps. Charity events that were once the fundraising specialty of only the largest organizations are now being run by virtually every agency, said Richard Dina, chief executive of the Family and Children's Association, based in Mineola.
"It plays a major role in the future of any nonprofit," Mr. Dina said of the private contributions. "What's very clear to us is that the old dependence on government for all of your funding to do good work in the community is being broken, and the only way a nonprofit can serve is to look for other sources of revenue."
But human service officials are wary of signaling to the county or the state-appointed Nassau Interim Finance Authority that the private sector can carry the agencies and their programs very far.
Jack O'Connell, chief executive of the Health and Welfare Council of Long Island, an association of social services providers, said he was pessimistic about the the pressure that the state board could exert on the county to enact further cuts to social services. The board ordered the county to fill deficits that could reach $81 million next year.
"The only way you can look at private philanthropy is that it can pay for certain programs," Mr. O'Connell said. "But what they're eliminating at the county level, what Gulotta's proposing is a $20 million elimination. That's going to be impossible to make up. The cuts are too big."
Paul Engelhart, chief program officer at Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Rockville Centre, said it would be difficult for his agency to top the private-sector fundraising that already accounts for $4 million, or 17 percent, of the agency's $24 million budget.
"There are limits to what we can do over and above the commitment that the church and other individuals have already made," he said. Under this year's budget, Catholic Charities lost $214,000 to provide mental health services, representing about half of its government funding for the services.
The Family and Children's Association lost $1.2 million in the same round of cuts, Mr. Dina said. As a result, it closed an East Meadow substance abuse outpatient clinic, a Roosevelt youth program and a summer camp for learning-disabled children and scaled back 15 of its 50 programs.
The $1 million contributed by Mr. Hagedorn is earmarked for the new Hempstead center, and the other programs will not be revived. But Mr. Dina said the Family and Children's Association was garnering savings by consolidating and expanding programs in the center, which is quickly becoming a magnet for other public services in the village.
Ginny Hubert, development director for the Hempstead school district, said the community was "now able to refer families who might be in crisis to a one-stop shopping center for every possible service that has to do with families: youth services, chemical dependency services, anything that impacts the success of our students. That's a godsend because we have a lot of students in crisis in Hempstead."
The Hempstead school district also wants to expand its pre-K program, which lasts until 11:30 in its own schools, into a full-day program at the Hagedorn center with physical education and computer literacy enrichment programs that children do not receive, she said.
Mr. Dina said he hoped the center would fulfill its original premise as a means to take more parents, particularly single mothers, off the welfare rolls by providing day care while they train for jobs or study English as a Second Language. A few mothers are involved in the program in its early stages, while it is still running at only a half day.
Caroline Russell, 34, of Valley Stream, smiled as she watched her 2-year-old daughter, Winter, play with a toy kitchen set at the Hagedorn center last week. Mrs. Russell said it was the first day care the child had ever received.
"I took care of my daughter alone," Mrs. Russell said. "I made it to the park when I could and had a girlfriend who used to take her out when I wasn't feeling well. But she moved away. Then everything kind of broke up. My marriage situation fell apart..
"This," she said, "gives me that push: 'Get yourself in school. Get yourself focused.' " She said she wants to be a nurse.
As the agency awaits state and county approvals, some public funding is beginning to trickle in. Vincent Neefus, who heads the Hempstead Police Department's community outreach unit, said the police unit received a $45,000 grant last month from the state Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse for programs at the Hagedorn center.
Programs there would include after-school tutoring and classes in self-esteem, peer pressure and anti-gang awareness, Lt. Neefus said, and would help balance the sports-focused Police Athletic League programs in which youths at risk of joining gangs participate.
The mobile pediatrics unit is an extension of the one-stop shopping idea. The Family and Children's Association has an agreement with the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, which is managing the unit, to park the bus at the Hagedorn center four days a week, said James Fagin, medical director of the unit and chief of general pediatrics at North Shore University Hospital.
"We would like to provide continuity of care," Dr. Fagin said. "The idea is not to deliver sporadic care, but to establish a medical home for the kids in these communities that never closes. Our intention is to stay at a site, and if it's very successful, ultimately we would like to establish a fixed site there inside the building or nearby and then move the bus onto another site and do the same thing."
Shalesha Ross, 25, applauded the attention as she sat in the medical bus last week. "This is a walk-in; at the H.I.P. center you have to make an appointment," she said. "I like this better. They take more time to explain what's going on with your children." Ms. Ross, who is unemployed, watched her daughter, India, cradle a toy kangaroo given by the bus staff and wipe away tears let loose by an inoculation.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Hagedorn Family Resource Center, above, in Hempstead has received a lifesaving gift of $1 million from Horace Hagedorn, left. (Photographs by Vic DeLucia for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CA (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CA INC (52%); HAGEDORN FAMILY RESOURCE CENTER (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAGEDORN FAMILY RESOURCE CENTER (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COUNTIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); PHILANTHROPY (87%); POOR POPULATION (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); MAJOR GIFTS (76%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (76%); BUDGETS (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (64%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



175 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 4; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Q & A/Patricia Lucan;
Mutual Respect: Teachers and Board

BYLINE: By MELINDA TUHUS

 BODY:
ON July 1, Patricia Lucan took office as president of the 1,650-member New Haven Federation of Teachers. Ms. Lucan, a 53-year-old native of New Haven who now lives in Hamden, began teaching in 1969 and (with nine years off to raise her own children) has spent her entire career as a language teacher in New Haven public schools, at Lee High School and at Sheridan Academy middle school.
Ms. Lucan has a master's degree and a sixth-year administrative degree from Southern Connecticut State University. 
 At a welcome-back event for teachers in August sponsored by the New Haven superintendent, Reginald Mayo, Ms. Lucan was outspoken in demanding more respect for teachers, but also in admonishing them not to "whine and moan." She called for reinstatement of family health benefits for new teachers, urged administrators, including herself, to get back into the classroom, and promoted better school nutrition.
Following are excerpts from an interview conducted last month in Ms. Lucan's union office. She is a small woman, her dark hair pulled back in a no-nonsense style, who tended to whip her glasses on and off as she spoke -- a habit that resulted in flying spectacles, she said, on many occasions in the classroom.
Q. In your welcome-back address, you seemed intent on giving teachers and administrators notice that you're in charge of the union now. What kind of relationship would you like to have with Superintendent Mayo and the Board of Education?
A. One of mutual respect, and that means what those words say. I respect the position they are in. It's a difficult task to run any kind of a system, but I think people on top lose touch with what's going on at the ground level. What would be wrong with one day a week helping out in the classroom?
Q. Do you have a proposal for administrators working in the classroom?
A. I don't have a specific plan, but since we have 10 schools that did poorly on a state survey, those schools could really benefit by lowering class size with more teachers in the classroom. It would help with the teacher-shortage problem. But I'm not going to do it alone, and I doubt that any administrators agree with me. I hope something will come from my talking about it. It's like a wake-up call. I didn't say anything original but I said it publicly as a union president.
Q. In what ways do you think administrators don't respect teachers?
A. I have never seen it be effective, whether in teaching or something else, to overpower someone, to make them feel harassed or threatened. I'm going to follow up on every complaint a teacher makes. But the teachers are not always right; that's why I told them to stop whining and moaning.
Q. Education is one of the top issues in this year's presidential campaign. What is your opinion of their focus?
A. Politicians talk a good game about education, but when it comes down to getting in the trenches and getting kids to learn, it's not the top-funded priority. I hate to say money would fix all our problems with education, but money would help.
Q. What are some of the important economic issues for the union?
A. Many teachers in New Haven are being bought out, going to other towns with better pay and benefits. Taxpayers don't realize we are not on a par with other professionals who have even less education. New Haven is going to have to offer more money.
We have to lower the steps in the contract it takes to get to maximum and give more of an increase each year. And 35 years is too long to be in any job before retiring with full benefits, especially one as stressful as teaching.
Police and firefighters can retire with full benefits after 25 years, and teaching is at least as stressful as that. Now teachers who retire after 25 years get only a quarter of the average of their three highest-paid years. That's a quarter of $69,262. We have to get it down to 30 years, but that means changing a state regulation.
Q. How can you change the state regulation regarding retirement benefits?
A. We need to be very political. We need to lobby. We need to be part of a labor movement. We have to be more vocal about what we want and don't want.
Q. You've taken a high-profile position on school nutrition. Why do you think that's so important?
A. We worry about how our cars run, what kind of fuel we put in them, but what about our children? We could educate families on how to feed their kids better, but when they are at school we can do a better job ourselves. People say the kids won't eat healthier food -- let them go hungry until they do. There are foods that could be cut down in fat. We have kids who are grossly overweight, we have childhood diabetes, we have asthma.
We are setting ourselves up for long-term health problems. We teach them science, we teach them health, but then we don't practice it. It's hypocrisy. Kids who qualify for the reduced price lunch program then spend two or three or four dollars a day on junk. Then they get hyperactive and there are discipline problems and the blame falls on the teachers.
As president of the union, I don't want to see that. We privatized the food service a few years ago. I have no problem with that, but if you don't introduce junk to make money then the children won't buy junk.
Q. You organized to get more nutritious food at Sheridan. How did you do it?
A. We got the school nurses and some pediatricians involved. I bought one of every kind of junk food available at the school and put it all in a big box, and the school nurse took it to her supervisor, who's a physician. That made quite an impression.
A few weeks later the food service company sent a letter home saying the food would be more nutritious at Sheridan. If they can do it at Sheridan, why not at all the schools? I'll keep saying it at board meetings: remember nutrition.
Q. You have been very critical of the current union contract that excludes family health coverage for new teachers until they get tenure after four years. What can you do about it?
A. I think it's insulting that that would have been offered as a bargaining chip. It's like saying new teachers are not worth keeping in the system. This city is self-insured. I'd bet it would cost about $350,000 to give new teachers family health benefits. The mayor could do it. But he wants us to give something back, and I'm not giving anything back unless my executive board tells me to.
We already gave back a lot in the last contract, which included a wage freeze. The new contract created more steps to reach the maximum. It kept starting pay the same for four years. I was not involved in the negotiation and I'm not going to second-guess those who were. I just want to say not enough money was provided for an equitable contract.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Patricia Lucan, head of the New Haven Federation of Teachers. (C. M. Glover for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); INTERVIEWS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (90%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); NUTRITION (53%); 

PERSON: PATRICIA LUCAN (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



176 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 4; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: IN PERSON;
In Defense Of Columbus

BYLINE: By MARY ANN CASTRONOVO FUSCO

DATELINE: SOUTH ORANGE

 BODY:
THROUGHOUT time, treasure has typically been measured in trinkets and pennyweights, coins and carats. But to William J. Connell, a historian at Seton Hall University, "there's nothing more precious than a hard fact."
"The more you look for them," Mr. Connell says, "the more you see how many interpretations there are." Lately, the 42-year-old scholar has taken to weighing the facts about Columbus, who at 41 became the most famous treasure-seeker of all time. 
 The fact that the Genoese explorer was preceded by the Vikings no longer fires up a debate. Arguments over Columbus's ethnic origins -- various groups claim him as Italian, Spanish, Greek, and Jewish -- are as old and usually as good-natured as the celebration of Columbus Day itself.
But one controversy that has tarnished the seafarer's reputation persists, periodically fanned by prevailing political winds. Though many maintain that Columbus was a noble-minded visionary who opened up a new land of opportunity for the oppressed masses of Europe, others see him as a greedy imperialist who slaughtered and spread disease among the indigenous people and institutionalized the slave trade.
"On the one hand, we have people desperate to make him theirs," Mr. Connell said with a chuckle during a recent interview in his campus office, "and on the other hand, we have people who are trying to erase him from history."
Though Mr. Connell briefly flirted with a career in banking after graduating summa cum laude with distinction in history from Yale University, he made his life's work documenting facts, specifically those of the Renaissance. After earning a doctorate at the University of California at Berkeley, he taught history at Reed College in Portland, Ore., then at Rutgers.
In 1998 he became the first professor to hold the La Motta Chair in Italian studies at Seton Hall, where he is usually preoccupied with the Italian humanists and the political and economic strife of Italian city-states.
Mr. Connell, who was raised by parents of Irish, German, and Welsh descent in the Bronx and Westchester, has so enthusiastically embraced Italian culture that he reads fairy tales in Italian to his 16-month-old daughter, Zoe, at the Clinton home he shares with his wife, Nikki Shepardson, who teaches history at Rider University. His first book, La citta dei crucci (City of Sorrows), about a feud that destroyed the Tuscan city of Pistoia at the time of the Medici, was written in Italian and will be published next month in Florence.
And as a Renaissance man, Columbus fell within his area of expertise. Last year, Mr. Connell spoke on Columbus and the meaning of Columbus Day before both public school students in Elizabeth and the West Orange Rotary Club. This year, he will address the Columbus Day Dinner Dance in Hanover, sponsored by District 11 of UNICO, an Italian-American civic organization that spearheaded the campaign to endow the chair in Italian studies at Seton Hall.
"Certainly we don't want to downplay the tragedies that happened," said John Sebastiano, president of the Montville chapter of UNICO. "But for a lot of individuals, the symbolism of Christopher Columbus was that of a voyage of freedom. It really was the start of the globalization of our world."
As Mr. Connell noted, "When history is made in this kind of fundamental way, there are also costs."
The arrival of Dutch, Swedish and English to New Jersey in the 17th century, for example, led to smallpox and measles epidemics among the native Lenape communities, which had no resistance to Old World diseases. Although the Lenape, also known as the Delaware, were the first tribe to sign a treaty with the newly formed American government in 1778, most were pushed West and to this day live in Bartlesville, Okla.
Some Indians have urged that Columbus Day -- first celebrated in New York in 1792, the 300th anniversary of Columbus's arrival -- be rescinded as a holiday in their states. One hundred years later, Congress designated Columbus Day a national holiday to be celebrated each Oct. 12. And in 1971 Columbus Day became a federal holiday observed on the second Monday of October.
Throughout the years, Italian-American, Hispanic, and other groups have embraced the holiday as a occasion to celebrate their ethnic heritage, though some Indian groups prefer to refer to the day as "Indigenous Peoples Day."
Dee Ketchum, chief of the Delawares, said his tribe "recognizes various holiday events in North America and allows paid time off to its tribal employees, but Columbus Day is not one of them."
Other tribes are more vocal in their opposition. "We believe that Columbus came and conquered," Mark (Quiet Hawk) Gould, tribal chairman of the Nanticoke Lenni-Lenape Indians, said in a telephone interview, "We really think that it was like a genocide."
Roy Crazy Horse, chairman of the New Jersey Commission on American Indian Affairs and chief of the Powhatan Renape Nation, based at the Rankokus Indian Reservation in Westhampton Township, put it this way: "Why celebrate a man who started looking for India and landed in the Caribbean, who never put down his foot in the United States, who brought slavery to this continent?" Neither American Indian leader, however, is involved in protesting the holiday. Instead, they say they concentrate on educational programs.
The controversy over Columbus Day doesn't bother Mr. Connell, who said: "The whole discussion around Columbus Day has been useful to the extent that it has reminded us of many of the tragic consequences of the contact."
And he doesn't believe the holiday should be replaced with a celebration of ethnic diversity, which "sounds like a hodgepodge."
"We have ethnic diversity anyway; we celebrate it every day," Mr. Connell said. "It's one of the best things about this country."
As for doing away with the holiday, he said, "I don't think that it should go to the point of taking away from the tremendous achievement of Columbus."
Though modern textbooks no longer state that Columbus discovered the New World, his arrival marks "where we as a country and as a hemisphere began our identity," said Mr. Connell. "It's a question of the contact that matters. There wasn't a significant or important tradition that survived from the voyages of the Vikings."
On the other hand, he noted, Columbus's contact with the New World had a profound effect, largely because of the time -- an era when Europe was still reeling from the psychological effects of the Black Death of 1348, fierce competition among the various monarchs and the newly invented printing press, which enabled accounts of Columbus's findings to spread rapidly.
"Columbus strikes me as a person of his time," said Mr. Connell. "He was eager to push the envelope to go farther, to take the skills and the learning of the Renaissance in order to do something glorious."
As a man of the Renaissance, Columbus operated under a set of assumptions that "sound terrible to modern ears," Mr. Connell allowed. "He justified slavery in the Caribbean as being a way of bringing people into the Christian faith."
But the European concept of slavery was rooted in the Aristotelian concept that "if a person is captured in war, they're legitimately a slave," he explained. "There was nothing racial about it."
Moreover, widely spread accounts that Columbus's followers wiped out the Taino people of the Caribbean were inaccurate, says Jorge Estevez, himself of Taino lineage, who is a program coordinator at the National Museum of the American Indian in Manhattan. Mr. Estevez says that although many natives were murdered, fell victim to European diseases, or were taken captive, others intermingled with the Spanish settlers. And the settlers who were given Tainos as slaves were required to pay taxes on them, resulting in the undercounting of the Tainos as a form of tax evasion and leading to reports of their eradication.
"Columbus didn't start slavery," said Mr. Connell. "He brought the entrepreneurial form of slavery to the New World. It was a phenomenon of the times. With all great figures of the past, we need more understanding, critical understanding that sees the person's flaws and the inaccuracies and myths that have arisen around him, but we shouldn't forget the tremendous changes that they created."
The scholar went on: "I think we have to be very careful about applying 20th-century understandings of morality to the morality of the 15th century."
That said, Mr. Connell does not consider himself an apologist for Columbus. 'I'm just doing my job as a historian," he said. " 'Celebrate' is a word we could use for Columbus's genius, his persistence against the odds in getting people who were much more powerful than he was to back him in a risky enterprise that had results way beyond anyone's imagination. We can celebrate his enterprise and ingenuity. A more appropriate word for what happened would be 'commemorate.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Columbus strikes me as a person of his time," says William J. Connell, the chairman of Italian studies at Seton Hall University. (Photographs by Jill C. Becker and Norman Y. Lono, top left, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); ITALY (79%); GERMANY (70%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (91%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (91%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); ITALY (79%); GERMANY (70%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HISTORY (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (69%); SLAVERY (51%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



177 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: THE CITIES;
Is Jersey City Too Alluring?

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY

 BODY:
Twenty years ago, the word blighted aptly described the Jersey City waterfront.
To lure developers to the crumbling west bank of the Hudson River, Jersey City took advantage of the state's tax abatement law, and since the 1980's, more than 30 buildings have been completed or are under construction, including over two dozen high-rise offices and apartments, two hotels and a mall. 
 Today, the New Jersey waterfront is increasingly attractive to businesses and residents who want to be near Manhattan -- but not in it -- because of its exorbitance.
As a result, a growing chorus of critics say there is no longer a need to be as generous. Abatements have become so common that Secaucus, North Bergen and Bayonne are suing Jersey City, claiming they have to make up for more than $4 million in Hudson County taxes that otherwise would have come from properties that have benefitted from this city's abatements. In addition, many homeowners here are fed up with the abatements, which they feel they are subsidizing with their property taxes.
Spurred by such criticism, Mayor Bret Schundler has recently begun taking steps that he says will open the process by which abatements are granted.
Apart from New Jersey's relatively low corporate taxes, labor costs lower than those across the river, swaths of vacant land and properties ready to be knocked down and rebuilt, what has also fueled the current boom is a diminishing supply of office space in New York City. Developers, corporate executives and city officials there say the shortage has challenged New York's ability to attract new businesses and stanch the flow of dozens of others -- including some of the leading investment houses -- across the Hudson.
Against this backdrop, abatements continue unabated.
"There's nothing left in Manhattan," said Mia Scanga, one of 40 homeowners here seeking a referendum to rescind an abatement recently granted to the 43-story Millennium Towers apartment planned at the base of the Palisades. "And we're giving out tax abatements."
Last Tuesday, the group gave City Clerk Robert Byrne a petition with 3,343 signatures -- about 800 more than the number required to hold a referendum.
"The minute they heard abatement they signed," said Robert Duval, vice president of the Sergeant Anthony Neighborhood Association, a member of the coalition.
Mr. Byrne said that if the petition was certified, the referendum would be the first ever held to repeal an ordinance in the 40-year history of the city's present form of government.
Currently, there are 89 properties here receiving tax abatements, making payments in lieu of taxes that total $48 million in revenue for the fiscal year 2001, up from $17 million in 1992, said Tom Gallagher, chief of staff to Mayor Schundler.
Were the abatements not in place, the revenue generated for the same properties in fiscal 2001 would amount to close to $100 million. Of course, proponents of the abatements argue that without the inducements, the properties would not have been developed.
A common perception is that abatements are mainly granted to waterfront office towers, and indeed, the number of those has grown to 19 from 11 in 1992. Moreover, office abatements generally involve the most money -- and the biggest savings for the recipient. But by far the most common type of abatement is for affordable housing projects, which account for 39 of the 89 abatements, Mr. Gallagher said.
Despite the rising revenue, critics have complained that while abatements need the approval of the City Council, they are only presented to the full council after terms are negotiated privately by developers and members of the Schundler administration.
City Councilman Robert Cavanaugh, who plans to run for mayor next year, said that he is not against abatements per se, but "when you have the hottest economic development area in the country, you've done what the original legislation intended to do."
Whether the proposed procedure will be approved by the nine-member council is unclear. Council President Tom DeGise, a probable mayoral opponent of Mr. Cavanaugh in the spring, said he opposes the change because it would weaken the council's role.
Critics of the waterfront abatements are not limited to political opponents of Mr. Schundler, who plans to enter the Republican race for governor.
Donald Eisen, exective managing director for New Jersey operations of Cushman & Wakefield, the real estate consulting firm, said that although the abatements had been "very, very helpful" in attracting developers, "it's been such a long time that these abatements have not been necessary."
The increased demand for waterfront office space is reflected in several indicators. For example, in the market that includes the Jersey City, Hoboken and Weehawken waterfronts, last week there was only 10,500 square feet of vacant prime office out of an inventory of more than 9 million square feet, said Mark Field of Cushman and Wakefield.
In the same market, which is dominated by Jersey City, the current amount of total office space, which includes prime space and less desirable properties, is 12.3 million square feet -- with another 3 million square feet expected to be added within about a year -- as against 9.26 million in 1991, Mr. Field said. During that same period, he added, office rents have increased 40 percent, to about $35 a square foot from $25.
Mr. Gallagher said in an interview that the administration had toughened its negotiating stance with developers seeking tax abatements in response to the changing market. He cited a new policy limiting the life of an abatement for residential property to 20 years, down from the previous 30 years.
The Schundler administration has recently begun drafting a plan to revise the abatement process, Mr. Gallagher said.
Essentially, he said, the plan would create a committee made up of two council members -- including Mr. Cavanaugh -- representatives of the tax collector, the tax assessor and the business administrator's office, the city Department of Housing and Economic Development, the Law Department, the Office of Economic Opportunity, and a member of the public.
The committee would hold public meetings during which it would question developers and discuss terms of the abatement before making a recommendation to the mayor. If the mayor accepted the arrangement, he would submit it to the full council for approval.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Councilman Robert F. Cavanaugh of Jersey City, with the Towers of America behind him, says tax abatements, "have done what the original legislation intended to do." (Don Standing for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF THE HUDSON (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); REFERENDUMS (85%); PETITIONS (85%); ORDINANCES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITIES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (76%); COUNTIES (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); 

PERSON: THOMAS C GALLAGHER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



178 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 24; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
Ever the Foe of Market Guesswork

BYLINE: By RICHARD TEITELBAUM

 BODY:
INVESTORS in index funds should circle Dec. 31 on their calendars.
That date will be the 25th anniversary of the incorporation of John C. Bogle's grand invention, the First Index Investment Trust, today known as the Vanguard 500 Index, the largest stock mutual fund in the United States. And the pioneering fund company that Mr. Bogle founded, the Vanguard Group, has grown apace, with some $575.5 billion in assets under management at quarter's end. 
 And Mr. Bogle himself? Nearly five years after a heart transplant, the wiry, irascible evangelist of common-sense investing keeps quite busy writing, researching and giving speeches. He gave up most of his day-to-day responsibilities at Vanguard last year and now, at 71, he presides over his own organization, the Bogle Financial Markets Research Center. In an interview, he spoke of some abiding concerns, especially indexing and the hyperventilating market, and shared thoughts about his latest projects. RICHARD TEITELBAUM
 
Q. Though it has gained wide acceptance, indexing as a fund strategy still comes in for criticism -- that indexes like the Standard & Poor's 500 are too narrowly focused on large caps, for example. Do the critics have a point?
 
A. I'm not bothered with the S.& P. 500. The S.& P. 500 represents 75 percent of the market, and in the long run I would be flabbergasted if it didn't have the same return as the Wilshire 5000 Total Market index, because of the reversion to the mean -- large caps do better for a while and then small caps do better. Returns have been identical.
 
Q. What is the right question to be asking about indexing?
 
A. "Do we have the right indexes?" You don't need to structure an index so that it throws out a stock when it gets too big. So we're thinking about whether there are better ways to index.
 
Q. You don't see yourself as a market forecaster, but you do make forecasts. How do you approach the task?
 
A. I believe profoundly that earnings and dividends are the only long-term, long-term determinants of stock prices. P/E is a short-term, speculative determinant, although there may be a little upward bias as our economy has gotten more stable. What I do is challenge investors to say: "Don't tell me what the market return will be. Tell me what you think the fundamental return will be, and then we'll guess together at what the speculative return will be." That makes thinking about the market a rational exercise, rather than just a guessing exercise.
 
Q. Seen that way, where is the market headed?
 
A. Earnings are growing 8 percent, more or less, and the dividend yield is a little over 1 percent. That gives you a fundamental return of a little over 9 percent. The market P/E is 30, and if it reverts to the mean I'd say it's likely to be about 20, leaving an investment return of about 5 percent going forward.
Of course, the market never returns the same two years in a row, so it is more likely that you'll see a period of significant decline, and then higher growth rates from then on.
 
Q. You gave up your seats on the boards of Vanguard's funds nearly a year ago. Do you miss that part of the business?
 
A. No, I'm having the time of my life. I talk about the differences between relinquishing your intellectual and moral power, which I couldn't possibly relinquish such as they may be, and relinquishing your power over the person -- your power to manipulate people and things of that nature. I don't miss those kinds of power at all. I'm doing what I want to do, and I'm hoping that with the five extra years of life that the Lord has given me, I'm still doing things for shareholders. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: VANGUARD GROUP INC (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); INDEX FUNDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (79%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); DIVIDENDS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (55%); 

PERSON: JOHN C BOGLE (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



179 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 20; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
A New Fund Banks on Technology

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
Talk about fast out of the gate. The newly hatched Merrill Lynch Focus Twenty fund took second place in the performance rankings for the third quarter, with a return of 22.8 percent. So it is not surprising that Focus Twenty has already gathered $1.7 billion in assets.
The fund, started on March 3, holds 20 stocks, 17 of them in technology. "Technology is driving the economy, so that's where most of the growth ideas are now," said Jim McCall, the manager, who is 47. He also runs the $256 million Merrill Lynch Premier Growth fund and the Merrill Lynch Mid-Cap Growth fund, introduced on Sept. 26. 
 Mr. McCall aims for a balanced portfolio; when a single stock accounts for more than 10 percent of it, he starts trimming it back. His winning stock for the quarter, Extreme Networks, up 117 percent, is not quite there yet, at 8 percent of the portfolio. But, judging from his expectations for the stock, it may require trimming soon.
Extreme Networks, in Santa Clara, Calif., manufactures high-end, commercial switches for local area networks, or LAN's, which can link personal computers around an office or around the world.
Why the triple-digit growth for the stock? "It's a next-generation technology that's starting to displace less-efficient technology," Mr. McCall said. "There's intelligence built into the semiconductor chips used in the switches that lets them identify packets of data quicker and move them along more quickly to where they have to go."
Revenue more than doubled compared with the third quarter a year ago, he said, while earnings growth lagged slightly, at 80 percent, because of a recent acquisition.
Will the company be able to sustain such astounding growth? "As best as we can tell, yes," Mr. McCall said. CAROLE GOULD 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (92%); MER (NYSE) (92%); 8675 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); RANKINGS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); LOCAL AREA NETWORKS (70%); COMPUTER CHIPS (66%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (53%); SEMICONDUCTORS (50%); 

PERSON: JIM MCCALL (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



180 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 21; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
Betting on the Old Economy Puts Three Managers Ahead

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
AFTER a wild ride during the third quarter, many mutual funds ended up about where they started. But some of the smallest and narrowest funds gained more than 20 percent.
This time, such gains in technology funds were the exception. Instead, several top-performing funds owned shares in old-economy energy companies that benefited from rising energy prices, and in the financial services sector, which was aided by mergers and stabilizing interest rates. 
 Managers of three top-performing funds talked about what drove their outstanding performances -- and they took a stab at predicting the months ahead.
 
A Bet on Alternative Energy
Energy stocks with a green hue propelled the $56.5 million New Alternatives fund, in Melville, N.Y., into first place among 3,635 diversified domestic equity funds for the third quarter, with a return of 32 percent.
Maurice L. Schoenwald, 80, started this quirky fund in 1982 with his son, David J. Schoenwald. The fund holds shares of 34 companies that the managers say improve the environment and promote clean energy. Their biggest winners were solar power and fuel cell companies, which rose sharply despite measly earnings, if they had earnings at all.
An example was FuelCell Energy, a Danbury, Conn., maker of fuel cells, devices that use electrochemical reactions to produce electricity without combustion. The company's cells are used to produce power for a single building or as much as an entire community. Its stock rose 179 percent during the quarter.
"I think there's a sense that this is a new technology that's about to be commercialized," David Schoenwald said, "and it comes at a time of concern about energy, the availability of electricity and the environment."
Another holding, the Calpine Corporation of San Jose, Calif., rose 59 percent. Using natural-gas-fired turbines and geothermal energy, Calpine produces electricity that it sells to mainstream power grids.
"It's an ongoing enterprise with tremendous earnings growth, and it's operating in an environment of energy shortfalls," Mr. Schoenwald said.
The consensus of Wall Street analysts is that Calpine's earnings will grow 81 percent this year.
The fund also benefited from its shares of El Paso Energy, a natural gas production and distribution company in Houston, up 21 percent. "The stock price was driven by the sharp increase in the price of natural gas," Mr. Schoenwald said, "and partly by companies like Calpine that use gas to generate electricity."
El Paso Energy is acquiring the Coastal Corporation, another natural gas company, in a deal that is expected to be completed by year-end. As for social responsibility, Mr. Schoenwald said, "it's not Ben & Jerry's, but we think natural gas is a clean fuel."
Impressively, the fund achieves its ranking despite an 18 percent cash position, held since January. "We're not superenthusiastic about the stock market in general," Mr. Schoenwald said. "There's been a huge gap between prices of hot stocks and value stocks that seems absurd."
 
Capitalizing on Mergers
Mergers and acquisitions among financial services companies pushed the $35 million Titan Financial Services fund into 14th place among the 5,801 domestic equity funds, including sector funds, with a gain of 25 percent.
"We clearly saw the trends toward consolidation and M.& A.," said its manager, Gilbert R. Giordano, 72, who is a former senior executive at First Virginia Bank. "Now European banks are picking up U.S. brokerages. A few months ago they were steals, but they are still selling at low fundamentals."
One of the biggest winners in the sector was FleetBoston Financial, up 15 percent. Unlike most banks, Fleet earns more than half its revenues from continuing fees generated by its brokerage and mortgage servicing businesses, making it much less vulnerable than its competitors to interest rate swings, Mr. Giordano said.
In addition, acquisitions of Quick & Reilly and Robertson Stephens expanded Fleet's traditional brokerage business into discount brokerage and electronic trading, Mr. Giordano observed. Fleet sells for 12 times earnings, he added, far below his projection of 18 or 20.
The fund also succeeded with Bear Stearns, up 52 percent for the quarter. "We think it's an excellent acquisition candidate at $110 a share," Mr. Giordano said. "The board has indicated that it is willing to consider an acquisition at $120. I don't think that's obtainable, but it's just a question of time."
Lehman Brothers was another winner, up 57 percent. The company has exceeded earnings estimates for each of the last five quarters, Mr. Giordano said, but still trades at 12 times earnings, well below a peer, Merrill Lynch, at a multiple of 17. He figures that Lehman, widely regarded as a takeover candidate, will increase its book value to $60 a share by year-end, justifying a takeover price of $200 to $220 a share.
Mr. Giordano remains bullish on financial stocks. "We're at the beginning of a consolidation that will promote mergers and acquisitions with tremendous speed because of the economies built into one-stop shopping, and because of the demolition of the Glass-Steagall Act," which generally kept banks and their affiliates from underwriting securities.
 
Return of the Small Caps
After almost two years in which their investing style could hardly have been less fashionable, George A. Henning, 53, and Thomas H. Hanson, 50, saw their $7 million Pacific Advisors Small Cap fund come back into favor in the third quarter. It gained 22 percent over the period, fourth among domestic diversified funds in a ranking that includes such small funds.
"After the market correction in March and April, we began to see money flow into the small-cap value market probably for the first time since late 1998," Mr. Henning said. "People began to realize that Internet-related company valuations couldn't be justified on earnings, and a lot of aggressive investors began looking for other sectors where they could get good returns. Small-cap stocks have traditionally fulfilled that role."
One winner was East West Bancorp of San Marino, Calif., a full-service regional bank that specializes in the Asian-American market, which gained 36 percent in the quarter. The bank has solid earnings, Mr. Henning said, but its small size and narrow focus had held its share price down before the fund began buying in the spring of 1999. "Now people are looking beyond that," he said.
He also made money in Genesco Inc. of Nashville, up 5.5 percent. Genesco is the parent of Johnston & Murphy, which sells high-end men's shoes; Jarman, which focuses on shoes for a middle-income market; and Journeys, which caters to young men and women. The Journeys brand has been particularly strong, Mr. Henning said, and Genesco has been adding stores around the country. Earnings in the second quarter were up a third from the previous year, he added.
Another favorite is ITT International Educational Services, in Indianapolis, which offers programs for high school graduates in electronics and computer science in about 30 states. Because growth in the company's programs had slowed, the stock price fell from a high of $42 in 1999 to $10 in February, when the fund bought shares. The stock rose 55 percent during the third quarter, as the success of its new programs became apparent, Mr. Henning said.
Mr. Henning is cautiously optimistic, about both the market and his favored small-cap value sector. "I suspect we might have some correction through October, and then see some sort of a year-end rally," he said. "After that, the economy will continue to grow, although at a much slower pace."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: George A. Henning of Pacific Advisors, center right, toured a factory at Monterey Pasta in California, a company whose stock he is considering. (Thor Swift for The New York Times); David, left, and Maurice Schoenwald of the New Alternatives Fund, examine solar panels on their roof. Their fund buys "green" companies. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times); Gilbert R. Giordano's fund is Titan Financial; his dog is just Titan. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "A Few That Beat the Averages"
Managers who showed strong gains in the third quarter had the luck to be in the right categories and the talent to pick those categories' winners. Here is a look at three funds that outperformed the broader market and their peer groups.
 
Graph tracks new alternatives, Titan Financial Services and Pacific Advisors Small Cap since July.
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CPN (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (94%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (85%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (85%); NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CALPINE CORP (94%); EL PASO CORP (85%); BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (91%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); FUEL CELL MFG (87%); MERGERS (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (77%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (70%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (62%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (62%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); 

PERSON: GILBERT R GIORDANO (80%); MAURICE L SCHOENWALD (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



181 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 4; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
Keeping the Faith in Boom Times

BYLINE: By PETER DUFFY

 BODY:
THE life story of John Levi Washington Jr., the editor in chief of Street News, reads like an amalgam of a Beat novel, missionary tract and down-and-out version of "The Front Page."
Known to everyone as Indio, a name he says was "given to him by the Great Spirit" during a session of meditation, Mr. Washington has led Street News, the newspaper sold by the homeless, since 1996. Once homeless himself, he seems perfectly suited to his job, a colorful personality who easily slips from street slang to publishing jargon. 
 "A lot of people who write about homelessness haven't been there and done that," he said. "I've been there and done that, and I don't want to do it again."
With the economy booming, Mr. Washington finds it hard to draw people's attention to the homeless. But he is dedicated to keep the struggling newspaper alive to shine a light on a problem he says is as bad as it was in the late 1980's and early 90's.
"If you come around 10:30 at night and go to the front of 100 Centre Street, you'll see them out there," he said of the homeless, whose numbers are notoriously difficult to gauge. But, he added, "The newspapers and television stations aren't concerned with homelessness, and the majority of people listen to the news media."
The paper was founded by a charity-minded musician in 1989, at the height of public concern about homelessness, to give street people something to sell as an alternative to panhandling. Although it once printed as many as 250,000 copies every two weeks, Street News now publishes only 9,000 papers, which are sold by about 40 homeless people on the streets and, illegally, in the subways, Mr. Washington said. Just five issues have been distributed so far this year.
The newspaper once had offices in Manhattan but is now edited out of Mr. Washington's apartment in Kew Gardens Hills, Queens. The hands-off owner, Sam Chen, president of Expedi Printing, cheerfully admits that it is not profitable, even though publishing an issue costs just over $3,000.
Then again, his editor receives no salary.
That does not seem to bother Mr. Washington, 61, who said he lives off a city pension. Despite a limp caused by an arthritic hip, he chases down advertisers, lugs copies to the five newsstands in Manhattan and Queens where homeless vendors pick them up, and cajoles articles out of his unpaid writers, some homeless, some not.
"He represents what Street News strives to be," said Jon Hart, a freelance journalist and former Street News editor who hired Mr. Washington as an advertising salesman in 1993. "He lifted himself out of the gutter, and he's being very productive and helping people. I think about him every time I try to achieve anything."
Mr. Washington was born in Harlem to a father from the Virgin Islands and a mother who was Cherokee and Seminole. As a teenager, he trawled the city with the Harlem Lords, a street gang. After marrying, he worked at a glass and shade company and sang in doo-wop groups.
In 1971, he began selling drugs and eventually spent two years in prison.
After his release in 1975, Mr. Washington, by then divorced, continued a life of crime, selling cocaine and operating a brothel. Then he had what he calls a semiconversion. In 1977, he was ordained a minister of the nonsectarian Universal Unity Life Church and began working as a counselor for social service groups. He also got a master's degree in education from Fordham.
Throughout the 1980's, Mr. Washington stayed out of trouble. But after his second marriage fell apart, he had a breakdown and found himself a broken man on the streets. "It was like a nightmare," he said. "When you are doing bad, when you are down and out, there's very few people that will help you."
For three years, he slept in Tompkins Square Park and used drugs, for which he was jailed again. Eventually, he was drawn to Street News, which he had sold when he was on the streets. Mr. Hart remembered when Mr. Washington first arrived.
"He was persistent and we needed help," he said. "The place was a shanty, with people sleeping on the floor. But he came to work and treated it like it was Conde Nast. He wore a suit and tie. He brought in sandwiches for fellow employees. He cut out clips from newspapers and put them on the wall."
Another editor, Lee Stringer, was less impressed.
"I was originally against hiring him," said Mr. Stringer, who after leaving the paper wrote the acclaimed book "Grand Central Winter: Stories From the Streets." "He wasn't a great salesman, but he made himself infinitely useful by taking jobs nobody else wanted."
In the next few years, as money dried up because of waning interest in the homeless, Mr. Washington and Mr. Stringer worked to keep the paper going. In 1996, the paper moved to Mr. Washington's Queens apartment. When Mr. Stringer entered drug rehabilitation, his partner took the helm.
It hasn't been easy. A new issue is published only after all copies of the previous issue have been sold. And it's tough to manage the homeless vendors, who buy copies for 60 cents apiece and sell them for whatever they can get, pocketing the difference. But Mr. Washington, who says his only vices are cigarettes and the occasional beer, has a rapport with them.
"He's a very, very sharp brother," said the formerly homeless Christopher Boyd, who started selling the paper eight years ago and now lives in a subsidized apartment. "I am very grateful for everything he's done for me."
The most recent edition was published last weekend. It had 44 pages and included essays, a column by Mumia Abu-Jamal, who is on death row for killing a Philadelphia police officer, testimonies from homeless vendors, self-help columns and a few examples of the writings of Mr. Washington.
"The best part is reading the first issue that comes off the presses," said Mr. Washington, sounding like any newspaper editor. "It's like a new baby. And then you see a mistake and you want to kick yourself."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Levi Washington Jr. edits Street News and sells it too. Above, the search for customers at Eighth Avenue and 42nd Street. (Photographs by Edward Keating/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "VERBATIM: Not Just a Job But a Roof Overhead"
 
The early days of Street News are recounted in lively fashion by a former editor, Lee Stringer, in his 1998 memoir "Grand Central Winter: Stories From the Street":
 
"It turned out there were all sorts of forces working against Street News beyond the remedy of lively prose and a sharp blue pencil. But not knowing this at the time, I was full of passion, and I suppose that this -- coupled with the fact that I was the genuine article, a living, breathing creature of the streets -- got me the job.
That and my willingness to work for peanuts.
It also got me a place to crash."
 
 "I know that once I say "Street News," it's no longer about what I have to sell. It's about charity. Not that people mind a little charity. But when you petition them expressly on behalf of your own need, they tend to find it presumptuous.
"It sells for only a buck," I go on. "And if any of you would like a copy, please know that I'd be very happy to serve you."
Nothing.
 Not even a curious glance.
Sometimes it's like this.
But I know what to do.
"Now, now," I continue cheerfully. "There's no need to push and shove. I have plenty to go around. Please form an orderly line."
The humor nets me a few awkward chuckles and two sales."
(Published by Seven Stories Press. Reprinted courtesy of the publisher.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HOMELESSNESS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); NEWSSTANDS (76%); PANHANDLING (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN LEVI WASHINGTON JR (96%); LEE STRINGER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



182 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
In a Productivity Surge, No Proof of a 'New Economy'

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
NOTHING has been harder for economists to explain than the prosperity that burst upon the United States with magical suddenness in late 1995. In the absence of explanation, there was phrase-making. A "new economy" had arrived, and the words became a banner for all sorts of optimism. Only now is a realistic definition of the new economy coming into focus.
The computer, of course, is at its heart -- but not as a miracle machine spinning a golden future comparable to the industrial leap forward that came in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Then, the electric motor, the light bulb, the internal combustion engine, petroleum, natural gas and numerous new chemicals all came on the scene -- rearranging the economy and making it vastly more productive. The electric motor alone made possible the factory assembly line and mass production. 
 Enthusiastic voices today -- in business, politics and journalism -- proclaim that the computer and its offspring are giving America a similar great leap forward. That is not true, at least not yet. What the latest data and the most recent research show is this: Computers have indeed lifted the economy, but mainly through the manufacture of the computers themselves and the production of semiconductors, communications equipment, software and other computer-related devices.
"You have this relatively small sector -- collectively known as information technology -- that is enormously productive," said Kevin J. Stiroh, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and co-author with Dale W. Jorgenson of Harvard of one of several recent studies on the subject. All of them find that the new economy is still narrowly focused on the computer industry and its siblings.
The ripple effect across the broad economy, in sum, is still rather small, although it might be much greater a decade or two from now. Biotechnology is an example of that effect, a new science that computers facilitate, and it may in time bring huge advances in medicine, the sort of radical change that developed from the cluster of inventions that appeared a century ago.
Or, the new economy may be much more modest. The phrase may come to mean simply a speeding up of what we were already doing. Computers ease or automate shopping, ticket buying, hotel reservations, information gathering, banking, data processing, trade, manufacturing. But these activities always existed.
No one can know what the future holds. All this column can do is inject some skepticism into the current euphoria by chronicling what has happened so far. The latest contribution to our collective knowledge has come from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. In a report last month, the bureau listed the reasons for the surge in productivity since 1995, to an average annual rate of 2.5 percent or so, after more than 20 years of never rising above 1.6 percent.
Productivity is all-important. What lifts an economy is the output of its workers. The more they can produce without working longer hours, the more an economy can grow without shortages and excessive inflation. Workers increase their output through new tools, like a faster computer or more robots, or through a new way of organizing work, like the assembly line. Sometimes a new technology, like the internal combustion engine, also has the ripple effect of creating a new industry, like trucking. Trucks in turn expanded the marketplace. A bicycle factory could step up production, confident that the new trucking industry and the growing highway network could deliver bicycles quickly and inexpensively to stores and customers in more cities.
The report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics made clear that the recent surge in productivity came not from such broad ripple effects, but narrowly from computers. Only about 25 percent of the robust productivity growth since 1995 came from the use of computers, software and other information processing equipment. This is the ripple effect -- computers applied to biotechnology and e-commerce, for example.
The biggest shot in the arm came from within the computer industry itself, mainly from the manufacture of ever faster, more powerful computers and semiconductors. This was the source of more than 40 percent of the nation's accelerated productivity growth. Ways were found, for example, to etch more circuits onto tiny chips without adding manpower or cost to the manufacturing process. As a result, computer power plummeted in price, and sales soared.
"Wherever productivity is surging today, it is narrowly related to computers," said Robert J. Gordon, a Northwestern University economist.
What is ahead? Well, information technology is now everywhere, and even if prices stop falling and computer power levels off, just making better use of all the new equipment already in place should continue to give some boost to productivity "until everyone is fully adapted," said Joel Mokyr, an economics historian at Northwestern.
Mr. Mokyr, an optimist, expects information technology to be the source of another great leap forward. Ultimately, however, the new computer-based technologies might not pack the wallop of the electric motor and the internal combustion engine. "We won't know," Mr. Mokyr said, "until 50 years from now, when we can look back."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart:
From 1995 through 1998, labor productivity grew at an annual average rate of 2.3 percent. Here are its main components.
 
Manufacture of computers, semi-conductors -- 0.9%
Use of computers, software -- 0.8%
Other -- 0.6%
 
(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (66%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NEW ECONOMY (92%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); STATISTICS (87%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); COMPUTER MAKERS (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); NATURAL GAS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); INFORMATION SCIENCE (69%); WRITERS (68%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (67%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



183 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 6; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NEW YORK UP CLOSE;
New Yorkers Like to Work Here, But Say the Living Isn't So Easy

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
Is life in the city getting better?
For half the New Yorkers who responded to a City Council poll, the answer was a resounding "not really." 
 But the results of the poll, which were released Wednesday, were not all gloomy. Eighty-three percent of the 2,100 respondents to the random telephone survey rated the city as a good or excellent place for economic opportunity. Sixty-eight percent gave the same positive rating to the city as a place to live.
The survey, sponsored by the City Council and conducted in August by researchers at the Baruch College School of Public Affairs, was the first of what the Council expects to be an annual poll of public opinion about the performance of city government. The survey had a 3 percent margin of error.
(Despite the fact that those polled were kept on the phone for almost half an hour, 80 percent of the people called agreed to participate.)
Respondents cited education, crime and housing as issues that should be the top priorities of city government. Issues like police misconduct, taxes and the environment, which often make their way into headlines and mayoral politics, were low on the list of concerns.
Perhaps most surprising were findings on more narrowly drawn questions about life in the city and the quality of government services. Respondents clearly indicated that they worried about the cost of housing, with 31 percent saying they were paying more than they could afford, and 45 percent saying they had seriously considered leaving the city because housing costs were so high.
Among the most bothersome problems cited were an unexpectedly long list of seemingly minor complaints: broken pay phones, overflowing public trash containers, suspicious tap water, dim street lights, waiting on hold for a 911 operator, littered sidewalks, the lack of public toilets, and taxicabs that ignore waiting passengers.
The City Council speaker, Peter F. Vallone, said of these findings: "New York is a first-rate city with a booming economy. We should expect that our trash baskets don't overflow and that our pay phones shouldn't all be broken."
Public libraries and parks were the services that got the highest marks.
When those polled were asked how they felt about the people running city government, 46 percent said they had "some confidence." Another 27 percent said they had either "very little confidence" or "no confidence at all." THOMAS J. LUECK
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "POLL -- Thumbs Up, Thumbs Down"
 
Rating New York as a place to live
 
Excellent: 20%
Don't know: 1%
Poor: 7%
Good: 48%
Only fair: 24%
 
As a place for work and economic opportunity
 
Excellent: 44%
Don't know: 2%
Poor: 4%
Good: 39%
Only fair: 12%
 
Has the city become better or worse in the last few years?
 
A better place: 48%
Don't know: 3%
Same: 35%
Worse: 15%
 
Confidence in the people running city government
 
A great deal: 19%
Complete: 5%
Don't know: 3%
None: 8%
Some: 46%
Very little: 19%
 
(Source: New York City Council)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CITIES (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); CITY LIFE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MAYORS (78%); POLITICS (74%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); MISCONDUCT (69%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (69%); LIBRARIES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



184 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 3; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: URBAN TACTICS;
Obsessive? No, Just Looking for a Parking Space

BYLINE: By LESLIE BERGER

 BODY:
AS a regular alternate-side parker, Janet MacAdam is likely on any given weekday to be hunkered down in her old Chevy wagon in the middle of the day, reading the daily papers or marking up book galleys as she awaits the end of street sweeping and preserves her claim on the curb. She is half of a somewhat bohemian couple, a chef and a writer, and they are the sort of veteran West Siders for whom paid parking is anathema.
But just how invested they were didn't become evident until Ms. MacAdam casually mentioned that whenever they leave their farm in upstate New York to return to the city, they do so early enough in the morning to be back by 1 p.m., in time to find a space before street sweeping and double-parking end at 2. 
 "You go down at 1:30, you're out of luck," Ms. MacAdam explained. "If you do it right, you only have to do it on Mondays and Fridays."
The problem is that once she finds a good space, she is loath to give it up, whereas her husband likes to use their car to tool around the city. "The biggest arguments my husband and I ever have is when he'll say he wants to drive downtown to visit a friend on Eighth Street," she said. "I'll say, 'You're not moving that car when it took me hours to find a space!' "
If Ms. MacAdam is the nester and her husband the adventurer in their domestic parking rites, you could say that Sandy Marcus is the hunter while her husband, Charles Zimmerman, is the hoarder-gatherer. They are parking foils. not unlike those couples -- all too common in the city -- in which one partner will cruise endlessly in search of a space while the other will happily pull into a garage after a few minutes of fruitless searching.
Ms. Marcus, a speech pathologist who teaches in the South Bronx, is a self-described Type A predator when it comes to finding on-street parking at the end of a long day. "I go through red lights if I see another car looking for a spot and think it's going to make a turn before me," she admitted. Her artist husband would rather not deal with parking at all; he's just too impatient, she said. Sometimes, though, when Ms. Marcus has parked her car but finds a better space nearby, she will have Mr. Zimmerman stand in front of it and hold it for her until she can repark their silver 1984 Nissan Maxima.
Does she feel this is ethical?
"Yeah, I do," she said. "Because I saw the spot, so just like in two seconds I'd be there. I don't think I'd do that if it was three blocks away, but if it's just on the other side of the street and I can be there in two seconds. . . ."
Neuroses are not uncommon in New York, and especially when it comes to parallel parking, a life skill so fraught with angst and comedy it was destined to inspire a dream sequence in at least one Woody Allen movie. (Remember "Bananas," in which two competing crucifixion processions dissolve into a brawl over a place to park their crosses?) The distinctive parking styles of New Yorkers stand out in especially high relief in a day when there are fewer places than ever to negotiate for, as the growing number of cars in the city and static number of parking spaces indicate.
"Traffic has been growing generally about 2 or 3 percent a year, and you can just conclude that those cars need some place to park," said Elliot G. Sander, the former city transportation commissioner, now a private consultant and director of the Rudin Center for Transportation Policy and Management at New York University.
Samuel I. Schwartz, the former deputy city transportation commissioner-turned-consultant, whose many hats include that of Gridlock Sam, the traffic columnist for The Daily News, concurs. "It's harder and harder to find spots," he said, "and you have to be more and more creative."
Although the consensus among several experts on transportation in the city is that the strong economy has made parking tougher than ever, Deputy Transportation Commissioner Michael Primeggia disagreed. Mr. Primeggia said that more on-street parking was available, thanks to new, multispace meters the city had installed in critical shopping districts, along with relaxed alternate-side parking regulations.
He also noted that not every car entering the city needs short-term parking and that not every part of the city was equally saturated. "In our neighborhood in Brooklyn, my wife and I manage to find parking every day for two cars and we don't change our life around to do it," he said.
Even as the debate continues, several advocates of public transportation say the time has come for all city parking to be of the paid variety, even if that means installing meters on every block and charging by the minute in loading zones.
"The answer to this is called congestion pricing," said John Kaehny, executive director of Transportation Alternatives, a nonprofit watchdog group. "Capitalism says that when there's a shortage of something, prices go up."
How that idea would go over with parkers like Ms. MacAdam and Ms. Marcus is predictable enough. Besides, Ms. MacAdam said, on a few desperate occasions lately, she has even had trouble finding paid space in local garages.
IT helps to be a dare-ya kind of driver like Eric Greenberg, a high school history teacher who commutes daily from Manhattan to East Meadow, on Long Island. Mr. Greenberg boasts that he can nudge his way into spaces even shorter than his silver Ford Taurus station wagon.
"If I see a space that's two inches bigger than my car," he said, "I barely consider it a challenge."
"One macho thing a lot of people do is wait behind someone trying to get into a tight spot," he added. "You put them under pressure. You just wait behind them; few will try more than twice to fit in. I particularly get a lot of satisfaction from a person with a subcompact who can't get into a spot and I know I can get into it with my station wagon."
Like many city parkers, Mr. Greenberg looks not only for open spaces but for people with keys in hand, hopefully on their way to move their car. Others take this strategy a step further, enlisting strangers in their quest for a parking space.
"You have to beg them," said Ms. Marcus, who uses this approach. " 'Please do me a favor and don't leave your spot till you see my car coming!' "
Luckily, Ms. Marcus has never met Sandy Carp, a high school guidance counselor from Kew Gardens, Queens, who has little tolerance for such guerrilla maneuvers. Ms. Carp said she had twice encountered people physically blocking parking spaces near her home. In the more recent incident, she returned about 10:30 p.m. to find three generations -- a father, a grandfather and a young child -- standing in a parking space they were saving for an unseen relative.
"They're all lined up, the three of them, and I said, 'Excuse me, I'm going to get into this space,' and they said, 'No, you can't,' " Ms. Carp recalled. "And I said, 'You really aren't allowed to save the space.' There was no car in sight. And the old man said, 'Who's going to make me?'
"This time, I had a cell phone, and I said, 'Well, the police will make you.' So as I'm trying to dial they sort of all drift off somewhere."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Lisa Haney)
 
Chart: "CIRCLING, CIRCLING: Lots of Spaces . . ."
 
On-street parking spaces
Citywide: 3.5 million
Manhattan: 270,000
 
Spaces in lots and garages managed by the Transportation Department:
Citywide: 12,800
Manhattan: 868
 
Spaces in private lots and garages:
Citywide: 470,000
Manhattan: 165,000
 
Registered cars in Manhattan
1990: 198,945
1998: 210,948
 
Cars entering and leaving Manhattan below 60th Street (including taxis)
1998: 1,663,000
1997: 1,621,000
1990: 1,505,000
1980: 1,292,000.
 
Parking permits issued by the city to public employees: 152,000
 
*All figures except the final category are estimates.
 
(Sources: New York City Department of Transportation; Transportation Alternatives, Metropolitan Parking Association, New York Metropolitan Transportation Council, Automobile Club of New York.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); WRITERS (72%); 

PERSON: JANET MACADAM (77%); SANDY MARCUS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



185 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: The World;
How to Succeed in the Kidnapping Business

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: BANGKOK

 BODY:
IN the security business, there is a technical term for the Muslim rebel kidnappers of the southern Philippines, draped in new gold chains, conspicuous in pristine Nike sneakers and Ray Ban sunglasses, racing around on -- and often falling off -- their new motorcycles. The term is "decadent guerrillas."
Having taken their remote region's age-old avocation of kidnapping for ransom to new heights this year with the abductions of dozens of foreigners, they now have more money than they may ever have dreamed of or, clearly, know what to do with: some $15 million for two dozen hostages. 
 Cash rich, these few hundred rebels are buying sophisticated weaponry and recruiting new followers, and they have acquired a speedboat faster than anything in the Philippine navy. They are even kidnapping, and then paying "dowry," for new brides. Clearly, they are more interested in their decadent new luxuries than in their fight for a separate Muslim state.
And they may live to enjoy their spoils. A two-week-old military offensive against the kidnappers, who call themselves Abu Sayyaf, or Bearer of the Sword, appears to have accomplished little besides leveling several villages on the remote island of Jolo.
Not a bad business proposition for local bandits in one of the poorest regions of the Philippines -- or for a growing number of hostage takers around the world. More and more these days, dollar amounts are being placed on human lives.
"It's clear that this is a growing industry worldwide, though there is disagreement about how fast it is growing," said Paul Wilkinson, director of the Center for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland. "And it's affecting many parts of the world, like the former Soviet Union, that have been relatively free of it in the past."
Statistics are elusive in an arena marked by secrecy, corruption and sometimes the collusion of government authorities. Most often cited are the surveys of the Hiscox Group, a London-based insurer that tallied 1,789 kidnappings for ransom last year worldwide, almost all of them in 10 high-risk countries. That number shows a 6 percent rise from the previous high of 1,690 in 1998.
Brian Jenkins, an expert on terrorism at the RAND Corporation, a research and policy group based in Santa Monica, Calif., said Latin America accounted for two-thirds to three-quarters of the world's ransom kidnappings, with Colombia making up about half, followed by Mexico and Brazil. The next largest area of concentration is in Asia, he said, with the largest numbers in the coastal cities of China and in Pakistan and India. The former Soviet republics make up the next block, especially, he said, in the Caucasus. (The United States records fewer than a dozen ransom kidnappings a year.)
Security firms and anti-terrorism agencies increasingly focus on kidnapping, and kidnap and ransom insurance now generate $150 million a year in premiums worldwide, though companies that take the insurance are cautioned not to tell their employees for fear it might make them more attractive targets. Such policies provide money for ransom, and can also pay for the fees of kidnap negotiators -- which can run to $15,000 a week -- and even for psychiatric treatment for victims and their families.
As foreign embassies step up their precautions, experts say, kidnappers are looking for "softer" targets. As more business travelers and tourists venture into out-of-the-way areas, they say, more are being seized for ransom in what one analyst called "the dark side of globalization."
"I do think it's fair to say that with respect to terror as a whole we are going to see a major shift from government targets to the private sector -- to tourists or businessmen," said the analyst, Frank Cilluffo,at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.
Some kidnappings are intended to publicize a political view. These -- like the Iranian hostage-taking of American diplomats two decades ago -- can draw the most publicity. Other goals are to gain concessions from an enemy, to sow terror or even to dramatize a personal grievance. But in most cases, experts say, the bottom line is money, sometimes for a political cause but more often simply to enrich the kidnappers.
In the southern Philippines, for example, after seizing 21 mostly foreign tourists and workers from a diving resort in April, the kidnappers at first couldn't seem to make up their minds. They demanded a separate Muslim state, a renegotiation of fishing rights, the release of imprisoned terrorists in the United States and even a local ban on Christmas celebrations. After weeks of talks they reached their bottom line. What they wanted -- and received -- was money.
 THE great playground of decadent guerrillas is Colombia, where Marxist rebels control huge areas of the countryside. "They are free to do their stuff apparently untrammeled by security forces, who are not allowed to enter, and they are making vast sums of money out of the kidnapping business," said Mr. Wilkinson.
Kidnapping techniques are changing, too, spawning a colorful new jargon among security experts. Increasingly common, particularly in Latin America and southern China, is "express kidnapping," said Neil Gane, a division manager with the Hong Kong-based security firm Hill & Associates. Kidnappers take victims from one automatic teller machine to another, withdrawing the maximum amount of cash each day until the accounts are empty. Then the victims are freed.
In "tiger kidnappings," which have grown particularly common in Britain, illegal immigrants are held -- sometimes in groups -- while ransoms are demanded from their relatives at home, Mr. Gane said. "Bad-on-bad kidnappings" are an emerging tactic in business disputes among rival criminal groups, particularly in Asia: just grab some of the other guy's men and hold them until he agrees to your demands.
Security experts say the most difficult category is what they call "amateur kidnappings," in which freelance opportunists try their hand, oblivious to unwritten rules that can help assure a safe release. "They are more erratic, more dynamic and therefore more difficult to deal with," Mr. Cilluffo said. "You don't necessarily know what's going on in their minds and they may be itchier with the trigger finger."
The Abu Sayyaf kidnappers have behaved like amateurs, but they seem to have profited from it. They changed their demands, squabbled among themselves and beheaded two hostages -- both Filipinos -- when the mood took them.
But they grasped a fundamental principle of the kidnap business: hostages are not only a source of revenue but a human shield against retribution. Even as they released some hostages, and even after the military launched its attack last month, the Abu Sayyaf rebels seized more victims.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A girl reading a note to her father on a Colombian radio program that broadcasts messages from families of kidnap victims. (Associated Press)
 
Chart: "Ransom Sampling: The Price Per Head"
Around the world, kidnappers are usually driven by the desire to force concessions from governments or to make money - or both. As many as 75 percent of kidnappings are intended to force political change, according to Brian Jenkins, a terrorism expert at the RAND Corporation. About 30 percent are for financial gain, he said. He gave the following examples:
 
Sept. 5, 1972, Munich
Kidnapped: Israeli Olympic Team
Abductor: a P.L.O. faction, Black September
Demands: political concessions and safe passage
Status: 7 athletes, 4 Israelis and 5 Palestinians killed during rescue
 
 
Dec. 6, 1973, Campora, Argentina
Kidnapped: Victor Samuelson, Exxon executive
Abductor: Ejercito Revolutionario del Pueblo
Demands: $14.2 million
Status: ransomed after 5 months
 
Sept. 19, 1974, Bueno Aires
Kidnapped: Juan and Jorge Born, grain magnates
Abductor: the Montoneros guerrillas
Demands: $65 million
Status: Juan released after 3 months, Jorge held for 9 months and ransomed for $65 million
 
PUB-DATE: March 16, 1978
Kidnapped: Aldo Moro, prime minister
Abductor: Red Brigades, left-wing terrorists
Demands: government reforms
Status: killed after 55 days
 
PUB-DATE: March 14, 1994
Kidnapped: Alfredo Harp Helu, bank executive
Abductor: unknown
Demands: $90 million
Status: ransomed after 105 days for $30 million
 
Dec. 17, 1996, Lima, Peru
Kidnapped: almost 600 dignitaries
Abductor: the rebel group M.R.T.A
Demands: Political recognition, changes in policy, reforms for the poor
Status: 225 released within first month, last 72 held for 126 days, then rescued by force
 
Aug. 3, 2000, Bangalore, India
Kidnapped: Rajkumar, matinee idol
Abductor: Veerappan, rebel
Demands: release of comrades
Status: unresolved

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (62%); 

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (94%); COLOMBIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); INDIA (92%); MEXICO (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); ASIA (79%); PERU (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CHINA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (57%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (62%); ABU SAYYAF GROUP (82%); ABU SAYYAF GROUP (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ABU SAYYAF GROUP (82%); ABU SAYYAF GROUP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILIPPINES (94%); COLOMBIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); INDIA (92%); MEXICO (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); ASIA (79%); PERU (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CHINA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (57%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (93%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); TERRORISM (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (86%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



186 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: OFF THE SHELF;
Extravagant Evil And the I.M.F.

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL; Alan Cowell is the London-based financial correspondent for The Times.

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
FIRST Seattle, then Prague. The recurrent images of clashes between hooded demonstrators and police officers defending the barons of global capitalism have become a powerful motif for the protests and preoccupations of a new millennium.
At first blush, the demonstrators' rage may bewilder many Westerners. After all, whether the body under assault is the World Trade Organization, the International Monetary Fund or the World Bank, the institutions' stated aims are surely laudable: liberalized trade, economic rescue and development. 
 But the protests -- seizing on targets as disparate as finance ministers' gatherings and McDonald's outlets -- have touched a raw nerve at a time when the gap between rich and poor is widening, when many poor countries labor under unpayable debt inherited from the politically driven international lending of the cold war and when trade, for many, means little more than an uneven exchange of expensive Western goods for cheap commodities.
Nowhere are these issues more evident than in Africa. And as Michela Wrong's "In the Footsteps of Mr. Kurtz" (Fourth Estate) appears to suggest, no single African country has taken the bizarre interface of ill-fated international lending and corrupt politics to the same extremes as Congo, the former Zaire.
As the title suggests, this is not a "business" book or a dry academic study. It is a journalist's fast-paced account of the final years of the regime of the late President Mobutu Sese Seko, whose blend of greed, corruption and hunger for power fascinated generations of reporters from his rise to power in 1965 to his ignominious demise in 1997.
It is a book whose time is right, because it illuminates much of the current debate underlying the protests in Seattle and Prague. (Published in London, the book will be issued in the United States by HarperCollins next May.) It points an accusing finger at the readiness of the International Monetary Fund to almost encourage the errant ways of a political elite that it was avowedly rescuing from itself. And, not least for anyone who contemplates greasing the wheels of business in pursuit of a quick deal, it demonstrates the perils of corruption -- a force that, in Congo's case, led directly to a national implosion.
Mr. Mobutu was hardly a stranger to harsh scrutiny. No visitor to Kinshasa, the capital, in his heyday in the 1970's and 1980's could avoid the twin frisson of revulsion and bewitchment that the country inspired.
Here was a dictator -- as this reporter can attest -- who kept caged leopards in his garden, dined off gold plates and repelled insurgents with the ready help of the United States Air Force and the French Foreign Legion, even as the African bush seemed to be reclaiming his decaying capital.
Then as now, Congo drew outsiders into its heady web of bloodshed, absurdity and evil -- distant massacres offset against fine restaurants patronized by the elite, the pony-tailed pianist at the Hotel Intercontinental who played "As Time Goes By" and presidential extravagance on a scale as grand as the broad sweep of the Congo River.
All this imbues the rich, anecdotal tapestry in the book, starting with a description of Mr. Mobutu's henchmen fleeing the capital, carrying machine guns and Louis Vuitton luggage as rebels advanced. (The absence of the pianist in May 1997, Ms. Wrong says, signaled that the end was nigh for Mr. Mobutu.)
BUT Ms. Wrong takes the debate much further with her keen understanding of where, exactly, the Mobutu regime was coming from as the ultimate heir to a Belgian colonial administration founded on the awesome chutzpah of King Leopold II, who in the 19th century simply took over the Congo -- a country the size of western Europe -- as a personal fief.
Ms. Wrong, who covered the final Mobutu years for Reuters and The Financial Times, has woven her title from an allusion to Kurtz, the central figure of Joseph Conrad's "Heart of Darkness," whose dying words -- "the horror, the horror" -- have inspired legions of journalists and moviemakers.
She is quick to point out that those words have often been presented as an indictment of African ways rather than Kurtz's own acknowledgment of his own fall from grace. "Conrad was more preoccupied with rotten Western values, the white man's inhumanity to the black man than, as is almost always assumed today, black savagery," she writes.
And that brings her to the central theme. If Mr. Mobutu was the archvillain of his nation's tragedy, he was not a simple caricature, or, indeed, a man without a context. "The momentum behind Zaire's free fall was generated not by one man but by thousands of compliant collaborators, at home and abroad." This is no exculpation of Mr. Mobutu, but, in the present debate over the role of international financial institutions, it helps explain just why Congo -- and many other African countries to a less dramatic degree -- got into such an enormous financial mess.
Indeed, it evokes a central question for the international institutions and donors of today as they contemplate the morass left over from the cold war: where is the morality in imposing yet more fiscal hardship on nations burdened by the same debts as those the "compliant collaborators" in the international community helped to create?
Zaire is a particularly glaring example. But, as Ms. Wrong points out, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank were complicit -- by default at the very least -- in creating this monster. From 1975 to 1997, Zaire received $9.3 billion in foreign aid, much of it at the height of the cold war and much of it from the I.M.F. and the World Bank, at a time when the United States and other Western powers were determined to keep Mr. Mobutu in their camp.
Yet throughout this period -- and particularly after the I.M.F. installed its own representative, Erwin Blumenthal, at Zaire's Central Bank in 1978 -- those institutions knew full well that Mr. Mobutu was stripping the state coffers not just of aid income but also of receipts from Zaire's fabled riches in copper, cobalt and diamonds. Mr. Blumenthal subsequently reported ample evidence of corruption, but any effort to restrain Mr. Mobutu was thwarted by bigger geopolitical considerations. In the thinking of the time, Ms. Wrong writes, "No one wants to be the official remembered as having 'lost' Zaire, Kenya, Zambia or Tanzania."
Only in recent years have those same international institutions come to acknowledge that aid and other forms of assistance are inseparable from "governance issues" -- meaning that there is no point in trying to help people who are, literally, helping themselves to the state's riches. But, of course, the damage has been done. Debts have piled up, but forgiveness is hard to come by, usually involving wrenching economic reforms that look for signs of macroeconomic health long before they benefit ordinary people. And, in the bulk of sub-Saharan Africa, it is the ordinary people who have become more and more destitute.
Not all of their leaders were corrupt. Often enough, in nations like Zambia and Tanzania, misguided economic stewardship did almost as much damage as Mr. Mobutu's kleptocracy -- the term that came to be applied to the robber regime.
That, of course, is where the protesters in Seattle and Prague come into the picture, taking up the cudgels -- it could be argued as uninvited champions -- on behalf of those millions in many parts of Africa who have neither voice nor prospects.
Ms. Wrong does not, however, oversimplify or sentimentalize the argument. Her account of Mr. Mobutu's interaction with wealth is far more nuanced, pointing out, for instance, that state corruption is an expensive business. Anyone looking for Mr. Mobutu's rumored hidden stash of looted billions, she suggests, will be disappointed: if he stole from the state, he did so in part to finance a network of complicit and equally corrupt lieutenants, ready to repay largess with loyalty.
Neither is the issue made any simpler by the post-Mobutu regime of Laurent Kabila that seems a continuation of rather than a break with the history of venality. The protesters in Seattle and Prague might take note or, at least, cast a more searching look over those who lead the people that they champion.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michela Wrong's book recounts a brutal regime in the former Zaire.
 
Chart: "Business Best Sellers"
HARDCOVER
 
1 WHO MOVED MY CHEESE? by Spencer Johnson (Putnam, $19.95). Techniques for dealing with change in the workplace.
2 TEN THINGS I WISH I'D KNOWN -- BEFORE I WENT OUT INTO THE REAL WORLD by Maria Shriver (Warner, $19.95). Lessons about life -- private and corporate -- from the anchorwoman.
3 TELECOSM by George Gilder (Free Press, $26). How infinite bandwidth, with all its fiber and wireless optical technologies, will revolutionize commerce, creating a fibersphere.
4 THE LIFE YOU IMAGINE by Derek Jeter with Jack Curry (Crown, $21.95). The Yankees shortstop offers his game plan for success.
5 --THE NINE STEPS TO FINANCIAL FREEDOM by Suze Orman (Crown, $23). Ways to manage your money now and in the future.
6 THE POWER OF NOW by Vivek Ranadive (McGraw-Hill, $29.99). How companies respond to change with real-time technology.
7 THE FORTUNE TELLERS by Howard Kurtz (Free Press, $26). A journalist describes the Wall Street media machine and its effect on the stock market.
8 SISTER by Apple Parish Bartlett and Susan Bartlett Crater (St. Martin's Press, $35). The life and groundbreaking career of the society interior decorator, Mrs. Henry Parrish II, as told by her clients.
9 WHEN GENIUS FAILED by Roger Lowenstein (Random House, $26.95). The rise and fall of Long-Term Capital Management, the multibillion-dollar hedge fund.
10 THE TIPPING POINT by Malcolm Gladwell (Little, Brown, $24.95). How and why certain products and ideas become fads.
 
PAPERBACK
 
1 RICH DAD, POOR DAD by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter (Warner, $15.95). What the wealthy teach their children about money that other parents do not.
2 TAKE TIME FOR YOUR LIFE by Cheryl Richardson (Broadway, $13). A seven-step program for enhancing one's social and financial well-being.
3 LIFE STRATEGIES by Phillip C. McGraw (Hyperion, $11.95). How to define and achieve goals in life and work.
4 ORGANIZING FROM THE INSIDE OUT by Julie Morgenstern (Owl, $15). How to prioritize your workload and transform office space from a disaster zone to a disciplined environment.
5 RICH DAD'S GUIDE TO INVESTING by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter (Warner, $19.95). Learning from the wealthy.
 
Rankings are based on September figures of almost 4,000 bookstores and of wholesalers serving 50,000 hardcover retailers and 60,000 paperback retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets). The numbers are statistically weighted to represent sales in all such outlets nationwide. *Indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. +Some bookstores report receiving bulk orders on these titles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (93%); FRANCE (79%); AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (93%); FRANCE (79%); AFRICA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); COLD WAR (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); WRITERS (70%); FOREIGN LENDING (68%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (68%); 

PERSON: DEREK JETER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



187 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: THE BUSINESS WORLD;
In a Weak Ruble, Strength for Russian Timber

BYLINE: By JOHN VAROLI

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Russia

 BODY:
UNTIL a few years ago, the small town of Sokol in the Vologda region of northwest Russia was largely idle. Now, thanks to a timber plant that was nearly bankrupt, Sokol is coming to life again. Logs are brought in constantly by rail. Large tractors haul loads of wood. Even more important, employees are paid real money for real work -- a not-so-common arrangement in Russia's economy.
After a decade of decline, Russia's forest-products industry is bouncing back, revived by a weak ruble and rising domestic demand. 
 The industry is finding the sale of processed wood especially lucrative. In 1999, the country produced 110 million cubic meters of processed wood, up 25 percent from 1998. At the same time, timber companies are investing hundreds of millions of dollars in new processing plants.
The Sputnik Group, based in Moscow, and ZAO Ilim Pulp Enterprises, of St. Petersburg, are leading the resurgence. Ilim Pulp, which accounts for nearly 35 percent of Russia's pulp and board volume and exports 70 percent of its output, says it will invest $140 million over several years to modernize its processing centers in northwest Russia and in Siberia.
The weakness of the ruble, which was devalued in August 1998, has bolstered the industry by pricing foreign goods out of the local market and making Russian wood more competitive abroad. The weak currency has also prompted mergers within the industry.
Ilim Pulp, in fact, owes much of its current size to the 1998 devaluation. Founded in 1992 as a trader of pulp and paper products, the company slowly began to buy pulp and paper manufacturers in 1996. After the currency crisis, that strategy accelerated.
"These companies became cheap to buy, especially for us, because our company was, and is, earning hard currency from exports," said Svatoslav Bytchkov, Ilim Pulp's communications director.
Since then, sales have soared. They doubled from 1996 to 1999, when they reached $800 million. While the acquisition of timber companies caused some of the sales increase, the industry's revival explains a big chunk of it, Ilim Pulp executives said. They said plans include taking the company public and selling American depository receipts on the New York Stock Exchange.
Sputnik, an investment company controlled by Boris Jordan, an American financier, has spent $30 million over the last two years to build up its National Timber Company. The company is centered in the Vologda region -- it owns the plant that has revived Sokol's economy -- and it sells logs and sawed timber to Russian and European markets. Sputnik says it will invest at least $50 million in the venture over the next three to five years.
"Our main goal is to create a vertically integrated timber company made of units which are located in various regions of Russia," Mr. Jordan said. "We plan to acquire more timber companies, to implement modern production technology and attract more investment to this sector."
The company is riding a surge of orders for sawed wood as Russian furniture makers and construction companies respond to growing consumer demand. Sputnik estimated that National Timber's sales would reach $70 million in 2000-2001, up from $25 million in 1999-2000.
FOREIGN companies, including International Paper of the United States, Ikea of Sweden and Stora Enso, a Finnish-Swedish concern, are also investing in northwest Russia. Last year, International Paper opened a $35 million paper plant in Svetogorsk, 90 miles north of St. Petersburg.
More recently, Sweden's Sved Wood, a subsidiary of Ikea, said it would begin processing wood outside of St. Petersburg. And Stora Enso, one of the largest wood-processing and paper companies in Europe, said it would invest $40 million in a packaging plant in the Nizhni Novgorod region on the Volga River.
Some analysts are optimistic.
"Sputnik and others like it have good chances of being successful," said Lev Savulkin, senior analyst at the Leontief Center for Social and Economic Research in St. Petersburg.
But there are risks, he cautioned. Besides the chance that the ruble will become stronger, Mr. Savulkin said, "the growth of the Russian timber sector will depend on the situation on world markets -- whether or not demand will remain high."
"If the world economy slows," he added, "then Russian exports will suffer."
After the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, Russia's wood-processing industry was devastated as domestic orders dried up and financial institutions stopped providing credit and investment. In 1989, the country produced 375 million cubic meters of processed wood. By 1998, that figure had dropped to 88 million.
Although Russia has the world's largest timber reserves, with 1.9 billion acres of forest, or 22 percent of the world's total, the country accounts for only 2.3 percent of world output, according to Russia's Ministry of Economics.
The Vologda region is one of Russia's timber centers. Private timber companies have invested about $200 million in production there since 1996, said Viktor Gratchev, head of the regional government's forestry department.
Nearly 75 percent of Russia's timber reserves are in Siberia, but a lack of road and rail connections there keeps most of these resources out of reach. Vologda, however, has rail links to the port in St. Petersburg and the markets in Moscow.
Most important, business executives say, they can do business with Vologda's leaders -- a rare situation in Russia's provinces, where many leaders are suspicious of outside investors.
"The government of the Vologda region is trying to improve the investment climate in the region, and is ready to work with investors," Mr. Jordan said. His company, he added, cultivates close relations with the government and contributes to local social-service projects.
Alexander Zubkov, a former forestry official in Karelia in northwest Russia and now a timber businessman, suggested that such an approach was prudent. He said, "The government gives out licenses for cutting timber and can control organs such as the Tax Inspectorate, which can cause a lot of problems for those doing business."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lumberjacks have plenty of work in Russia, thanks to a weak ruble and rising domestic demand. Two worked in a forest near Svir, 125 miles from St. Petersburg. (Mikhail Dmitriev for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); SPUTNIK GROUP (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: SPUTNIK GROUP (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (89%); DEVALUATION (89%); PAPER & PACKAGING (88%); ACQUISITIONS (86%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (75%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); PAPER MILLS (73%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (73%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (70%); MERGERS (69%); PULP MILLS (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); PAPER MFG (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



188 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 17; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
The Plain Janes, at Center Stage

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
IN the stock market's new world order, boring is beautiful and the dazzlers have been dimmed.
That, at least, was the story in the third quarter. After years of outperformance, most of the stock market's raciest shares were overtaken by the mundane. Value funds beat growth funds almost across the board, and big-company stock funds lagged behind those that invest in smaller companies' shares. Even more unusual, Treasury bonds outperformed most growth stock indexes. 
 Perhaps most distressing to investors who have poured money into technology stocks, the gains of tech funds were far outpaced by funds that bought financial and health care stocks or real estate assets. Even funds that invest in electric utility stocks, as prosaic as the stock market has to offer, walloped the technology funds during the quarter. Only one group of glamour stocks -- the biotechnology sector -- continued to shine.
While the average diversified stock fund investing in United States companies gained 2.31 percent in the quarter, large-company growth funds fell 0.44 percent. Value funds investing in large-company shares gained 4.87 percent, but those buying shares of middle-tier companies surged 8.43 percent.
Of course, all of those returns were much better than the performance of the broad market indexes. The Standard & Poor's 500 lost 1.2 percent for the quarter and 2.2 percent for the first nine months of the year, while the Nasdaq composite index declined 7.4 percent and 9.75 percent, respectively. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 1.94 percent for the quarter but down 7.4 percent for the nine months.
Still, investors have a right to be stunned by the recent turnabout in the mutual fund sweepstakes. Growth stocks are still ahead over the past 12 months, but at the current rate of change, the one-year totals may reverse soon, too.
Christine A. Callies, the chief United States investment strategist at Merrill Lynch, said she believed that the shift in the market's leadership reflected a new aversion to risk and a greater appreciation of value.
"The market's struggle with the issue of fair value is nowhere more evident than in the technology sector," Ms. Callies said.
She noted that six months ago, many investors believed that the technology companies with the highest price-to-earnings ratios were invulnerable. But the prices of many of them have since plummeted.
Another aspect of the shift, according to A. Marshall Acuff Jr., a market strategist at Salomon Smith Barney, is that the strategy of concentration -- in which a fund manager bets on a small number of stocks -- appears to be less profitable than that of diversification. "Since this spring, the number of stocks rising in price has been increasing," Mr. Acuff said. That represents a big change from previous years, when a tiny raft of stocks was responsible for all the gains in the broad market indexes.
"Back in March and April we began to see a rational rebalancing of the excesses in the market." he said. "We're seeing a continued play-out. We're still going to have some high-priced stocks, but the reality is we continue to see almost weekly shortfalls in growth expectations."
Recently, such diverse but humdrum groups as tobacco, oil services and financial services have been pulling ahead.
ROBERT ADLER, president of AMG Data Services, which tracks fund flows, confirmed that investors were seeking a broader focus. "Equity inflows have been declining in technology and index funds but have stood up fairly well in the large-cap growth area," Mr. Adler said. "Investors are giving portfolio managers surrogate power to move beyond technology to those sectors that are performing well. Technology no longer reigns as a specific focus."
In the first quarter, for instance, technology stock funds received 28.3 percent of mutual fund inflows, Mr. Adler said. That figure fell to 11.7 percent in the second quarter and 9.7 percent in the third.
Unfortunately for investors who have grown used to buying funds that mirror the performance of a broad market index, this strategy, too, has been lagging behind. For many years, this passive and appealingly low-cost approach trounced the stock-picking of so-called active fund managers. But in the third quarter, active management triumphed. The Standard & Poor's 500, the basis of most index funds, lost 1 percent in the third quarter, compared with the gain of more than 2 percent for the average diversified stock fund.
Even among active managers, many winners and losers have been trading places, reflecting the depth and breadth of the market's shift. The most successful active managers of recent years are beginning to falter, and picking future winners based on funds' past performance is becoming more difficult, according to statisticians at Morningstar Inc. who studied performance over the last decade.
For each year, the researchers chose the 25 top performers -- based on their previous three-year gains -- and looked at how they performed the next year. On average during the 1990's, they found, these funds ranked within the top one-third of all funds in performance. But for the first nine months of 2000, the three-year leaders, including past favorites like Janus Twenty and Rydex OTC Investors, have settled squarely in the middle of the pack.
Topping the winners' list among diversified stock funds in the third quarter was the New Alternatives fund, which invests in small-cap companies. It rose 32.04 percent. Among the value funds turning up in the top 20 were Seligman Large Cap Value A, up 17.55 percent, and Vontobel U.S. Value, up 17.25 percent.
One diversification method that did not work well in the third quarter was investing abroad. The average international stock fund lost 6.7 percent of its value, largely a result of sharp declines in the values of the euro and the Japanese yen against the dollar. But economic woes in Asia also contributed to the dismal returns. The average fund investing in the Pacific Rim, including Japan, lost 12.58 percent of its value. Those investing in Japanese stocks alone fell 9.93 percent, on average.
With all the major market indexes registering losses for the first three quarters, some market strategists have wondered how the declines will affect investor and consumer behavior. After all, the stock markets have been delivering historically high returns for the last five years.
As for investor behavior, equity fund inflows have been declining throughout the year, Mr. Adler said, from $113.7 billion in the first quarter to $50 billion in the second quarter and $36.7 billion in the third.
The effect on consumers is less clear. Stock gains have obviously helped keep shoppers on spending sprees, which in turn have kept the economy moving. Will investment losses make them reign in their spending, threatening world economic growth?
Judging from one barometer, a considerably larger market tumble will be needed to scare away consumers. According to an annual PaineWebber/Gallup survey, involving 1,000 Americans, those with investable financial assets like securities and cash say their portfolios would have to fall 27 percent before they would feel it necessary to reduce spending.
Many market strategists note, too, that in each of the last two years, a weak third quarter has set the stage for a strong final quarter. In the third quarter of 1999, American stock funds lost just over 4 percent of their value, on average. Then they rebounded mightily, rising 21 percent in the final quarter.
The story was similar in 1998. A nasty, 13 percent loss in the third quarter gave way to an almost 20 percent gain in the last three months of the year.
WILL the past be a prologue? Charles H. Blood, Jr., managing director at Brown Brothers Harriman, said he believes so. As it becomes clearer that the Federal Reserve's interest rate increases have achieved a slowdown in economic growth, he said, it will also become more obvious to the Fed that it can lower rates late this year. And when that change in monetary policy becomes clear to investors, Mr. Blood said, he expects the broad market indexes to rally.
For the moment, however, investors who have grown used to following the leaders, or simply throwing money at an index, have work to be done and a new crowd to assess. While many investors may be tempted to hunt for bargains in technology, few strategists believe that these shares will turn in the type of returns that they did when the economy was racing. And even though many of the hottest stocks have cooled, most of the former highflyers remain expensive by traditional valuation methods.
If an economic slowdown unfolds as Mr. Blood expects, some of the same companies that have done well in recent months should continue to shine. Electric utilities will benefit if the Fed cuts rates, as will financial services and companies investing in real estate. So taking up with the new stars in the mutual fund firmament could prove rewarding in the future, too.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Robert Neubecker)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BONDS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (69%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (54%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (54%); 

PERSON: ROBERT ADLER (67%); CHRISTINE A CALLIES (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



189 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 17; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1992 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
Where Else to Gaze When a Star Falls to Earth?

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
FEW grins were brighter than Thomas H. Bailey's pearly-white wattage a year ago on the cover of Forbes magazine.
Posing against a Rocky Mountain backdrop, Mr. Bailey, the founder and chief executive of Janus Capital in Denver, had little reason to fret. Janus was hauling in the largest net sales of any money manager in the mutual fund industry. Powered by huge bets on technology and telecommunications, its funds were topping the performance charts. "The Janus Touch" -- as the Forbes story was labeled -- was producing, in some cases, triple-digit annual returns. 
 Fast-forward one year. Janus's favorite stocks, the likes of Nokia, Apple Computer and Microsoft, are stumbling. The company's highflying performance has been grounded. Critics say the firm has been bloated with more money than it can effectively manage -- the Janus Twenty fund, which once had about 20 stocks, should now be called the Janus Forty-Five. Not helping any were the recent retirement of James Craig, the firm's respected chief investment officer, and a feud with its corporate parent, Kansas City Southern, over how it would be spun off.
Investors' doubts about Janus became evident in September, the first month in more than two and a half years that more money was removed from its funds than was put in.
But where else should investors go? In today's manic markets, even a major fund company can fall from atop the charts to mediocrity in a matter of months. As a result, investors have rediscovered a degree of caution. According to AMG Data Services, which tracks fund flows, more than half the new money that they put into equity funds in the third quarter went into large-cap growth funds -- not exactly the most conservative haven, but safer than sector funds, especially in technology, where they were more prone to take a chance earlier in the year.
A new collection of fund groups, meanwhile, has replaced Janus at the top, and their success suggests two strategies. Investors seeking some safety could choose a group like the Wasatch Funds of Salt Lake City. Its practice of value-oriented investing has kept it searching for unloved and undervalued companies and sectors.
Samuel S. Stewart Jr., president of Wasatch and lead manager of its Wasatch Core Growth fund, said his success this year was a matter of patience. Last year, instead of buying Internet stocks, he bought small- and medium-sized health and financial services companies he saw as undervalued. And his performance lagged behind market averages.
THIS year, that strategy turned into a trifecta. Health and financial services are two of the hottest sectors, and smaller-company stocks are outperforming large-company shares by the biggest margin since 1993.
"It's tortoise and hare," Mr. Stewart said. "What did the tortoise do different that put him in first place? Nothing. The hare sat down."
But some of the hares are still hopping. Granted, Internet stocks in general have yet to recover from the hammering they took in April. The average technology fund was down 1.7 percent in the third quarter, while telecommunications funds, technology's high-octane twin, were brutalized, falling 7.2 percent. Still, two of the top-performing fund families of the year -- the Van Wagoner Funds of San Francisco and the Turner Funds of Berwyn, Pa. -- lean heavily on technology and telecommunications, according to Morningstar Inc.
Both groups are frenetic traders, and both have dumped the older technology champions in favor of the newest. "There's a real changing of the guard in the technology business," said Garrett Van Wagoner, president of the Van Wagoner Funds."The desktop companies -- Intel, Microsoft, Dell -- are becoming old-economy companies. The desktop isn't sexy anymore. Bill Gates is kind of an old fogy. He's 43 with a zillion dollars and kids."
The most pronounced move of the third quarter was a surge in value funds, which closed the gap with growth funds for the year.
The technology boom of last year was ruled by growth investors, who look for companies with accelerating earnings, with less regard for price. As a result, the Internet-shy strategy of Mr. Stewart at his flagship Wasatch Core Growth fund failed to bring Janus-like returns. The fund, which Morningstar categorizes as a combination of growth and value investing, gained 19.3 percent last year, two percentage points behind the Standard & Poor's 500 index.
Through the first nine months this year, however, it is up 23.2 percent, compared with the 2.4 percent decline of the S.& P.
Last year, Mr. Stewart said, he found growing companies selling at 10 to 15 times earnings, "and that's an awfully attractive price." But to many people, he said, a company with steady 20 percent earnings growth was boring.
"People said you could always come back to it, so they jumped from high quality to chase after Internet stocks," he said.
The Wasatch Core Growth fund, with $290 million in assets, had an especially strong third quarter, gaining more than 13.7 percent. Surges in some of its financial services holdings propelled it into the top 1 percent of small-company funds that blend value and growth styles, according to Morningstar. One top pick, and the fund's largest holding, was AmeriCredit, a Fort Worth-based lender to people with low credit ratings. Though subprime lending has become something of an investor untouchable, especially after First Union's shuttering of the Money Store earlier this year, Mr. Stewart said he believes AmeriCredit is simply a well-managed company in an out-of-favor industry. In the quarter, the stock gained nearly 70 percent.
"We haven't done a whole lot different this year than in previous years," Mr. Stewart said. "Some years, the market is more generous to us."
Make that many years: Wasatch Core Growth ranks in the top 20 percent of its peer group for the last decade.
Value investing, though, has certainly been no cure-all, given how much better growth funds, especially in technology, have done in previous years.
"It's a little bit of a victory for the old economy," said John Rekenthaler, director of research at Morningstar. "They need about 30 more quarters like this to make up for 1998 and 1999. It's like a team giving up four touchdowns to the St. Louis Rams and getting a few six-yard runs and a first down. No value managers should be crowing."
As the Van Wagoner and Turner groups show, some of the most successful funds continue to chase the sort of technology stocks that cause value investors to quiver. Mr. Van Wagoner and Robert E. Turner, the chief executive of Turner Funds, both rearrange their portfolios far more often than the average money manager, seeking stocks whose earnings and price gains have the greatest momentum. Mr. Turner said that turnover in his technology fund was about 1,000 percent a year.
While such an approach has the potential to generate high tax bills, this year it has also given them high returns.
"Momentum has been tricky, but it has worked for some people," Mr. Rekenthaler said. "It's a matter of execution. It was a tough quarter to be a long-term buyer."
FIVE or six years ago, most technology funds had similar casts: Microsoft, Intel, Compaq, I.B.M. But no longer. The breathtaking expansion of technology and telecommunications has made it harder to predict what one might find in such sector funds. It has also made it more difficult for professional and amateur investors alike to navigate the possibilities.
"Last year was a lay-up for individual investors," said Mr. Turner, whose firm also runs the $599 million Vanguard Growth Equity fund and $49 million Mercury Select Growth, part of the Merrill Lynch family. "This year is more sobering, a wake-up call. It's also a wake-up call for the big investment funds. The buy-and-hold strategy doesn't work."
Buy and hold, that most venerated of investing dictums, does not work? Mr. Turner says many large growth funds that are fueled by technology have kept some of their prized holdings too long.
"The really big blue-chip tech stocks have done horrible," he said. "There's new-economy tech stocks and there's old-economy tech stocks." He noted that personal computer companies saw earnings growth fall from 30 percent annually five years ago to about 15 percent this year.
Investors who avoided the largest computer-related stocks helped themselves during the third quarter. Intel's revenue was well below expectations. Dell's revenue growth rate slowed for the third consecutive quarter. And Apple warned that fourth-quarter earnings would be well short of expectations.
Mr. Turner and Mr. Van Wagoner both contend that larger funds -- those with tens of billions of dollars in assets -- are caught in a trap. They say such funds have grown by leaning heavily on the largest technology companies, but now they find it difficult to switch, or to keep up with the market's sharp turns.
"Volatility is huge," Mr. Turner said. "The Nasdaq trades at 2 percent swings 50 percent of the time. Guys with hundreds of billions of dollars can't do it."
In other words, they cannot move their money around without causing stocks to jump or dive, or without tipping off competitors. "You see their trades; their footprints are all over the place," he added.
Mr. Turner said his firm had sold many technology and telecommunications leaders, including Nokia, a Janus favorite.
So what has he been buying? "The common theme is that all companies need to buy servers, software and storage devices and create networks," he said, which is why he buys companies that provide those products and services.
He likes Juniper Networks, the maker of network switches and routers that is an upstart competitor to Cisco Systems. But his investment in a stock can be quite fluid. He bought Juniper at its offering in June 1999. After a big run-up, he sold the Turner Technology fund's entire position in March and reduced his other funds' holdings. Then, after Juniper fell more than 50 percent during the technology pullback in the spring, he bought back in.
Mr. Van Wagoner also favors providers of Internet services and expertise. "Most of the companies are involved in Web-ifying the G.M.'s, bringing the big companies up to speed," he said.
His firm invested last year in Interwoven, a Silicon Valley builder of software for corporate Web sites, while it was still a private company. Interwoven went public last October at $17 a share, and the firm trimmed its position in February, when it was as high as $80.06. When he jumped back in, during April, it was in the $20-to-$30 range.
For the record, investors should not count out Janus because of a disappointing year. Of the 14 equity funds that have existed since the beginning of the year, 8 have lost money. But the millions of investors who were with Janus at the beginning of last year still have excellent returns, and most appear to be giving its fund managers the benefit of the doubt, or at least more time to right the ship.
FOR all the risks of the Janus investing strategy, its executives are not interested in becoming another Fidelity Investments, a full-service investment firm with a broad menu of offerings. They intend to stick with a relatively small collection of funds that aim to top the charts.
Scott Schoelzel, manager of Janus Twenty, said that after several strong years, Janus's weaker performance this year should be no great surprise.
"I expected this to be a tough year," he said. "You had a fairly precipitous rise in rates by the Fed, a move in oil that surprised most people. Look at our funds over 3 years, 5 years, 10 years or 15 years. It's become fashionable to take shots at Janus."
With no false modesty, he compared Janus to another champion who goes through mild slumps only to come back mightier than ever.
"We're Tiger Woods," he said. "We've gone six months without winning a tournament."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Down From the Mountaintop"
The Janus fund family, a performance leader in 1999, has fallen back this year. Here is how it compared with the top 10 fund families for the first three quarters, ranked by relative performance. For example, the average fund managed by Van Wagoner was in the top 6 percent of its peer group. The average Janus fund was in the bottom half.
 
FUND FAMILY*
 
Van Wagoner
ASSETS through 3rd qtr. -- $3,824
AVERAGE RANK (PERCENTILE) IN PEER GROUP -- 5.8
 
Wasatch
ASSETS through 3rd qtr. -- 934
AVERAGE RANK (PERCENTILE) IN PEER GROUP -- 10.4
 
First Funds
ASSETS through 3rd qtr. -- 1,701
AVERAGE RANK (PERCENTILE) IN PEER GROUP -- 13.0
 
Intrust
ASSETS through 3rd qtr. -- 675
AVERAGE RANK (PERCENTILE) IN PEER GROUP -- 14.0
 
Salomon Brothers
ASSETS through 3rd qtr. -- 2,828
AVERAGE RANK (PERCENTILE) IN PEER GROUP -- 15.7
 
Sentinel
ASSETS through 3rd qtr. -- 2,845
AVERAGE RANK (PERCENTILE) IN PEER GROUP -- 16.0
 
Thornburg
ASSETS through 3rd qtr. -- 3,161
AVERAGE RANK (PERCENTILE) IN PEER GROUP -- 17.5
 
Turner
ASSETS through 3rd qtr. -- 2,457
AVERAGE RANK (PERCENTILE) IN PEER GROUP -- 18.7
 
Conseco
ASSETS through 3rd qtr. -- 1,072
AVERAGE RANK (PERCENTILE) IN PEER GROUP -- 19.0
 
Schroder
ASSETS through 3rd qtr. -- 617
AVERAGE RANK (PERCENTILE) IN PEER GROUP -- 20.7
 
Janus
ASSETS through 3rd qtr. -- 227,753
AVERAGE RANK (PERCENTILE) IN PEER GROUP -- 63.0
 
*Families with less than $500 million in assets excluded.
(Source: Morningstar Inc.)(pg. 28)
 
Graph: "A Janus Fund vs. the New Leaders"
The lagging performance of the Janus Twenty, which has been one of Janus's best-performing funds, compared with that of three of this year's successes.
 
2000 QUARTERLY TOTAL RETURNS
 
Graph tracks Janus Twenty, Turner Midcap Growth, Van Wagoner Emerging Growth and Wasatch Core Growth.
(Source: Morningstar Inc.)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JNS (NYSE) (94%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); KSU (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (55%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (90%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (90%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JANUS CAPITAL GROUP INC (94%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN (55%); AMG DATA SERVICES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); COLORADO, USA (90%); UTAH, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (90%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



190 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 17; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2130 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
So, Three Doctors Walk Into a Fund Company. . .

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
IN the summer of 1999, Dr. Camilo Martinez was treating the working poor of the San Fernando Valley in a clinic north of Los Angeles. A year later, he was sitting in a courtroom in Boston, monitoring the health of a very different subject: the shares of Amgen, the biotechnology company.
That drastic change of venue offers a glimpse of the transformation of Dr. Martinez and two colleagues from doctors to co-managers of two of the hottest -- and most volatile -- mutual funds. In abandoning internal medicine for finance, Dr. Martinez followed their lead in joining Dresdner RCM to run its Biotechnology fund and its Global Health Care fund. 
 No lives hung in the balance in Boston, but Dr. Martinez's employer had almost $1 billion at stake. His handicapping of the outcome would factor into decisions about whether Dresdner RCM should hold or sell that stock.
Still, Dr. Martinez was not breaking a sweat. "Here, you have the responsibility for billions of dollars of investors' money," he said. "Then, I had the responsibility for patients' lives. I think the stress as a doctor was greater. This can be bad, but it's worse when a patient's not doing well."
Dr. Martinez and his co-managers, Dr. Faraz Naqvi and Dr. Michael Dauchot, see their rare combination of skills as helping to explain why both of their funds have been among the best performers in their categories this year. And because biotechnology and health care have been two of the market's hottest sectors, the funds have been among the overall performance leaders, too. The Biotechnology fund had the highest return of any fund in the health care sector during the third quarter, 26.7 percent, and was the leading fund in any category over the last 12 months, with a gain of 263.9 percent. Global Health Care was up 18.8 percent for the quarter and 155.8 percent for the 12 months.
Dr. Martinez, 35, was headed to business school at the University of California at Los Angeles when Dr. Naqvi, who knew him from their student days at Harvard Medical School, hired him a year ago.
Dr. Naqvi, 34, earned a master's degree in economics from Cambridge University in England before medical school. As a radiology resident at the University of California at San Francisco, he was hired by McKinsey & Company, the consulting firm. He later worked in stock research at Montgomery Securities, and then at Dresdner RCM.
Dr. Dauchot, 37, also harbored a keen interest in business. For three years after he finished medical school, he spent his days seeing urgent-care patients at the Hammond Clinic in Munster, Ind., and his evenings in Chicago taking classes at the business school of Northwestern University.
"I look at myself as first an investor and then a doctor," said Dr. Dauchot, who specializes in analyzing companies that make medical equipment. He saw a similarity between investing and his first career. "In emergency medicine, you have to make some tough decisions with limited information," he said. "You have to think quickly and just go with your gut in many cases."
The funds managed by this team belong to Dresdner RCM, a mutual fund company in San Francisco that is owned by Dresdner Bank of Germany. Both funds have no loads, or sales charges.
Investors have taken notice. Near the end of 1999, Global Health Care had only $6 million in assets, and $4 million of that was a temporary investment by Dresdner Bank, the doctors said. The Biotechnology fund had about $14 million. Global Health Care now has about $180 million, and the Biotechnology fund has swelled to $950 million, they said.
"A year ago, we were nonplayers. Nobody knew we ran mutual funds," Dr. Naqvi said. "We've actually been getting tons of cash lately."
But Emily Hall, an analyst at Morningstar Inc. in Chicago, warned that the tide could run out as fast as it came in, forcing the managers to sell stocks to cash out investors. Health care sector funds, especially biotechnology funds, are notoriously cyclical, she said. Investors considering a leap into the sector should remember what became of the Internet stock funds that were last year's darlings.
"The biotech sector has periods of unbridled optimism followed by periods of whatever the opposite of unbridled optimism is," Ms. Hall said. "The bottom line of funds like these is that you need to be aware of your own tolerance for volatility."
Dr. Naqvi himself discourages investors from putting much more than 5 percent of their net worth into biotechnology stocks. The managers try to limit the funds' volatility by holding as many as 60 stocks in each, but even so, he said, "I've told investors openly, biotech is really risky."
He and his co-managers attribute their impressive returns not only to their experience as doctors and their backgrounds in science, but also to their relative calm amid the market's volatility, especially in biotechnology stocks. They have stood out in the last year largely because they bought biotech stocks when other investors were rushing to sell them and because they made big, early bets on genomics stocks like Human Genome Sciences.
"The reputation of doctors generally is they're terrible investors," Dr. Naqvi said. "Some of the business decisions I've seen doctors make have left my head spinning."
THE managers may have spent more time studying patients' charts than stock charts, but "we're really fundamental analysts," he said, in the sense that they evaluate the financial promise of new drugs.
"All the way from the small biotech companies to the giant pharmaceutical companies like Eli Lilly, what determines their stock price is how good their products are, and the best people to judge that are the doctors and the scientists who really know," he said.
But Dr. Naqvi and his colleagues understand that those products are developed not in a vacuum, but amid a swirl of legal and political forces that can be hard to predict. That is why Dr. Martinez spent a few days in a federal courthouse in Boston about a month ago, observing the trial of a patent infringement suit that Amgen had filed against a small biotech company, Transkaryotic Therapies, and a larger pharmaceutical company, Aventis of France. No decision has come down yet.
Correctly timing the ups and downs of Amgen has served Dr. Naqvi's funds well. Last year, when the stock sank after the company announced second-quarter earnings, the Biotechnology fund poured 14 percent of its assets into the stock. As Amgen bounced back, it grew to account for about one-fifth of the fund. "We made lots of money in Amgen," Dr. Naqvi said.
Early this year, the managers sold about half of the Amgen shares. Then, as the end of the trial approached in late summer, they were again buying Amgen, thinking that there was only a 10 percent chance that the company would lose. As Dr. Naqvi explained it, they were preparing for the one sure thing in biotech investing: investors will overreact to news, good or bad.
They figured that a victory could push up Amgen's stock by as much as $25 a share, to more than $90, while a loss could drive it down to less than $40. If Amgen won, they would stand pat and let the appreciation take Amgen to about 7 percent of the fund's assets. If Amgen lost, "we would load up," Dr. Naqvi said. "It would be a perfect time to make just an enormous overweight bet in Amgen."
Such willingness to take risks is what has made analysts like Ms. Hall wary about the funds since Dr. Naqvi became their lead manager in April 1999. Global Health Care had invested primarily in the biggest drug and health care companies. Dr. Naqvi sold many of those stocks and replaced them with Amgen and other biotechnology shares. Recently, as much as 35 percent of the fund has been in biotech, a greater weighting than most general health care funds ever have.
"Both have been very aggressive funds since he took them over," said Ms. Hall, who was critical of Dr. Naqvi's fast-trading style in his first few months. She said it was difficult to judge whether the managers' experience as doctors gave them an advantage over other health care fund managers. "These managers don't have proven records in a variety of markets," she said.
They faced their first test last spring. After shares of the biotech fund doubled in value in 1999 and doubled again in the first three months of 2000, they rapidly lost more than a third of their value in April as the Nasdaq swooned.
Both Dr. Naqvi and Dr. Martinez said they were not rattled. Asked about the reversal, Dr. Naqvi recalled how, as a hospital intern, he suddenly was called upon to deliver a baby whose mother was a teenager high on crack. He had delivered only one other baby. "Now, that's stress," he said.
For Dr. Martinez, the spring sell-off taught him a lesson. "You have to be able to capture market sentiment," he said. "When the market reacts, the whole group may suffer. There were several phases where it seemed like it would recover, then hit new lows. That's tough."
Dr. Martinez said the managers joked that "if we could have gone back to cash in March, we could have taken the rest of the year off." But because they try to stay fully invested, their best havens are big drug companies and what Dr. Martinez calls "tools and supplies" companies.
Those are profitable companies, like Charles River Laboratories and Invitrogen, that are vendors to pure biotechnology companies, he said. Charles River Laboratories, which creates genetically altered mice and rats, was one of the biggest holdings in the biotech fund last quarter. Dr. Martinez called it a "very low-risk way to capture the sector."
Amgen and another big name in biotechnology, Genentech, were also among the top holdings. Notably absent was another popular biotech company, Biogen. "Wall Street has a very big bandwagon for Biogen, but we've never been on it," said Dr. Naqvi, who sees a lack of promising drugs in development. "We don't believe they have a very good pipeline."
THEY prefer to take their chances on what they see as "a diamond in the rough," Dr. Naqvi said. As an example, he cited Avant Immunotherapeutics, a company that is working on a vaccine to reduce cholesterol levels. When the company was recommended to them by an Amgen researcher, its stock was trading for less than $3 and no analyst was following it, Dr. Naqvi said.
After Dr. Martinez spent a day at the company earlier this year, talking to its executives and scientists, the managers decided, as Dr. Naqvi put it, that "if this vaccine thing works, this stock is going to go up a hundredfold or 150-fold." They bought about 5 percent of the company's stock, which has risen to more than $10.
Now they face the decision of whether to take a quick profit or to hold on through protracted clinical trials and regulatory approval processes for potentially much more. "It depends on how strong our belief system is," he said. "There are other times when we say. 'Boy, we have just made a killing in this stock; let's take a lot of our money off the table.' "
Then, of course, they would have to find a stock that promises bigger returns. As the third quarter ended, Dr. Naqvi said, they remained bullish on biotechnology shares, planning to keep the Global Health fund heavily invested in those stocks at least through October. After that, he predicted, investors will start shifting money from biotechs into pharmaceuticals on optimism that the election outcome will not threaten the industry's profits.
"The biggest thing people are worried about is who's going to be in office," Dr. Naqvi said. His analysis: If Al Gore is elected, as he expects, and the Democrats gain control in Congress, drug stocks could fall 20 percent on fears of Mr. Gore's plan to change the Medicare system. By limiting some drug prices, that plan could reduce drug company earnings by 5 percent to 8 percent. But as long as the Republicans keep control of Congress, drug stocks will rise in the fourth quarter. And if George W. Bush is elected as well, that gain could be 20 percent.
Doubting that the Democrats will sweep into the majority in Washington, Mr. Naqvi plans to keep the big biotechnology weighting in the Global Health Care fund until after the election and then to start shifting into pharmaceuticals. "If my thesis holds out, we would try and reduce that down to lower than 20 percent, maybe 15 percent," Dr. Naqvi said of the health fund's huge biotechnology stake. "At that point, we would be more of a balanced fund."
For all their longer-range strategizing, however, Dr. Naqvi and his colleagues are used to emergencies, willing to confer at any hour. "We have a philosophy that we are 24 hours on call," he said. "If something occurs in the middle of the night, we call each other."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Faraz Naqvi is one of three doctors who run two Dresdner funds. (pg. 28); Dr. Camilo Martinez, left, and Dr. Michael Dauchot help run two Dresdner funds. (Thor Swift for The New York Times)(pg. 17)
 
Graph: "Healthy Profits"
A pair of Dresdner RCM funds managed by doctors, the Biotechnology fund and Global Health Care fund, are among the best performers in two of the market's hottest sectors.
 
Graph tracks changes through the third quarter since Jan.
(Sources: Morningstar Inc.; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMGN (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (80%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (80%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (51%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (80%); AMGEN INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (51%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); HEALTH CARE (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (76%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (72%); EQUITY RESEARCH (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: CAMILO MARTINEZ (91%); FARAZ NAQVI (78%); MICHAEL DAUCHOT (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



191 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
An Appreciation for the Numbers

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

DATELINE: HOUSTON

 BODY:
LAST month, Jeffrey C. Hines shoveled some dirt in Seattle. He did the same the month before in San Francisco, and next month he'll do some digging in Guadalajara, Mexico. After a string of sluggish years in the wake of the real estate crash of the mid-1980's, groundbreakings are again routine for Mr. Hines, the president of Hines Interests L.P. in Houston.
"We're keeping busy," said Mr. Hines, who after a decade of grooming took over day-to-day operations of the 33-year-old real estate firm in 1990, when his father, Gerald D. Hines, its founder, assumed the title of chairman. And now that the father, who is 75, has moved to London to lead the company's international projects, the son, 44, is making his own mark. 
 Gerald Hines is known for his conceptual and aesthetic skills -- he visualized trophy skyscrapers where others saw nothing but cow pasture. But Jeffrey, serious-minded and soft-spoken, is strongest in finance. "He's a numbers guy," said Marc J. Shapiro, vice chairman of Chase Manhattan Bank in New York, which has longstanding ties to Hines as both tenant and lender.
In addition to his ability to play tournament-level bridge -- and to tick off the batting average of just about every player in Major League Baseball -- Jeffrey Hines knows how to finance deals. During his tenure, the company has raised $6 billion to acquire and develop properties in the United States and abroad.
Typical is a $410 million fund formed in 1996 with the Trust Company of the West Group and Dean Witter Realty for projects in emerging markets like Brazil, Poland, Russia and China. There are also financing partnerships with the California Public Employees' Retirement System, the giant pension fund known as Calpers, and with General Motors Asset Management. "We used to raise money one project at a time," said Mr. Hines, who attended Williams College and Harvard Business School.
Under his father, the company seldom if ever sold or acquired buildings. Perhaps that was because Gerald Hines had a reputation for developing landmarks that helped to define the skylines of Houston, San Francisco, Detroit and New York. "Dad saw buying as a negative," Mr. Hines said. "He was into building, not rehabbing."
His father hired, and notably kept on budget, architects like Cesar Pelli, I. M. Pei and Philip Johnson to build the eye-catching properties that make up the company's 190 million-square-foot portfolio.
Jeffrey Hines appreciates attractive architecture, but he is more swayed by the bottom line. "You have to look at the realities of the market," he said, and if the numbers indicate, "you get over any attachment you might have to a property." Such was the case with Houston's Galleria shopping complex, complete with indoor ice rink, which Hines shed in 1999.
Louis B. Cushman, chief executive of Cushman Realty in Houston, who knows both father and son, said, "Jeff Hines has helped take the business in new directions now that the days of building so-called edifice complexes or corporate monuments are over."
New projects pay more attention to the interior environment. "Tenants are wanting more low-rise office campuses that have a more casual and open feel," Jeffrey Hines explained.
Mr. Cushman also noted the many projects that Hines had undertaken as a third-party developer, including the Audrey Jones Beck Building of the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston and the Boston Red Sox spring training ballpark in Fort Myers, Fla. "After the market turned in the 80's, it was clear we had to make some changes," Jeffrey Hines said. "It isn't possible to be just a developer in the traditional sense anymore."
That does not mean that Hines has abandoned traditional development. It has several projects under way in the United States and Latin America, but the push is overseas. Using cash from several funds that his son has amassed, Gerald Hines is directing large undertakings like Diagonal Mar, a $600 million, 84-acre project in Barcelona, Spain, that will include retail, office and residential space as well as a resort and public park.
Other large-scale developments include office and residential complexes in Germany, the Czech Republic, France, Poland, Russia and China. "Hines Interests is way out in front in the international arena," said William C. Wheaton, professor of economics and director of the Center for Real Estate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Jeffrey Hines said the decision to go global was, again, based on the numbers. "We saw high rental rates and high return and little or no competition," he said. And domestic Hines tenants had complained about not being able to find office space and housing as they expanded abroad.
GIVEN the opportunity to again build striking new properties, Gerald Hines moved to London with his wife and teenage children in 1995. Divorced from Jeffrey's mother, he remarried 19 years ago, around the time his son married. As a result, Jeffrey Hines's four children have an aunt and uncle who are their contemporaries. "It makes things interesting," he said.
Mr. Cushman said he thought the absence of Gerald Hines had made it easier for the son "to fill some pretty big shoes." When not trying to live up to the industry's high expectations, Jeffrey might be found playing cards with his family -- just as he once played cards with his father. A self-described "sports nut," he also loves fantasy baseball.
"It's all numbers," he said, "a great way to learn probability, risk and reward."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hines Interests, a real estate developer based in Houston, embraces both traditional and new ways of doing business, led by its president, Jeffrey C. Hines, above. At left is the Williams Tower in Houston, a Hines project. (Patty Wood for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (72%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (72%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (66%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%); BRAZIL (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HINES INTERESTS LP (72%); TRUST CO OF THE WEST (66%); DEAN WITTER REALTY INC (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%); BRAZIL (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (75%); BUDGETS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); BASEBALL (70%); FUNDRAISING (69%); PENSION FUNDS (69%); TOURNAMENTS (69%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (68%); CIVIL SERVICES (64%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (62%); 

PERSON: MARC J SHAPIRO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



192 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2832 words

HEADLINE: Business Awaits Its Regulator-in-Chief

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IT is the ritualistic dance that happens here every four years.
Although neither the Democratic nor the Republican presidential campaign says much publicly about a host of detailed issues of profound importance to corporate America, major companies and industries have been quietly positioning for months in anticipation of the election next month. 
 Turnover at the top of Washington's powerful regulatory apparatus is inevitable no matter what happens 30 days from now, on Election Day. And while any change in the occupancy of the White House means a change in the way Washington addresses business issues, campaign aides on both sides predict that a move to a Republican president after eight years of Democratic rule would lead to a tectonic philosophical shift in this city's most important agencies, and a major retrenchment in the Rise of the Regulator.
For all of the populist rhetoric of Vice President Al Gore, who has recently taken on big businesses in his speeches and compared himself to the trust-busting Teddy Roosevelt, no sharp policy shifts are expected if he should move to the larger office down the hall at the West Wing.
Mr. Gore has played a more prominent role than any other vice president in memory on a wide array of regulatory matters. He has installed friends and former staff members to be top officials at the Federal Communications Commission and the Environmental Protection Agency, for example, and has directed the administration's response to a variety of legislative proposals that have been adopted or killed over the last eight years.
Mr. Gore has surrounded himself with campaign aides who had been top lobbyists for many major telecommunications businesses, including regional telephone companies, Internet service providers and software giants like Microsoft. But campaign officials say that if any of them ever joined a Gore administration, they would leave their associations with their former clients behind -- and that such relationships would not translate into policy changes.
By contrast, corporate executives and lobbyists have been spending months preparing for the possibility of favorable rulings by a Republican administration, and the opportunities it presents for companies are being seen at just about every agency in town.
"The differences would be dramatic," said Floyd Kvamme, a partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the venture capital firm, who has been advising Gov. George W. Bush on technology issues as a member of the Information Technology Advisory Council, a group of about 250 companies from Silicon Valley and elsewhere.
To no one's surprise, Democratic and Republican campaign advisers said that on a wide range of issues -- from easing restrictions on computer technology exports to reshaping the nation's tort laws and making corporations more difficult to sue in product liability cases -- a Bush administration would be far friendlier to business than a Gore administration.
Some advisers say the differences between Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush in regulating businesses are as much a product of their careers as anything else.
"The place to start is Bush's background as a businessman," said Lawrence B. Lindsey, a former Federal Reserve governor appointed by Mr. Bush's father who is now Mr. Bush's top economic adviser. "Gore has never been a businessman. Bush knows what it is to try to run a company and how frustrating regulation can be. The frustration comes not so much from complying with any particular rule, but from meeting the rules and yet still facing hurdles."
Mr. Lindsey said the two candidates had fundamentally different views of the role of traditional economic analysis in making policy judgments.
"To Gore, cost-benefit analysis is a dirty word, and in fact, he once likened such analysis to being a license to pollute," said Mr. Lindsey, himself an economist. "Bush's view is that cost-benefit analysis should play an important role."
"Take, as one example, energy," Mr. Lindsey said. "The current administration is opposed to drilling, opposed to pipelines, opposed to constructing new electric plants. For a while in the 1990's, that was a luxury we could afford. We don't have that luxury anymore. The neglect of energy policy is something that has to end."
MR. GORE'S advisers respond that Mr. Bush is too close to business interests, that in looking at issues through the lens of cost-benefit analysis he ignores greater public policy concerns, and that he would tend to favor corporate over consumer interests.
"It's inconceivable that a Bush administration's Environmental Protection Agency would in any meaningful way resemble the current E.P.A., which has been headed by a woman, Carol Browner, who had been on Al's staff and was Al's choice," said Reed E. Hundt, a close friend of Mr. Gore who was selected by the vice president to be the administration's first chairman of the Federal Communications Commission.
"Or turn instead to the Food and Drug Administration," Mr. Hundt added. "It's inconceivable that a Bush F.D.A. would mount the kind of attack on tobacco that the Gore F.D.A. had done, trying as it has to regulate the addictive content of cigarettes."
Greg Simon, a top Gore adviser on regulatory and telecommunications issues, said it was naive for the Bush campaign to say the governor understands business issues simply because he was a businessman.
"George Bush failed in more businesses than he succeeded in," Mr. Simon said, a reference to Mr. Bush's time in the oil business. "And Al Gore has probably spent more time with the leading businessmen than anyone I know. And our economic policies have created the greatest prosperity this nation has seen. The fact that Gore never ran a general store doesn't mean a whole lot.
"The biggest difference between these two men is that Gore has a long and deep history and that he has done a lot of thinking on these issues, particularly telecommunications," he added. "In a Bush administration, these issues are going to be delegated. No one really thinks that George W. Bush is going to be sitting around the Oval Office thinking about what our nation's telecommunications policy should be."
Consumer advocates agree that there would be many differences between the two administrations, although they also say they have been disappointed that Mr. Gore has been less of an ally in recent years than he was earlier in his career.
"Bush isn't as extreme as the ideologues in his party and wouldn't throw out all antitrust laws, although he would clearly be less aggressive than a Gore administration," said Gene Kimmelman, co-director of the Washington office of Consumers Union. "But the fact is in the last four years, we've had the most enormous consolidation of telephone monopolies, cable monopolies and media companies despite the administration's attack on Republican deregulation efforts that would allow even greater concentration of ownership. It's hard to understand why, in the last four years, Al Gore, who had such a strong history of fighting for consumer pocketbook issues, has suddenly come down with laryngitis on these issues."
Still, some industries have been lobbying Washington on the assumption that the election will make a great difference to them.
The nation's largest accounting firms, troubled by a Securities and Exchange Commission proposal that would sharply curtail their ability to perform consulting work for their audit clients, have lobbied intensely on Capitol Hill and have made hundreds of thousands of dollars in campaign contributions; lawmakers have urged agency officials to delay completing work on the proposal until next year.
Some of the firms are hoping that, even if Mr. Gore wins, they can run the clock until after Arthur Levitt, the chairman of the S.E.C., steps down. Mr. Levitt has said that the firms' consulting work poses a potential conflict of interest for their audit work.
IN the broadcasting industry, the major television networks and media companies say they have received word from the Bush campaign that a Republican in the White House would mean scaling back -- and possibly eliminating -- ownership limits that have made it impossible for companies like Viacom's CBS and General Electric's NBC to grow any larger. The changes being floated by the Republicans would also repeal the rules that have made it difficult for a broadcaster to own a newspaper in the same city.
A few large radio broadcasting companies are hoping for similar relaxation in the rules, and have been working hard with the industry's powerful lobbying group, the National Association of Broadcasters, to prevent the government from beginning to license hundreds of low-power FM radio stations to churches, schools and civic organizations. Large broadcasters say the low-power stations would interfere with signals of existing stations, while the F.C.C. says broadcasters are really just concerned about competition for listeners.
Telephone companies, too, are gearing up for new battles, particularly among the regional Bell companies, the long-distance carriers and the competitive local companies. There is a widespread view at the F.C.C. that a Republican leading that agency would make it significantly easier for the regional Bells to finally offer long-distance service in many states where they have so far failed to gain regulatory approval. The 1996 Telecommunications Act, which Mr. Gore played a large role in shaping, requires the regional Bell companies to open their local markets to competition before the federal government permits them to enter the $80 billion long-distance market.
The Republicans have also signaled their intention to reconsider the concentration rules that have made it difficult for wireless telephone companies to expand their operations by getting more licenses for using a greater share of the airwaves.
Antitrust enforcement, more vigorous under the Clinton administration than at any time since the 1960's, is also expected to undergo fundamental changes, but only if Mr. Bush wins. Both Democrats and Republicans say that the ideological divide between the parties in this area is narrower than at any time in decades, but that there would nonetheless be some major differences.
"If there is a Gore administration, we're talking about more of the same," said Robert Pitofsky, the chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, who in a Democratic administration would likely continue to head the agency at least through next summer. "We've tried to carve out a middle ground which departs from the ideological warfare of the past. We are vastly more active than the Reagan years and somewhat more active than the Bush years."
For most mergers, there will almost certainly be no difference between a Gore administration and a Bush administration. But for some of the larger ones, particularly in the transportation and telecommunications industries, the differences may be stark.
Moreover, top advisers to Mr. Bush's campaign have been critical of several antitrust enforcement suits brought by the Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission under the Clinton administration.
At a recent antitrust panel discussion in New York, Timothy J. Muris, a top Bush adviser on economic and competition issues, said the Clinton administration had opened too many cases involving accusations of monopolization.
Mr. Muris, a senior antitrust official in the Reagan administration, was especially troubled by two cases that would likely never have been brought in a Republican administration: the Justice Department's lawsuit against American Airlines, contending predatory pricing, and the Federal Trade Commission for bringing an antitrust case against Intel, contending that it had refused to share technical information with companies that build computers unless those companies also turned over their own technologies in exchange. (The American Airlines case has not yet gone to trial; the Intel case settled last year.)
A BUSH administration would have powerful allies on the issue in Congress. Republicans lawmakers have vowed to strip the F.C.C. of authority to review corporate mergers, a position also supported by some in the Bush campaign; such a change would make consolidation far simpler among telephone companies, broadcasters and technology concerns.
"The biggest changes that the F.C.C. would see would be in merger reviews, where there has been so much lobbying to get the agency out of that business," said Andrew Jay Schwartzman, president of the Media Access Project, which promotes diversity on the airwaves. "Bush can be expected to resume the pattern established earlier, in the Reagan and Bush years, of looking at only competitive issues posed by these mergers, and not at the broader public interest questions, as the current administration has."
And that says nothing of what might happen in the Microsoft case, which is now on the docket of a Federal appeals court. Experts expect that a Gore administration would approach the case in the same way as the Clinton administration has. Advisers to Mr. Bush's campaign said they do not expect that his administration would do anything before the appeals court makes its decision, which could provide a wide range of opportunities to approach the case. Microsoft executives are hoping that a Bush administration would dispose of the suit on terms far more favorable to the company than those proposed by the Clinton administration.
For all of the philosophical differences between the two campaigns, the real power over corporate America in Washington rests largely at a handful of Federal agencies that are given broad latitude to interpret both the mandate of the White House and the legislation adopted by Congress.
While it is impossible to predict precisely who will be heading those agencies next year, there are some telltale indicators of what positions the agencies would take, depending on which party controls the White House.
It is relatively easy to imagine what those agencies may be like if Mr. Gore wins, because he has already played the primary role in selecting many top regulators.
In his book, "You Say You Want a Revolution" (Yale University Press, 2000), Mr. Hundt, the former chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, wrote that he viewed himself as an agent for realizing Mr. Gore's telecommunications vision.
Four of Mr. Gore's top campaign advisers -- Thomas Downey, Peter Knight, Roy Neel and Mr. Simon -- all have significant experience working for large telecommunications clients, and one or more of them could play a major role in the next administration, either at the White House or one of the agencies if they are interested in joining the government.
In a Bush administration, the top contenders for senior regulatory jobs include a handful of Washington officials like Michael K. Powell, a widely respected Republican member of the F.C.C., and Texas regulators like Pat Wood III, chosen by Mr. Bush to run the state's Public Utilities Commission. Neither is viewed as an ideologue. And both have described their roles as reducing regulation while trying to promote competition in markets that have traditionally been controlled by monopolies.
Mr. Powell, the son of Gen. Colin L. Powell, has staked out a position as the F.C.C.'s moderate Republican member. He has shown strong political instincts, working well with both Republicans and Democrats. (Before joining the F.C.C., he was the chief of staff to Joel Klein, the former head of the Justice Department's antitrust division.) Mr. Powell also enjoys an unusually close relationship with the leadership of both the House and the Senate, as well as with Senator John McCain of Arizona, the chairman of the Commerce Committee.
Mr. Wood has been Mr. Bush's top regulator in Texas for more than five years, and he has put into effect state and Federal laws aimed at deregulating both the telephone and utilities industries. Staking out pragmatic and moderate positions on regulatory issues, he has enjoyed good relations with both Democrats and Republicans on the F.C.C.
IN a recent interview, Mr. Wood said he and Mr. Bush shared the view that there is a need for some regulation in markets that have historically been dominated by a handful of companies, until those markets open up.
"The governor was clear when he hired me that the old way of regulating did not work for consumers and that market competition is better for the customer than government regulation," he said. "On our best day, we are not nearly as good as the market on prices and competition. But just backing out of regulation will be enough. You have to fix the problems of a century of regulation. So you can't just deregulate. You need competition first, and then deregulation. This is somewhat at variance with the more strident part of the party, which wanted to deregulate first. Then you have a deregulated monopoly. Who wants that?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Pitofsky, above, the F.T.C. chairman, is likely to keep his post if Al Gore is elected. Greg Simon, a Gore advisor, left at a rally, says the vice president understands business issues better than George W. Bush. (Ruth Fremson for The New York Times); Pat Wood III, chairman of the Public Utility Commission of Texas, and Michael Powell of the F.C.C. could have roles in a Bush administration. (Associated Press); (Mark Matson for The New York Times)(pg. 11); (Agence France-Presse, left; Susana Raab for The New York Times); (Associated Press)(pg. 1)
 
Chart: "Tale of the (Red) Tape"
Gov. George W. Bush and Vice President Al Gore have suggested sharp differences in how they would regulate business and choose regulators to enforce the rules. Among the most significant areas are:
 
Antitrust
Most mergers would continue to be approved by either candidate's administration. Experts expect that Mr. Bush, who has criticized the Clinton administration as filing too many monopolization cases, would approve more large mergers. They also expect Mr. Gore to pursue the antitrust case against Microsoft; Mr. Bush has not said how his administration would handle the case.
 
Banking
Campaign strategists say both candidates would intervene in the event of a sharp fall in the stock market, and would bail out large institutions if their failure threatened the financial system. Industry executives say Mr. Gore would strongly support rules requiring banks to lend to inner cities and the poor.
 
Energy
Both candidates say they would work to reduce dependence on imported oil. Mr. Gore focuses on demand, encouraging conservation and alternative energy. Mr. Bush concentrates on supply, favoring exploration in some areas that Mr. Gore considers environmentally sensitive, as well as less regulation on building refineries, pipelines and power plants.
 
Legal liability
Mr. Bush has proposed to make it harder for consumers to sue companies over allegations of product defects, and he would cap damages if they win. Democratic strategists say Mr. Gore favors current rules, and would support lawsuits against tobacco companies and gun makers.
 
Telecommunications
Mr. Gore favors continuing the slow deregulation of the telecommunications industry and maintaining limits on takeovers by the biggest phone companies and broadcasters. Republican strategists say Mr. Bush would rescind or curb rules that limit the size of broadcasters and cable companies, as well as rules that make it difficult to own both newspapers and broadcast stations in the same city.
(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (81%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (81%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (81%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%); PUBLIC UTILITY COMMISSION OF TEXAS (59%); PUBLIC UTILITY COMMISSION OF TEXAS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%); PUBLIC UTILITY COMMISSION OF TEXAS (59%); PUBLIC UTILITY COMMISSION OF TEXAS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUSINESS TORTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (63%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (63%); TORTS (60%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%); EXPORT TRADE (50%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (50%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



193 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: Foreigners on the Job

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Congress Approves a Big Increase in Visas for Foreign Workers" (front page, Oct. 4):
Harris Miller, the president of a software industry group, wonders whether 195,000 new H-1B visas for high-tech workers will be enough to satisfy the demands of the industry. But he already knows the answer: there will never be enough visas, because companies will never tire of replacing American citizens and permanent residents with lower paid foreign workers. 
 The myth of a "programmer shortage" in this economy needs to be debunked. There are thousands of programmers who are looking for work but can't get interviews because employers assert that the applicants lack whatever new skill the employers are looking for. This is shortsighted, because any competent programmer can easily learn a new computer language if given a few weeks.
 
KEITH CRAW
Oakland, N.J., Oct. 4, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EMPLOYMENT VISAS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); INTERVIEWS (88%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); APPROVALS (88%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (68%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



194 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
A Modest Poll Proposal

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
AND now for a modest proposal: Ban all political polling between now and Election Day.
The first presidential debate last week demonstrated at numbing length the extent to which polling is consuming both politics and journalism. Like human semaphores, Gov. George W. Bush and Vice President Al Gore kept signaling each and every poll-determined swing group that they were on their side. 
 There were dueling prescription drug plans for the elderly and education plans to woo the suburban soccer moms. Mr. Gore's denunciations of "tax cuts for the wealthiest 1 percent" of Americans were aimed at the lower middle class, while Mr. Bush's rejected "old-style Washington politics" in a bid for independents.
Next came the post-debate blizzard of media polls. MSNBC, with the help of the Republican pollster Frank Luntz, had 36 avowedly undecided voters in the swing state of Missouri using dials to record their reaction to every word of the debate. Fox News and SpeakOut.com were running a "Rate the Debate" forum via the Internet. CBS's online poll proclaimed Mr. Gore the winner by 56 to 42 percent. NBC's overnight poll gave it to Mr. Gore 46 percent to 36 percent. And ABC's snap poll said that Mr. Gore had won 42 percent to 39 percent. (In a bracing moment of on-air rebellion the ABC anchor Peter Jennings announced and then brazenly dismissed his own network's instant telephone poll as unscientific and meaningless).
So addicted has the political class become to polls that politicians shudder at the very idea of a survey-free October. Gov. George E. Pataki of New York, who was working the crowded press room in Boston before last Tuesday's debate, laughed aloud at the idea and said, "I don't think you could ever enforce it."
Bill Curry, a former aide to President Clinton, who has also run for office in Connecticut, said, "I'm just bothered by the image of the candidates actually reading actual entrails and how hard it would be on small farm animals."
But what if polls really were banned? "We'd be spared huge amounts of false explanations for why the candidates are going up and down," Mr. Kristol said. And Tom Rosenstiel, the director of the Project for Excellence in Journalism, suggested the nation's political journalism might improve. "Journalists have abdicated the responsibility of listening to voters in favor of listening to polls as the primary diviner of meaning in political coverage," Mr. Rosenstiel said. "We use polls as a crutch and it's weakening other skills we have."
For years now, polls and focus groups have been creating an echo-chamber effect in politics where candidates all address the same issues and speak with the same poll-tested words until every candidate seems indistinguishable. President Clinton even had the audacity in 1996 to take a standard poll question -- is the country on the right track? -- and turn it into a campaign theme, perhaps in a circular effort to influence the answer to the polling question. "We're on the right track and we're not going back," he cheerily thundered on his whistlestop train tour to the Democratic convention.
The emphasis on polling is now so pervasive within political campaigns that that they may be actively deterring original ideas. "It's always a danger in a democracy that politicians become flatterers instead of leaders," said William Kristol, the editor of The Weekly Standard, who was former Vice President Dan Quayle's chief of staff. "Pollsters don't understand that you can move public opinion. For candidates spending too much on polls it's like driving looking in the rearview mirror. You don't see what you can change."
Mr. Bush likes to proclaim he "won't be swayed by polls and focus groups." But then he turned around and started talking about an "education recession," a phrase Republicans proudly said was carefully poll-tested. He is no worse an offender than Mr. Gore.
News organizations have been equally seduced. These days are not just running polls, they are now running daily tracking polls measuring every tiny mood swing of the electorate. And the race is being reported on through the prism of the polls.
All spring when Mr. Bush was ahead in the surveys, his campaign was being called masterful, his victory inevitable, his strategists confident and in command. By August, Senator Phil Gramm, a fellow Texas Republican, announced, "I'm expecting our governor to win by maybe double digits."
Mr. Gore was seen as wooden and, horror of horrors, as poll driven. Many thought he was fading from the race. Yet come September, as the polls shifted, Mr. Bush became the hapless one, his malapropisms fatal and his aides reactive, while Mr. Gore had metamorphosed into a bold risk taker gleaming with a winner's confidence. "I've called it for Gore," Lawrence O'Donnell Jr., a contributing editor for New York Magazine, said on the "Hardball" television show. "I think he's unstoppable at this point."
Andrew Kohut, the director of the Pew Research Center for People and the Press, said that journalists this year were scouring polls to find backup for the narratives they wanted to write rather than using them to learn about the nuances of public opinion. "There are so many polls now that if you look around you can find something that underscores what herd journalism thinks is happening," Mr. Kohut said.
He noted that an astute student of polls in the spring, instead of ordaining Mr. Bush, would have recognized that public opinion was not fixed. "You would have seen how much volatility there was," Mr. Kohut said, "that you can't trust this Bush lead."
Michael R. Kagay, who directs the News Survey Department of The New York Times, said that The Times has a policy of minimizing the horse-race aspect of its polls in its coverage, and focusing on what polls show about the attitudes of the electorate. He said that as a general rule The Times does not put the horse-race matchup in either the first paragraph of a story or in the headline.
If there is one bright spot this year, it may be that the voters themselves almost seem like they want to confound everyone. Just when Mr. Gore looked like he was out of the race, the public swung his way. When Mr. Bush appeared in danger of permanently falling behind, he caught up. "People are contrarian in a certain way," Mr. Kristol said, celebrating the twists and turns of this year's race. "They keep wanting to do the opposite of what the polls tell them they want to do. The voters are less susceptible to herd mentality than the pundits."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Just what is it that the polls reflect? (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FOX (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); SPEAKOUT.COM (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TAX LAW (73%); WRITERS (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); FOCUS GROUPS (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (56%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



195 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Our Place in the Balkans

BYLINE: By Anthony Lake; Anthony Lake, author of the forthcoming "Six Nightmares," was national security adviser from 1993 to 1997.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
We once celebrated the Prague Spring; we now have the Milosevic Fall. After a little rejoicing over what seems to be the final political demise of Slobodan Milosevic, we should consider the broader meaning of his imminent departure. Does it vindicate, as some suggest, those arguing in this campaign season for peacekeeping interventionism?
Up to a point. Mr. Milosevic's fall is Exhibit A for their case. Had NATO not intervened in Bosnia and Kosovo, with American leadership, Mr. Milosevic almost certainly would still hold power. 
 Still, our debate on "humanitarian intervention" must continue with greater specificity on when, where and especially why such interventions should take place. Without clearly stating the purpose of each operation, we cannot define its success, and thus, we cannot know when to bring our peacekeepers home.
Kosovo is a case in point. The presence of a new leader in Belgrade does not mean that we can breathe a collective sigh of relief and assume that all the Balkan pieces will fall into place. For the future of Kosovo and the mission of our peacekeepers there remain unresolved. Indeed, the Gordian knot in Kosovo may just have tightened.
The Kosovars' revolt was not only against Mr. Milosevic, but part of their far older drive for national freedom. Serbia's new president, Vojislav Kostunica, may offer, as we hope, dialogue and limited compromise with the Kosovars -- perhaps even conceding them some form of real autonomy or even a loose confederation. But no Serbian leader is likely to violate his country's own sense of mystical nationalism by giving the Kosovars that independence. And if Mr. Kostunica makes what seem to be reasonable offers, it will be nearly impossible for the international community to go beyond its current position that Kosovo remains legally a part of Yugoslavia.
This conflict could produce a lengthy stalemate. Our peacekeepers could end up, in the eyes of the Kosovars, not as their liberators, but as an occupying force denying them their independence.
The danger of this trap, which should be addressed now, is outweighed by the strategic opportunities before us. President Clinton, in early 1994, outlined his vision of a "peaceful, undivided and democratic"' Europe. Such a Europe may be a generation or two away, but the forces of globalization, if not the policies of governments, will some day make it real. And it is deeply in our interest.
Our interventions in Bosnia and Kosovo were not only humanitarian. They were essential to the pursuit of our vision of an undivided Europe. Our vision includes not only integration to the east, but also the embrace of southeastern Europe, including the Balkans. And Serbia must be included, because it is the region's geographic, economic and diplomatic heart. So long as something was rotten in Belgrade, such integration was impossible. Now, we can and need to push ahead not only on the futures of Kosovo and Montenegro, but also on a broader understanding about the future of the Balkans.
The Clinton administration's strategy is not simply to broaden NATO and the European Union; it has also been to support the deepening of democracy. NATO enlargement has already created more peaceful relations among the states of Central and Eastern Europe. It also has reinforced democratic structures and habits within them.
In the end, it is the peoples of the region, not their governments or the international community, who will claim and preserve their freedom in a democratic Europe. The people of Serbia have demonstrated this truth, wonderfully, at their ballot boxes and in their streets. Our allies in Europe, with -- we can hope -- the Russians' assistance, now must take more of the lead and seize the opportunity that these brave Serbs have created.
Some in the United States will now say we need no longer bear our part of the burden in the Balkans -- just as some have argued, despite all evidence to the contrary, that we should never have become involved. But they have neither a sense of our strategic interests nor the imagination to see a Europe that, for all the bumps in the road, is becoming whole.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Lutz Widmaier)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PEACEKEEPING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); GLOBALIZATION (63%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



196 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: Environment Is the Loser In U.S. Energy Policy

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Energy Jolt: Who Wins, Loses or Shrugs" (Sept. 24), which looked at the varying effects of higher oil prices on American companies and consumers:
Let's look at the bigger picture. America stands alone among industrial nations in its irresponsible energy policy. Our low taxes on energy lead to dramatic overconsumption of nonrenewable resources, resulting in a staggering environmental toll on the world's ecosystem. Moreover, the overdependence on imported energy makes the United States more vulnerable to price spikes in the volatile oil market. (Oil price surges have caused three recessions in the last 30 years.) 
 Our country uses far more energy per dollar of economic output than any industrial competitor. Overconsumption is also a major contributor to our country's huge and worrisome trade deficit.
Yes, truckers do not like higher gasoline prices, but those prices will stimulate shipping by rail, which is far more environmentally benign and safer. Higher prices will encourage trucks to slow down, saving lives and fuel.
Higher taxes on oil would reduce our vulnerability to such price jolts and allow dollar-for-dollar reductions in other burdensome taxes. Indeed, designating part of the oil-tax revenue to reduce taxes on people of modest incomes would ensure that the net effect would be progressive.
 
THOMAS O'BRIEN
Charlottesville, Va., Sept. 25
 
The writer is a policy analyst. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ENVIRONMENT OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (75%); WRITERS (73%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); 

PERSON: O'BRIEN, THOMAS

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



197 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 8; Page 13; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: BackTalk;
Woman Accuses Duke of Going Wide Right of Title IX

BYLINE: By ROBERT LIPSYTE

 BODY:
As small and bald as many of his fans, Garo Yepremian scored 1,074 points during his 15-year National Football League career. He was not the first former soccer player with enough leg to place-kick, but his size and accent made the Armenian Cypriot a butt of nervous jokes. He was not a real football player, said some of the big boys on his team. And it was true that when it came to size -- Garo was 5 feet 7 inches tall -- he might as well have been a girl. The real players knew what they were really worried about -- girls.
The football those foreign-born soccer players kicked into the air nearly 40 years ago has not yet reached the ground. It hovered last week, like a blimp, above a federal court in Greensboro, N.C., where Heather Sue Mercer, 5 feet 7 inches tall, is suing Duke University for denying her an opportunity to be a place-kicker on its football team. 
 Mercer's contention is that she was discriminated against solely because she is female, a federal violation. Duke responds that she was cut from the team because she was not good enough.
Although the case will be decided by a jury, probably this week, on the basis of particulars, the larger issues are probably more interesting. If there are enough successful female kickers in Division I -- and the growth of women's soccer will create the talent pool -- it will be very hard to block the female wide receiver, tight end, gasp, quarterback and linebacker. It won't be footboy anymore. Is that necessarily progress? Beats me.
The Mercer story began in 1992. A 16-year-old soccer player at Yorktown High School, in Westchester County, N.Y., she watched the school's place-kicker and thought, she said later, "Man, that sure looks like fun." She told the athletic director, who took her to the football coach, Ron Santavicca, who gave her a chance. She kicked 20 consecutive field goals, from as far as 40 yards. Coach Santavicca suggested she go to kicking camp that summer, then try out for his team.
In the fall of 1993, her senior year, Mercer was on the team. In the first game, a 26-0 victory, she kicked a field goal and 3 extra points. Her leg held up that season as Yorktown won a state title. She made third team all-state. Her attitude was traditional jock. She dismissed the attention she was getting and often insisted teammates be included in her photo ops. They liked her. So did the cheerleaders. She told Kate Stone Lombardi, in a story for The Times's Westchester weekly section: "I don't even think about it like I'm a girl football player. I just think of myself as a kicker." Santavicca said she had "a real football player mentality" but he wouldn't let her kick off, which she said "makes me mad."
She was willing to risk being hurt, she said: "I think it would be really cool to get hit. You can't say you've really played football until you get hit."
A year later, a freshman at Duke, she presented herself to Coach Fred Goldsmith, who gave her a tryout. Or did he? The spin on these particulars is what the current court case is about.
In the offense that Burton Craige of Raleigh is fielding, Mercer was not given a fair shake; ultimately, she wasn't allowed to kick for Duke because she was female. In the defense presented by the powerhouse Washington firm of Fulbright & Jaworski, Mercer was just not good enough to kick in Duke's league even though Mercer won the 1995 spring intrasquad game with a last-minute field goal. Then, typically, she refused television interview requests, including Jay Leno's.
Among the questions the jury will ponder are these: Why did Coach Goldsmith let her kick for him, declare her a member of the team, put her picture in the media guide, then not allow her to suit up, go to preseason camp or practice with her teammates? The answers should lead to a decision that will probably show that Mercer's rights under Title IX were violated. If quotes attributed to Goldsmith -- that Mercer should go out for beauty pageants instead of the team and that Duke recruiting would be adversely affected by her presence -- are true, a pattern of discrimination will be established.
Mercer, an economics major who fenced for Duke, did not institute her suit until her senior year, when she had given up hopes of playing. She graduated in 1998 and works for Charles Schwab & Company in New York. Although no dollar amount was mentioned, she is suing for damages. She says she suffered from depression, the denial of educational benefits and "the deprivation of opportunities to participate in the future in amateur or professional athletics."
It's the word "professional" that should catch our attention.
The most powerful male bastion in American sport, and perhaps the last, is pro football. It is not hard to fantasize a woman in a major league infield, in a National Hockey League goal, even as a point guard once David Stern decides to merge the National Basketball Association and the Women's N.B.A. But, Lombardi help us, never in a Super Bowl where the manhood of all those Bud lightheads on the other side of the TV set could be dented.
Extreme football may be insurance against a Heather Sue Mercer winning her case and opening the traditional field to Garo's spiritual daughters.
I haven't even thought about any of this seriously in 30 years, since a 27-year-old, 122-pound schoolteacher, Pat Palinkas, became, it was thought, the first woman to play in a pro football game. The minor league Orlando Panthers put her in to hold the ball for her husband, the place-kicker. The snap from center was off target and she bobbled the ball. Bridgeport Jets linebacker Wally Florence, a 27-year-old, 240-pound youth counselor who had been cut by the Jets and Giants, crashed through and knocked her flat.
"I tried to break her neck," he told me later, for "making folly of a man's game. I wanted to smash her back to the kitchen."
Have our attitudes changed, are we subtler now, is Mercer messing with manhood, why can't she go be a boxer, if she still wants to get hit, it's the current rage? Does any of this pique you enough to vent to the lipsite@aol.com? Lawyer Craige tells me that Mercer would use her winnings to establish a college scholarship for female place-kickers.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Heather Sue Mercer, above left, leaving federal court last week with her lawyer, Burton Craige. At right, she participated in spring practice in 1995 for Duke Coach Fred Goldsmith, in background. (Photographs by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (58%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (94%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (94%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SOCCER (90%); ATHLETES (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); LITIGATION (73%); DISCRIMINATION (73%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (58%); SPORTS (58%); 

PERSON: HEATHER SUE MERCER (93%); RON SANTAVICCA (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



198 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1598 words

HEADLINE: Disgraced Mexican Is Back, With Accusations of His Own

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Oct. 6

 BODY:
More than five years after leaving Mexico in disgrace, former President Carlos Salinas de Gortari has returned for good -- together with a 1,380-page memoir written during his Irish exile and directed above all at his handpicked successor, Ernesto Zedillo.
In Mexico, Mr. Salinas's name has come to be commonly connected with corruption and greed, sins that voters also apparently held against his party, the Institutional Revolutionary Party, when they voted it out of the presidency last July after 71 years. 
 But the former president returned from exile last Tuesday to publicize his book, in which he accuses Mr. Zedillo, who leaves office on Dec. 1, of waging a campaign of disinformation against him to cover up what Mr. Salinas asserts was Mr. Zedillo's blunder in devaluing the peso and touching off the worst economic crisis in modern Mexican history.
In his book, which is to be released in Spain on Monday, Mr. Salinas says that after the devaluation, relations between the two men quickly deteriorated. Mr. Zedillo's "resentful" character, he writes, led him to seek political revenge by first arresting Mr. Salinas's eldest brother, Raul, on murder charges and then preparing an arrest order against the former president himself for supposedly obstructing the investigation into the assassination of the party's presidential candidate in 1994.
A spokesman for President Zedillo declined to comment at this time. Similarly, the office of the attorney general would not respond to the accusations until it had read Mr. Salinas's book.
However, a former official in the administrations of both presidents said that Mr. Salinas was merely trying to shift the blame for the problems that he left behind.
"He makes the devaluation sound like it was a decision plucked out of the air one day, but it wasn't," the official said. "It was discussed over and over and an agreement was reached to do it in November, before Salinas left office. But then he changed his mind."
As part of a carefully orchestrated series of events intended to publicize the book and explain his official return, Mr. Salinas made excerpts available to The New York Times and three other publications in the United States and Mexico, on the condition that the material would not be published earlier than in Sunday issues.
Mr. Salinas, who was one of the most powerful and popular presidents in Mexican history before his fall from grace, also agreed to an interview in which, for the first time since he left office, he took all questions. He briefly visited Mexico twice last year but refused to discuss sensitive incidents.
In a rustic cabin retreat in a corner of the luxurious residential compound of his in-laws in the south of Mexico City, Mr. Salinas, in a dark suit and multicolored tie, talked for almost two hours. He readily discussed everything from the activities of Raul, from whom he said he has never demanded an accounting of some $90 million hidden in Swiss bank accounts, to playing go-between for President Clinton and Fidel Castro.
In the book, Mr. Salinas says that the reason for the bizarre hunger strike he began in early 1995, just after leaving office, was to stop what he had heard from a high-ranking member of Mr. Zedillo's government was an already prepared order for his arrest.
"They were going to accuse me of covering up the assassination of Mr. Colosio," he said in the interview, referring to Luis Donaldo Colosio, a member of his cabinet whom he had chosen to become the governing party's candidate in the 1994 presidential election. Mr. Colosio was killed at a campaign stop in Tijuana in March 1994 in what remains Mexico's most troubling crime. When Mr. Salinas had to name a replacement presidential candidate a few days later, he selected Mr. Zedillo, who had been Mr. Colosio's campaign manager.
During the remainder of Mr. Salinas's administration, which ended on Nov. 30, 1994, his government was unable to convince the public that it had solved the murder, even though a lone shooter arrested at the scene had been convicted and sentenced. Mr. Zedillo's new attorney general reopened the case. Within a few weeks he had arrested a second suspect and announced that there had been a conspiracy to kill Mr. Colosio that might be connected to Mr. Salinas's own government.
"Mr. Zedillo not only put the blame of the economic crisis on me and my administration, but he also did the inconceivable, he put the blame on my administration for the death of Mr. Colosio," Mr. Salinas said. His voice dropped to a melodramatic whisper. "This is inconceivable because Mr. Zedillo knew personally the relationship between Mr. Colosio and myself and Mr. Zedillo was the main beneficiary of the death of Mr. Colosio."
After he began his hunger strike in the northern city of Monterrey, Mr. Salinas vowed to take only water until the Zedillo government dropped its plans to arrest him. Within a few days, the attorney general issued an unusual statement saying he had no evidence that Mr. Salinas had tried to obstruct the investigation into Mr. Colosio's killing. Shortly afterward Mr. Salinas left Mexico, voluntarily, he insisted, "to contribute to the recovery of stability."
A few years later, investigators pursuing the Colosio case questioned Mr. Salinas in his exile in Dublin. Although no charges were ever brought or proof given that there had been a conspiracy, let alone one attached to Mr. Salinas, many Mexicans still believe he was in some way involved in Mr. Colosio's death.
Mr. Salinas's words now are sure to reopen many old wounds and add a further element of uncertainty to the transition of power to President-elect Vicente Fox in December. The triumph of Mr. Fox has made Mr. Zedillo unpopular with many members of his own party, who may therefore be more open to Mr. Salinas's criticism of the departing president.
Mr. Salinas said the opposition won last July because of the effective campaign by Mr. Fox and Mr. Zedillo's bungling. "The historic defeat of the PRI in the year 2000 is explained not because it was 71 years in power but because of the last six years in power," he said. But Mr. Zedillo's popularity among the Mexican people remains high, while Mr. Salinas's mere presence generally elicits outrage.
Mr. Fox has said he intends to set up a commission to look into the misdeeds of past administrations. Mr. Salinas said in the interview that he welcomed such a move.
The title of his book, which is written in Spanish, means, "Mexico: A Difficult Step Toward Modernity." It will be available in English next year.
The book reads like an extended state of the union address, though Mr. Salinas said he had received help from Gabriel Garcia Marquez, theNobel Prize winner, in loosening up his style.
In a section on the Zapatista uprising in the poor southern state of Chiapas in 1994, Mr. Salinas writes that the most conservative elements in the Mexican government had pressed strongly to annihilate the rebel movement with military force.
"In those first days of January 1994," he writes, "Mexico faced the enormous possibility of returning to the epoch of brothers killing brothers. The danger was real."
He discusses in detail the conviction of his brother Raul on charges of ordering the murder of a governing party politician who was related to the Salinas family by marriage. The investigation under Mr. Zedillo's attorney general was tainted by a $500,000 payoff to one witness and the planting of a corpse to which investigators were led by a self-styled witch.
In the interview, Mr. Salinas insisted that his brother was innocent of those charges. He also discredited the criminal charges that were brought against Raul after more than $90 million was found in his Swiss bank accounts.
Mr. Salinas said he had been unable to ask his brother directly where the money has come from "because he's subject to terrible conditions of incarceration." He said that his brother is under 24-hour observation in prison and that everything he says is taped.
At one point in his book, Mr. Salinas writes about a telephone call he received from President Clinton after Mexico's 1994 presidential election.
"He asked me if I could look around with the Cubans and see what was going on," Mr. Salinas said. At that time thousands of Cubans on makeshift rafts were heading for Florida. Mr. Salinas said he called Fidel Castro, "and what followed were intense communications between President Castro and President Clinton through the mediation of the president of Mexico," which led to a compromise agreement that helped end the crisis.
When asked whether the publication of his book just months before the end of Mr. Zedillo's administration indicated that he planned to return permanently to Mexico, Mr. Salinas replied, "Yes, very much so," then added, "But I've decided to present this book first."
Mr. Salinas conceded that he had very little credibility left among Mexicans and that many might regard the book as a self-serving attempt to rehabilitate his reputation. "It will be a very difficult and long process, but I have great confidence in the wisdom of the Mexican people," he said.
He also is putting great trust in a people who are notoriously unwilling to spend time reading. Newspapers here tend to have limited circulation, and most books except sexy cartoon comic books languish. Mexicans have not seen anything like Mr. Salinas's 1,380 page tome since 1988, when his predecessor, former President Jose Lopez Portillo, published his own two-volume, 1,279-page memoir.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Former President Carlos Salinas de Gortari at his in-laws' home in Mexico City. In an interview there, he discussed his new memoir. (Wesley Bocxe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DEVALUATION (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); CORRUPTION (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); ARREST WARRANTS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); MURDER (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%); 

PERSON: CARLOS SALINAS (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



199 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Saburo Sakai Is Dead at 84; War Pilot Embraced Foes

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Saburo Sakai, a Japanese fighter pilot in World War II who said he shot down 64 Allied planes, including one of each type the United States flew, but who later befriended the Americans he once fought, died in Tokyo on Sept. 22. He was 84.
Mr. Sakai was dining with American military officers at the Atsugi Naval Air Station west of Tokyo and suffered a heart attack as he leaned across the table to shake hands with an American; he died later in a hospital. 
 Mr. Sakai had visited the United States a dozen times, sometimes meeting convivially with American pilots he had confronted in dogfights.
His antagonism came to be directed toward Japan's leaders, particularly Emperor Hirohito.
"Whose name was on the battle orders?" he said in an interview in 1994 with The Daily Telegraph of London. "Over three million died fighting for the emperor, but when the war was over he pretended it was not his responsibility. What kind of man does that?"
Mr. Sakai came from a family descended from Samurai, Japan's ancient warrior class. He was taught to live by the code of Bushido, which he defined in his book, "Samurai!" published in 1957 by E. P. Dutton, as living so as to always be prepared to die.
Flying the legendary Zero fighter plane, which for the first years of the war was considered the best fighter anywhere in terms of maneuverability and range, he was wounded four times. Of the 150 pilots who began in his unit, only 3 survived the war.
His score of 64 planes downed is based on his own reports, and in some of his accounts it was one or two lower. Two Japanese pilots had higher scores, also based on their own counts. (Lieut. Tetsu Iwamoto shot down more than 100 Allied planes.) The Japanese Navy policy was not to credit personal victories officially, but to subordinate the individual to the group.
Still, the records of Japanese aces in World War II outpaced those by Americans, with Richard Bong's 40 the highest. Mr. Sakai suggested in an interview with the Associated Press in 1945 that the reason was a shortage of trained pilots in Japan.
"There were only a few Japanese experts," he said. "The American aces were sent home as instructors, but the top Japanese pilots, because of our shortage of manpower, were left in combat to die."
Yvonne Kinkaid, a historian with the United States Air Force History Support Office, pointed out that the records vary greatly with circumstances. German pilots flying against ill-equipped Russians downed hundreds of aircraft.
Moreover, record-keeping is inherently difficult. "It's hard for us to know who shot us down," she said.
Saburo Sakai was born in Saga, on the island of Kyushu, in 1916 to a family that had turned to farming as changing economic and social conditions led to the passing of the warrior class. The family was poor, but intensely proud of their Samurai heritage, according to Mr. Sakai's book. And as Japanese militarism surged in the 30's, so did the popularity of the old Bushido ideology.
A poor student, Mr. Sakai joined the Imperial Japanese Navy at 16. He endured the brutality of the petty officers and advanced in the service until he at last passed the competitive examination for the navy fliers' school. He was one of 70 to be accepted from 1,500 applicants. Twenty-five of these graduated as pilots, and Mr. Sakai was first in his class.
He was sent as a combat pilot to China, where he was wounded. After recovering, he flew the new A6M1 Zero over Indochina in support of Japanese troops on the ground. He was one of the first to test the Zero in combat against the Chinese Air Force.
On Dec. 8, 1941, the day after the attack on Pearl Harbor, he flew with his group to attack an American air base in the Philippines. He shot down an American P-40, in what was said to be the Japan's first aerial kill there. On Jan. 25, he downed an American B-17, the first Allied bomber to fall in the Pacific.
In August 1942, he was hit in the face by a bullet from a Grumman Avenger torpedo bomber. He was blinded in the right eye and his left side was paralyzed. He was prepared to die.
"I swore I would not go out like a coward, merely diving the plane into the ocean for one bright flash of pain, and then nothing" he said in his book, which was written with Martin Caidin and Fred Saito. "If I must die, at least I could go out as a Samurai. My death would take several of the enemy with me. A ship. I needed a ship."
But somehow he made it back 560 nautical miles to his base in New Guinea. In 1983, he met the tailgunner who hit him, Harry L. Jones of Unionville, Nev. "I thought he was gone," Mr. Jones said. The two enjoyed conversing, the Los Angles Times reported.
Mr. Sakai spent five months in the hospital, instructed other fliers and returned to combat. He believed a bomber he shot down around the time of Japan's surrender may have been the last American plane downed in World War II. Mr. Sakai was one of the few Japanese servicemen to rise from the ranks of enlisted men to officer. He retired with the rank of lieutenant.
He is survived by his wife, Haru; two daughters and a son, and two grandchildren. According to an article by Bucky Sheftall on a Web site called "WW II Ace Stories" (www.elknet.pl/acestory/sakai/sakai.htm), Mr. Sakai became a lay Buddhist acolyte as an act of atonement.
He told Mr. Sheftall that he had not killed any creature, "not even a mosquito," since last stepping from the cockpit of his Zero on a hot August day in 1945.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Saburo Sakai, a wartime Japanese pilot descended from the Samurai, reached out after the war to create ties with Americans. (From "Samurai" by Saburo Sakai E. P. Dutton, 1957 )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (93%); 

STATE: KYUSHU, JAPAN (78%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (93%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (78%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (91%); WORLD WAR II (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); AIR FORCES (78%); HISTORY (78%); NAVIES (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); ARMED FORCES (72%); 

PERSON: EMPEROR OF JAPAN HIROHITO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000



200 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1876 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE JUDICIARY;
Presidential Candidates Differ Sharply on Judges They Would Appoint to Top Courts

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7

 BODY:
Gov. George W. Bush and Vice President Al Gore are presenting voters with perhaps the starkest choice in decades over the kind of people they would select as judges for the federal bench, according to legal analysts and several of the candidates' closest advisers.
The presidential candidates themselves demonstrated as much in Tuesday night's debate as they clashed sharply over the judicial philosophy they would seek in the candidates they would appoint to the Supreme Court. And this election also comes at a time when not only the Supreme Court but also many of the nation's appellate courts are finely balanced ideologically. 
 How the federal bench is shaped in the next four or eight years, scholars say, could have a profound effect on such issues as the extent of federal power in relation to the states, the constitutionality of affirmative action programs, the lengths to which the government may go in aiding parochial school students and how much states may be permitted to limit abortion rights.
"In a sense, this is the single biggest issue before the country in this election in terms of differences between the two candidates," said William E. Leuchtenberg, a history professor at the University of North Carolina. "Here you have two candidates who are in a number of other respects fighting for the center, but in this issue their points of views are sharply defined, with Bush certain to name conservatives to the bench and Gore prepared to choose more liberal judges."
Terry Eastland, a senior Justice Department official in the Reagan administration and a court analyst, said that while changes on the Supreme Court were probable, given the ages and health of some of the justices, they were far from certain, especially over the next four-year presidential term. But Mr. Eastland said there was little doubt that the next president would have a large role in shaping the nation's 13 circuit courts of appeal, the level just below the Supreme Court.
"Whoever is elected will necessarily have the opportunity to alter the direction at the level of the federal courts of appeal and may well also have the opportunity at the Supreme Court level," Mr. Eastland said.
And as the Supreme Court agrees to decide ever fewer cases each year, the appeals courts have taken on greater importance as their rulings often remain the law of the land.
Professor Leuchtenberg said that with respect to judicial appointments, "this is probably the most critical moment in the history of the judiciary since F.D.R.'s second term." President Franklin D. Roosevelt's Supreme Court appointments, which began in his second term, were crucial in validating the notion that the federal government could regulate the national economy, the underpinning of the New Deal.
Traditionally, the issue of court appointments has had little effect in modern presidential elections. Yet each side has a small but highly motivated constituency on this issue, and Governor Bush, of Texas, and Vice President Gore have given unmistakable signals, as they did Tuesday night, to those groups as to how they would pick judicial nominees.
While it is clear, for example, that each candidate would try to name judges who agree with his view on abortion, each insisted in the debate that he would not impose any "litmus test."
Nonetheless, the candidates have left little doubt in the messages they are sending to their supporters. Governor Bush discovered in the primary season that indirect assurances that he would name only reliable conservatives were not sufficient. That was because the influential group of Republicans eagerly hoping to gain control of the White House and the nominating procedure has adopted "No More Souters" as its private slogan, one G.O.P. adviser said.
The reference is to Justice David H. Souter, who has proved to be emblematic to conservatives of disappointment and even ideological betrayal. Justice Souter was nominated by President George Bush in 1990 with assurances to conservatives that despite his meager record as a federal appeals court judge, he would prove a reliable member of the court's conservative coalition. Instead, he has often voted with the court's liberal bloc.
Governor Bush, after meeting with his advisers, decided to offer an explicit and hard-to-mistake signal and said that the justices he most admired were Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas, who are widely viewed as the court's two most resolute conservatives and reliable foes of court rulings extending abortion rights.
"The voters will know I'll put competent judges on the bench, people who will strictly interpret the Constitution and will not use the bench to write social policy," Governor Bush said Tuesday night. "I don't believe in liberal, activist judges; I believe in strict constructionists, and those are the kind of judges I will appoint."
Mr. Gore responded: "In my view, the Constitution ought to be interpreted as a document that grows with the -- with our country and our history. I believe, for example, that there is a right of privacy in the Fourth Amendment. And when the phrase 'strict constructionist' is used, and when the names of Scalia and Thomas are used as benchmarks for who would be appointed, those are code words, and nobody should mistake this, for saying that the governor would appoint people who would overturn Roe v. Wade," the 1973 ruling that first found a constitutional right to abortion.
Mr. Gore said his appointees would "have a philosophy that I think would make it quite likely" that they would uphold the Roe decision.
One factor that could alter all the speculation of how either candidate would select judges as president is the eventual political makeup of the Senate, which screens the nominees through the confirmation process. The kind of people a president nominates for the bench often depends on whether the Senate is controlled by his party or the opposition and by how much.
One Bush adviser said that to deal with the "no more Souters" issue, a new Republican administration would try to choose candidates with established records on the major issues. Lawyers who are advising Governor Bush said in interviews that his most likely models for appointing judges were his father, President Bush, and President Ronald Reagan, both of whom turned the process over to a group of committed conservatives.
It is far less clear that Mr. Gore would closely follow President Clinton's approach in choosing judges. Mr. Clinton generally chose lawyers with moderate philosophical leanings and did not try to provide a counterweight to the previous 12 years in which Republicans sought to turn the courts rightward.
Many liberal advocacy groups are hopeful that Mr. Gore would be bolder than Mr. Clinton in his court choices.
How the Supreme Court might change after the election depends not only on who wins but also on two other even more speculative issues: who, if any, of the current justices might retire and who the new president would choose to replace them.
The speculation as to retirements has focused largely on the three oldest members of the court, Justice John Paul Stevens, who is 80, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, who turned 76 last Sunday, and Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, 70. All three were named to the court by Republican presidents, but they have assumed markedly different ideological roles.
The chief justice is the most reliably conservative of the trio, with Justice Stevens voting often with the liberal bloc and Justice O'Connor a conservative who sometimes votes with the liberal bloc.
David A. Yalof, a political scientist at the University of Connecticut who has studied the Supreme Court appointment process, said that decisions on retirement might depend on who is in the White House.
"For example, if Gore won, it's possible Rehnquist might try to hang on," he said. "Whereas he might be inclined to leave and turn over the process of choosing his successor to Bush."
Professor Yalof noted that "not every president gets the chance to choose a Supreme Court justice, especially in the first four years."
One thing the guess lists of both candidates have in common is the presence of Hispanic candidates, as it is generally believed that both Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore would like to reap the credit for naming the first Hispanic member of the court.
On the Democratic side, the potential Hispanic candidates include Judge Jose A. Cabranes, 59, a federal appeals court judge in Connecticut.
Other possible Hispanic nominees for a Gore White House would be Judge Fortunato P. Benavides, 53, a federal appeals court judge in Austin, Tex., and Judge Sonia Sotomayor, 46, a federal appeals court judge in New York.
Other possible Supreme Court nominees in a Gore administration include two members of the appeals court in Washington, Judge David S. Tatel, 58, and Judge Merrick B. Garland, 47. Another leading candidate would be Walter E. Dellinger, 59, a former solicitor general and constitutional scholar.
Three other federal appeals court judges who might be considered are Diane P. Wood, 50, in Chicago, Martha Craig Daughtrey, 57, in Nashville, and Mary Margaret McKeown, 49, in Seattle.
Lawyers close to Governor Bush say their leading Hispanic candidate would be Emilio M. Garza, 53, an appeals court judge in San Antonio.
But the two most prominently talked-about candidates are judges on the appeals court based in Richmond, Va. Chief Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson III, 56, who sits in Charlottesville, and J. Michael Luttig, 46, who sits in Alexandria, are conservative jurists who have written bold opinions limiting federal power.
Another favorite with the conservative lawyers who would be influential in a Bush administration is Judge Jerry E. Smith, 53, a federal appeals court judge in Houston. Other candidates include Judge Edith H. Jones, 51, who sits on the same court as Judge Smith, and Judge Frank H. Easterbrook, 52, an appeals court judge in Chicago who is a leading judicial exponent of the so-called law and economics school.
On the current court, a shift of one or two votes on some issues could have profound consequences. For example, the court's five most conservative members, Chief Justice Rehnquist and Justices Scalia, O'Connor, Thomas and Anthony M. Kennedy have formed a bloc to curtail federal power over the states.
Another issue that roughly divides 5 to 4 is racial preference in hiring and education, although Justice O'Connor is regarded as a crucial swing vote. A one-vote shift could put the justices more clearly behind affirmative action programs or put the programs out of business.
Abortion rights advocates and Mr. Gore have asserted that the court is one vote away from sharply curtailing the right to an abortion, though that is probably an exaggeration. There are only three solid votes on the court to overturn Roe: Chief Justice Rehnquist and Justices Scalia and Thomas. Justice Kennedy has usually sided with the liberal bloc and Justice O'Connor to form a 6-to-3 majority that is generally in favor of abortion rights. Justice Kennedy sided, however, with the conservative minority in last term's 5-to-4 ruling striking down a Nebraska law outlawing a form of late-term abortion. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); JUDGES (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); HISTORY (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (55%); ABORTION (52%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000

 
