

401 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2123 words

HEADLINE: Some Private Efforts See Success In Job Hunt for Those on Welfare

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER 

 BODY:
In a corner of a bright, spacious industrial kitchen, Linda Williams chops artichoke hearts for garlicky crostini. Nearby, other workers mince ginger for a chicken sate marinade or blend catfish with eggs and flour for tiny fish cakes.
The assemblage of high-end hors d'oeuvres is commonplace in a city with sophisticated culinary tastes, but two facts make the bustling scene noteworthy: the kitchen is in the middle of the South Bronx, and Miss Williams and most of her fellow workers are on welfare. 
 They are members of a new four-month training program intended to give them enough skills and experience to qualify for entry-level jobs in restaurant and hotel kitchens. The class is among dozens of new, innovative efforts in New York City and around the country by private groups -- most but not all of them nonprofit -- to move people from welfare to work.
In many ways, these small-scale programs represent a sharp counterpoint to New York City's mammoth workfare program, in which more than 32,000 welfare recipients sweep streets and answer phones in city agencies in return for public assistance. Proponents say the private approaches offer more promise because they teach people specific skills and provide many routes out of welfare -- instead of just handing recipients a broom or ordering them to file papers, as New York's program typically does.
In a series of articles published in April about workfare, The New York Times found little evidence that the program had provided many participants in New York City with marketable skills or that it had helped significant numbers of people leave welfare for full-time jobs.
Many of the new programs have shown intriguing results, however, often because they identify growing sectors of the local economy and then provide short-term training for jobs in those industries. A nonprofit group, working with a major brokerage house, has moved 52 mothers on welfare into jobs as administrative assistants and service representatives over the last three years. Another nonprofit group, linked with a hotel chain, has helped 24 single adults on welfare get full-time hotel jobs in the last year.
Even proponents of these programs acknowledge that these numbers are small, but they do suggest that combining specific, short-term training with work experience can lead people to full-time jobs. Independent experts who study welfare around the country say small-scale models sometimes cannot be adapted to the large-scale needs of cities and states, which have to move hundreds of thousands of welfare recipients into the labor force under the overhaul of welfare approved by Congress in 1996.
But proponents say some of the new welfare-to-work programs could readily be expanded to help more people.
A much admired small, private program in Chicago called Project Match has been reconfigured for use on a broader scale in a conventional welfare center there as well as in Iowa, Ohio, Tennessee and Maryland.
Since research shows that workfare has not moved many people into full-time jobs in cities and towns around the country over the last 20 years, many experts say local and state governments have incentive to try some newer approaches.
That may apply particularly in places with high unemployment, like New York, where the basic strategy used in most states -- simply sending out welfare recipients to search for jobs -- has had only mixed success.
"There are a lot of different things that can work, and the most important thing that a city or state can do is not to impose a narrow idea of what welfare reform can be," said Julie Strawn, a senior policy analyst at the Center for Law and Social Policy, a Washington-based research and advocacy group.
Even New York City, with by far the nation's largest workfare program, has shown interest in combining work with training. About 12 percent of workfare participants also take classes for a high school equivalency degree or in basic English.
In rare cases, welfare recipients are given workfare credit for participating in an experimental program.
Miss Williams for example, is technically in workfare, even though she spends her days learning how to cook. A cheerful 45-year-old mother of five who has been on public assistance longer than she cares to say, Miss Williams knows first-hand the limitations of conventional workfare. "I was working in the Bronx criminal courts, cleaning up toilets," she said. "It was awful. There was no future in it."
Since March, she has come every weekday to the industrial kitchen on the ground floor of a former hospital that was renovated by a nonprofit group, the Women's Housing and Economic Development Corporation, on East 168th Street in the Morrisania section of the Bronx.
The 10-story building has 132 apartments and vast space to accommodate a health clinic, the kitchen complex and a day-care training center, among other things.
Miss Williams, one of nine students in the culinary program's first class, has learned basic cooking skills, food handling and sanitation as well as job-search techniques in the all-day program. "I'm learning so much here and I love it," she said.
When Miss Williams and her classmates complete the course next month, they should be ready to work as prep-cooks in professional kitchens.
An essential part of their training has been preparing hors d'oeuvres and other foods for the organization's new food service, which has catered events for the Legal Aid Society, the Ms. Foundation and other nonprofit organizations.
"Getting people off of welfare and creating jobs go hand in hand," said Nancy Biberman, president of the Women's Housing and Economic Development Corporation. "You've got to do both."
 
The Programs
Offering Flexibility On the Path to a Job
The new welfare-to-work programs share some important characteristics. Most emphasize flexibility, offering participants an array of paths to work. Many train people for specific jobs by linking with corporations. And many are strikingly entrepreneurial.
The nonprofit sponsors still depend heavily on government financing. They supplement these revenues with money from their own businesses and with fees that corporations sometimes pay while welfare participants are in training.
Besides the catering service, the women's development corporation trains welfare mothers to become licensed home day-care providers. The corporation also teamed up with a for-profit company, America Works, to teach welfare recipients job-readiness skills and interviewing techniques before sending them out to find a job. America Works gets paid only when someone is hired.
"There are a lot of options for people here," Ms. Biberman said. "This is not a one-size-fits-all approach."
The same could be said for another nonprofit group that got its start in building housing for the poor, the Common Ground Community. The group rebuilt the Times Square Hotel, a 652-room S.R.O. on West 43d Street and Eighth Avenue, four years ago, filling it with a combination of the working poor and people who were once homeless. Common Ground offers an array of welfare-to-work programs, many of which involve experience in its own businesses, including an ice cream shop and a catering center.
At any time, about 70 welfare recipients work part time in these enterprises while also taking classes in stress management, conflict resolution and job-search techniques. Within six to nine months, most are ready to look for a private-sector job. About 110 participants have found full-time jobs in the last two years, said Justine Zinkin, the group's director of work force development.
Common Ground also works in New York with the Marriott Hotels Corporation, which offers a six-week job training program for welfare recipients selected by Common Ground. Marriott promises to hire anyone who completes the program for positions in housekeeping and room service, in the hotels' restaurants and as phone operators. In the year since the program began, 26 welfare recipients began the training, 24 completed it and 22 are still working for Marriott.
 
The Participants
Keeping Trainees From Sliding Back
Sobriety is usually a prerequisite to move from welfare to work. Single adults on welfare often have a history of alcohol or drug abuse, so many programs make abstinence a central requirement.
A nonprofit organization called the Doe Fund is among those that structure welfare-to-work programs to discourage participants from sliding back into drinking or drugs. For the last three years, the fund has supervised dozens of single men who sweep the streets and sidewalks of the Upper East Side in bright blue uniforms that highlight the name of their effort: Ready, Willing and Able. The men, 150 in all, are required to live in two residences run by the Doe Fund.
Nearly all the men were once homeless and on welfare. Now they are off welfare, making at least $5.50 an hour keeping streets clean. In return, they take evening classes in job readiness and computers, and work with case managers and job counselors to move toward independent jobs.
"We're not a drug-treatment program, but all of our participants have a history with drugs," said George McDonald, the Doe Fund's president. "We combined the payment of money with a contract that said, 'This is what we're going to do and this is what you're going to do. And one of those things is that you're going to be subject to drug testing, all the time.' "
Participants graduate when they obtain a full-time job and their own apartment, which can take 12 to 18 months. Each graduate gets a $1,000 bonus.
When the effort began nearly a decade ago, only 24 percent of participants obtained permanent jobs. The proportion now is 54 percent, Mr. McDonald said, with graduates getting entry-level jobs in maintenance, security, sales and construction.
To critics who say the program's cost -- $24,000 a year for each participant -- is too high, Mr. McDonald notes that it is similar to keeping someone in a city homeless shelter for a year. "We've kept people who spent their lives in jail and on drugs out of jail and off drugs," he said. "To what extent can you not afford to replicate this?"
James Chisolm, 47, has been sweeping the sidewalks of East 84th Street five days a week since February. He worked for many years as an electrician but had not worked for the last five years because of a drug habit. He says his life has now begun to stabilize.
Mr. Chisolm wears six plastic key rings on a clip attached to his belt, one for each month he has been drug-free. "So far, so good," he said.
 
The Opportunities
Brokerage Jobs After 32 Weeks
For 25 years, the Wildcat Service Corporation has been training welfare recipients for jobs. But few of the nonprofit group's programs have taken off quite like one it devised three years ago, when it persuaded Salomon Smith Barney, the financial services company, to join an experiment.
Wildcat Services trains welfare mothers for 16 weeks in computer software, business English and math and various life skills, like dealing with an unpleasant supervisor. The trainees then go to Salomon Smith Barney for a 16-week internship, after which the company can hire whomever it chooses.
So far, the corporation has hired 52 interns, or about 75 percent of those who completed the program. Many of those not hired were placed at other brokerage houses. Of those hired by Salomon Smith Barney, at an average starting salary of $24,000 a year, more than 90 percent are still there.
Salomon Smith Barney now wants to hire 65 people a year through the program. It works, many executives involved say, because Wildcat selects women who are motivated and have at least a high school equivalency degree, and trains them for specific jobs, like administrative assistants or telephone service representatives.
"I've never had a government agency or a nonprofit come to me and say, 'Tell me what you need and we'll train people specifically for that,' " said Barbara A. Silvan, a senior vice president in charge of human resources at Salomon Smith Barney. The company saves money in several ways, including recruiting costs and retention (a larger proportion of people hired through Wildcat stay at the company than do ordinary hires).
Jamie Dimon, the co-chief executive of Salmon Smith Barney, has been talking up the program to other Wall Street executives. "I've been saying: 'Guys, this works. You get high quality people, high retention. This will save you money,' " Mr. Dimon said.
"If you want to do it because it's good for the country and our city, I think that's sufficient to try things. I also think that having the business logic is excellent."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Linda Williams, 45, reaches for the seasoning to help prepare an appetizer in the South Bronx. The welfare recipient and mother of five is enrolled in a four-month program to give her the skills and experience to qualify for entry-level jobs in restaurant and hotel kitchens. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); LABOR; WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; VOCATIONAL TRAINING EMPLOYMENT (91%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (75%); HOTEL CHAINS (74%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); LEGISLATION (67%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (66%); APPROVALS (66%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN LINDA WILLIAMS (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1998



402 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: Guilty Pleas Are Expected in Office Construction Bid-Rigging

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Five top executives and four companies in the construction industry have agreed to plead guilty to collecting kickbacks and rigging the bidding on billions of dollars in renovation work for many of the city's most powerful corporations during the 1990's, according to investigators and lawyers in the case.
Three of the executives will go to prison in the plea arrangements with the Manhattan District Attorney's office, while the individuals and companies will pay a total of $20 million in fines, according to those involved. The deal, which is expected to be announced tomorrow, is the latest step in a long-running investigation that has already rocked the multibillion-dollar interior construction industry and changed the way business is done in the city. 
 Some of the companies and executives have also agreed to provide information and testify in the ongoing investigation of corruption throughout the industry, from major property owners, designers and real estate brokers to the furniture and lighting suppliers for the city's blue chip companies.
Investigators say that the companies unknowingly bore the inflated expense of the bid-rigging scheme, although some of the contractors maintain that they did not pass on the cost of the bribes.
Unlike cases in the past that were aimed at corrupt construction union officials or mobsters, the investigation by District Attorney Robert M. Morgenthau has ensnared politically connected figures at the top of one of the city's most important industries, which involves the design and construction of office space.
"We decided to look into criminal conduct which affects the economic viability of the city," Mr. Morgenthau said yesterday. "The interior construction industry is only the latest chapter in a book that includes the carpenters' union, the carting industry and co-op managers. New York cannot be competitive if corrupt practitioners are skimming 10 to 15 percent off the top."
Michael G. Cherkasky, the president of Kroll Associates, a corporate investigations firm, said the investigation is having a huge impact on the industry. "It's big players, not two-bit hustlers," he said, "and it indicates that at the top layers of the industry, bribes and payoffs were a way of doing business."
Mr. Cherkasky, a former prosecutor, said that as a result of the investigation, "business is booming" for his firm and others as corporations hire them to monitor construction work.
At the center of the scheme, according to investigators, contractors and defense lawyers, was Robert Bennis, a consultant for Conde Nast Publications, Christie's auction house, the New York Mercantile Exchange and many investment banks and law firms. Mr. Bennis, who is expected to plead guilty, was in a critical position to steer work to favored contractors because his job was to coordinate the leasing, design and construction of office space for his corporate clients, according to investigators, some defense attorneys and real estate executives.
But the tiny club that defense lawyers and investigators say was able to control much of the office construction work in Manhattan also involved some of the biggest contractors in the country, including AJ Contracting Company and Structure Tone Inc. Structure Tone's estimated 1997 revenues exceeded $1.1 billion.
In return for $14 million in kickbacks between 1992 and 1997, the executives at the center of the scheme steered contracts to participating contractors that in some cases were worth more than $100 million each, according to investigators and contractors. The renovation work for Morgan Stanley at two office towers in Times Square came to $250 million.
Rumors about the pending plea agreements have been swirling about the real estate industry for months. The District Attorney's office and lawyers for the executives declined to comment on the case before the agreement is announced.
Lawyers on both sides of the plea negotiations, however, confirmed the following:
Mr. Bennis and his partner, Maurice Reissman, the former chairman of Crossland Savings Bank, are expected to plead guilty to bribery, pay about $3.3 million in fines and restitution and serve up to three years in prison. Their firm, Bennis & Reissman, is also expected to plead guilty to bribery. Lawyers for the two men did not return calls.
Mr. Bennis' lifelong friend and a contractor, Howard Lazar, has struck a similar deal. Mr. Lazar, who pleaded guilty to attempted bribery in the 1970's, drummed up business for the bid-rigging club and used a company called JDL Holdings, also expected to plead guilty, to funnel kickbacks to Mr. Bennis. His brother, Gerald Lazar, is also expected to plead guilty to charges related to the scheme, although he will not receive a prison term. Gerald Lazar's company, the Lehr Construction Corporation, would not be named.
Charles Uribe, the chairman of AJ Contracting, which contributed thousands of dollars in contributions to campaigns of both Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Gov. George E. Pataki, is expected to plead guilty to bribery and pay about $3.3 million in fines. Mr. Uribe, 61, will not have to serve a prison term, primarily because he has been seriously ill for nearly a year. He recently resigned from the board of Brooklyn Union Gas, but he remains a trustee of the New York Public Library.
As part of the plea agreements, AJ Contracting and the other contractors will hire independent monitors approved by the District Attorney to weed out corruption and insure that the bid-rigging does not resume.
Structure Tone is expected to plead guilty to bribe paying and pay a $10 million fine. Last January, Structure Tone and the other companies jointly entered discussions with the District Attorney. But Structure Tone broke ranks and opened its own negotiations with prosecutors, much to the chagrin of its colleagues.
Although Structure Tone is one of the seven largest contractors in the country and benefited from the bid-rigging scheme in New York, lawyers for Patrick J. Donaghy, the chairman of Structure Tone, have asserted that the contractor was also a victim, forced to comply with demands for kickbacks or risk losing work. In a statement yesterday, Structure Tone described the payments as commissions paid to Howard Lazar. The company also said that it had not, in turn, forced subcontractors and suppliers to pay bribes, as other contractors or construction managers had done.
"The company felt it was victimized," the statement said. "It made a corporate decision to settle this matter and plead guilty and get on with its business. Unlike the others who are charged, Structure Tone never took any money from anyone associated with any project."
Martin McLaughlin, a spokesman for Howard Lazar, declined to comment. "Mr. Lazar is not at liberty to comment right now," he said yesterday.
The friendship between Howard Lazar, 55, and Mr. Bennis, 53, dates to kindergarten at Public School 86 in Glen Oaks, Queens. They have worked together in the interior construction industry since the 1960's.
Mr. Bennis, who lives in Oyster Bay, N.Y., came to prominence during the recession in the early 1990's, when many corporations were eliminating their real estate operations.
While Mr. Bennis stayed in the background, Mr. Lazar would tell contractors that if they wanted a job, they would have to kick back five percent or more of their billings for the project, according to investigators and contractors. Designers and furniture suppliers, who had a bigger profit margin, would have to pay more. Structure Tone, AJ Contracting and others were instructed to send a check to Howard Lazar's company, JDL Holdings, for "business services."
Yet, Mr. Bennis was famous for pummeling contractors into reducing their bills at lengthy meetings in front of corporate clients, according to brokers, clients and contractors who knew him. "Bennis would beat up the contractors or subcontractors as if he wasn't on the team," said one contractor who is cooperating with the District Attorney and spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Three years ago, the District Attorney and the State Police began investigating allegations of bid-rigging in the interior construction industry. Even without an indictment or pleas, the three-year investigation caused a number of changes within the industry. Earlier this year, Mr. Bennis and Mr. Reissman closed their company.
Contractors and consultants who had been unable to get interior construction work are now jumping into the business.
"This should blow apart the stranglehold by a few on this multibillion-dollar industry," said Thomas D. Thacher 2d, president of Thacher Associates, a corporate investigations firm. "It should open the door for new contractors and finally empower victims to protect themselves from the systemic fraud."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: STRUCTURE TONE INC; AJ CONTRACTING CO; JDL HOLDINGS; BENNIS & REISSMAN NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%); CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: STRUCTURE TONE INC; AJ CONTRACTING CO; JDL HOLDINGS; BENNIS & REISSMAN

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; BRIBERY; FINES (PENALTIES); PLEA BARGAINING; BRIBERY CONSTRUCTION (93%); GUILTY PLEAS (91%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (91%); BRIBERY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (88%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); MISCONDUCT (76%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); INVESTMENT BANKING (67%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V; BENNIS, ROBERT; REISSMAN, MAURICE; BENNIS, ROBERT; URIBE, CHARLES; LAZAR, GERALD; LAZAR, HOWARD MICHAEL G CHERKASKY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1998



403 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
As Unemployment Worsens, Hong Kong Stocks Fall 5.7%

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, June 15

 BODY:
Now that Hong Kong has confirmed its economy is in reverse, the bad news is coming thick and fast. Unemployment here reached 4.2 percent from March through May, the highest rate in 15 years. And the stock market plunged 5.7 percent today to its lowest closing level since Jan. 30, 1995.
As they have been for three weeks, Hong Kong stocks were battered by the falling Japanese yen. Analysts and others said the unemployment figures, announced today by the government, had also eroded the confidence of investors, since Hong Kong offers little protection to people who lose their jobs. "We're used to 1 percent or 2 percent unemployment," said Ian K. Perkin, chief economist of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce. "People are starting to get very angry and uncertain about the future." 
 The plunge here in the benchmark Hang Seng stock index led a steep Asian share decline. In Thailand, stocks tumbled 6 percent; in South Korea, 4.8 percent; in the Philippines, 4.5 percent; in Malaysia, 4.3 percent; in Singapore, 3.5 percent; in Japan, 1.3 percent, and in Indonesia, half of 1 percent. Only Taiwan, which rose 2.3 percent, was spared.
Analysts said that the worst might be yet to come in Hong Kong's market. Japan and the United States have shown no signs of intervening to arrest the fall of the yen. And Hong Kong's property market, which drives blue-chip stock gauges, is undergoing a huge drop in prices.
Today, the Hang Seng dropped 452.94 points, to 7,462.50. Some analysts said it could slide to 6,900, its lowest point in 1995. The Heng Seng index rose just under 2 percent early Tuesday. Other Asian markets were little changed; Australian and New Zealand shares were lower.
In a report on the Hong Kong economy, Salomon Smith Barney said the index could fall as low as 5,500.
"We can shift the deck chairs, but we're not going to improve the overall weight of the ship," said Jan Lee, chief economist here at Hongkong and Shanghai Bank. "We've got to go through this pain before we can begin to recover."
Mr. Lee predicted that unemployment would rise to 5.5 percent by the end of 1998. And he said that the overall economy, which shrank at a 2 percent annual rate in the first quarter, would probably finish 1998 with a 1 percent decline -- the first full year of recession since Hong Kong began tracking its growth in 1961.
Milestones like these are fanning political tensions in this normally apolitical territory. Several recently elected legislators recently formed a coalition to press the government to ease the economic pain. Coalition members, from pro-democracy to pro-Beijing representatives, have harshly criticized what they call officials' aloofness and insensitivity to the plight of ordinary people.
"Our goal is to put some money back into people's pockets," said Emily Lau, an outspoken pro-democracy leader who was recently elected to the Legislative Council. "Hong Kong is sitting on this huge mountain of reserves, yet the government just tells people they have to suffer."
Allen Lee, the head of the Liberal Party, who is leading the coalition, said the government should inject some cash into the economy by cutting taxes and accelerating several large public works projects. "We all feel that Hong Kong is facing a crisis, but it seems that the government is unmoved," he said.
Officials said they had already moved up five such job projects, worth $168 million. The Government also announced a package of more modest measures, such as expanding the civil service and improving training programs.
Still, Joseph W. P. Wong, Hong Kong's Education and Manpower Secretary, acknowledged that unemployment would probably rise further before the economic crisis abated. He said retail, restaurant and transportation industries had been hardest hit by the recent surge in unemployment.
Several analysts noted that because Hong Kong's currency was linked to the United States dollar at a fixed exchange rate, the territory had little room for maneuver in responding to external economic pressures like the declining yen. The government has defended the currency, the Hong Kong dollar, by raising interest rates. "The politicians can suggest temporary measures, which address the symptoms of the problem, but not the problem itself," Mr. Lee of HSBC said.
The slumping stock market, rising unemployment and soaring interest rates are bad enough. But for this city of inveterate gamblers, there was no more telling sign of economic distress than the Hong Kong Jockey Club's announcement on Sunday that the amount of money bet on horse racing fell for the first time since it started keeping records in 1970.
"When you compare us to the stock market or the property market, we're not doing that badly," said Wilson Cheng, a spokesman for the Jockey Club, noting that $11.9 billion had been bet at the races in the 1998 season, a decline of eight-tenths of a percent from the previous season.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Rising Rates, Falling Stocks"
The falling yen has forced interest rates sharply higher in Hong Kong, a key reason for the stock market's latest plunge. Graph tracks the Hang Seng indes and the 1-month interbank rate, since October 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NQE (AMEX) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (97%); JAPAN (94%); PHILIPPINES (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (76%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (52%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (76%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); HONG KONG GENERAL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HONG KONG GENERAL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (97%); JAPAN (94%); PHILIPPINES (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (76%); EAST CHINA (52%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (76%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); STATISTICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); JAPANESE YEN (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); POLITICS (62%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



404 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 7; Column 1; Science Desk; Health Page

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Drinking Itself Dry, Study Finds

BYLINE: By CAROL KAESUK YOON

 BODY:
AMERICANS may be literally drinking themselves into a state of dehydration, a new survey reports.
While Americans drink an average of eight cups of water and other hydrating beverages each day, they counter the positive effects by drinking five servings of caffeinated or alcoholic beverages, which dehydrate the body, according to a survey of the drinking habits of 3,000 people. 
 The result, said Dr. Barbara Levine, director of the Nutrition Information Center at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, is a dehydrated nation. The problem is that the alcohol and caffeine in these beverages are diuretics, substances that cause a person to urinate more, resulting in a net loss of water.
New Yorkers, the survey reports, are right on the national averages, drinking an average of 8.5 cups of hydrating beverages -- which include milk, juice and caffeine-free carbonated drinks and water -- and 4.5 cups of caffeinated or alcoholic beverages a day. For water alone, New Yorkers consume 5 cups a day; the national average is 4.6.
The survey, sponsored by the International Bottled Water Association and the Nutrition Information Center, interviewed 200 adults in each of 15 cities. Unpublished survey results were released last month.
Lack of knowledge is not the problem. Most people said they were aware that experts recommend drinking eight glasses of water a day and that some beverages, like coffee, were dehydrating. The reasons for not keeping well hydrated varied from not having enough time to not liking the taste of water.
"If there's something with flavor to it, I'll drink it instead," said Vic Rodriguez, an accountant from Long Island, whose preferred drinks are Coca-Cola and iced tea. "I'm not going to stop to think, 'Let me have a glass of water because it's going to be more hydrating.' I'll just have the soda."
Not drinking enough water can have costs. People who drank three or fewer glasses a day were more likely to suffer symptoms like grogginess upon waking and dry skin, experts said. And the benefits of adequate hydration are many including regular digestion and the prevention of headaches.
Monona Yin, program officer at a private foundation in Manhattan and one of the better hydrated people in the city, said she has one cup of coffee in the morning but then drinks from a pitcher of water all day. "It keeps me from eating something horrible," she said, noting water's power as an appetite suppressant. It's also very economical, she added. "I drink the free things in the office, coffee and water."
Dr. Levine said people should drink the equivalent of eight glasses of water a day. If they drink coffee or other dehydrating beverages they should offset the loss by drinking an additional glass of water. People should not wait until they are thirsty to drink, she said, because by then the body is dehydrated, in a deficit of perhaps two cups of fluids.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Different Water Shortage"
Americans drink an average of 4.6 eight-ounce glasses of water each day. But in some cities, including New York, heavy use of alcohol and caffeine offsets the benefits of relatively high water consumption. Shown is the average daily water consumption in some cities.
 
EIGHT-OUNCE SERVINGS OF WATER EACH DAY
 
San Diego -- 5.1
New York -- 5.0
Denver -- 4.9
San Antonio -- 4.9
San Francisco -- 4.6
Dallas -- 4.4
Charlotte, N.C. -- 4.4
St. Louis -- 3.1
 
(Source: Yankelovich survey of 3,003 Americans)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (53%); INTERNATIONAL BOTTLED WATER ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BOTTLED WATER ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (90%); CAFFEINE & HEALTH (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); BOTTLED WATER (78%); SOFT DRINKS (78%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (73%); DIETING (60%); FOUNDATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BARBARA LEVINE (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



405 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 2155 words

HEADLINE: Offering a Cheaper Ride to Orbit From the Middle of the Ocean

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
EVER since 1926, when Dr. Robert H. Goddard, working in Auburn, Mass., fired the world's first successful liquid-fueled rocket, the field has developed along the same general lines. Increasingly big and powerful vehicles have blasted off from dry land.
In recent years, these rockets have carried into space mainly communication satellites, which beam telephone calls, beeper messages, computer data and television and radio programs around the world. Such work is booming. In the next decade, analysts say, more than 1,000 new communication satellites are scheduled to be sent into orbit. 
 Now, a radical entry in the launching game is getting ready to blast off after an investment of more than $500 million by companies in Russia, Ukraine, Norway and the United States. The team is joining inexpensive Russian and Ukrainian rocket gear with American marketing and technical savvy. The Boeing Company, the American aerospace giant, owns 40 percent of the joint venture.
In October, the team's rocket is to rise from a floating platform in the Pacific and carry a communication satellite into orbit -- a space-age first. The aim is big profits, and the infrastructure is similarly big.
The 660-foot control ship carries up to 240 people. The launching platform is nearly as big as two football fields and moves itself around at speeds of up to 12 knots. And the rocket stands 20 stories tall.
Known as Sea Launch, the venture, if successful, will be a technical feat that significantly increases the payload weight that a rocket can carry by simply starting the trek in the right place.
By blasting off at the Equator rather than the higher latitudes where most spaceports are found, the rocket will get the maximum possible boost from the earth's rotation and follow the shortest possible route to an orbit 22,300 miles overhead. There, communication satellites turn in step with the earth, making them appear to hang motionless and easing linkups with ground antennas.
"We want to provide a low-cost alternative for launching satellites," Jim Albaugh, the president of Boeing Space Transportation, the American parent of Sea Launch, said in an interview. "We get up to 30 percent more payload than launches from North America or Russia."
Last Friday, the team's control ship (made in Scotland by the Norwegian partner) left St. Petersburg, Russia (where a Ukrainian rocket had been loaded and Russian rocket-handling gear installed), and headed for Long Beach, Calif., site of the venture's home port (adapted from an old Navy base). The floating launch platform (made in Norway from an oil rig) is being outfitted in Vyborg, Russia, and is to sail for Long Beach this summer for the launching debut.
Space experts say the complicated venture has some risk. But they add that the team and equipment are so strong that they will likely open a major new pathway into the heavens.
"It's very smart," said Marco Caceres, a space analyst at the Teal Group, aerospace consultants based in Fairfax, Va.
"Most rockets are launched out of Government facilities, and you have to wait your turn," at times for months or years, he said. "Here, they're taking a vehicle that's relatively modern, getting it at a good price, taking it and launching it for a venture they own" at times they, rather than an outsider, decide.
"And they're getting in at the start of the market boom," Mr. Caceres added. "The timing is perfect. They'll do very well."
Some arms-control advocates, as well as the Clinton Administration, which encouraged the team's birth, like Sea Launch because it employs Russian and Ukrainian rocket makers who otherwise might pitch their wares and expertise to rogue states and terrorists.
"It's rare that you find this kind of sweet technical fix to a lot of policy problems," said John E. Pike, head of space policy at the Federation of American Scientists, a private group in Washington.
The team's Ukrainian rocket is known as the Zenit. Its maker, the Yuzhnoye design bureau and Yuzhmash production plant, once made for Moscow the SS-18, which the Pentagon dubbed "Satan." The dreaded black giant was the Soviet Union's deadliest weapon, able to deliver 10 or more nuclear warheads with great precision halfway around the globe.
Dr. John M. Logsdon, director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University, said Sea Launch was bittersweet for national security because it diverted rather than eliminated the threat. "It keeps production lines open in the SS-18 plant," he noted, "but gives that cadre of people something to do other than make SS-18's."
Whatever its merits for arms control, the private venture is poised to challenge world rocketry. Each year this business sends aloft scores of monsters belching fire and smoke -- the Proton from Russia, the Long March from China, the H-2 from Japan, the Ariane from French Guiana for the European Space Agency and the Delta and Atlas from the United States.
Despite its newcomer status, the Zenit rocket of Sea Launch has already won top customers. Hughes Space and Communications, an industry leader, has signed up for 13 launchings, including the first. That flight is to loft a five-ton craft meant to knit Brazil, Mexico and the United States together electronically.
Donald L. Cromer, the chairman of the Hughes unit, which is based in California, said the undisclosed Sea Launch price was "very competitive." He added that costs were further cut because Hughes would be able to ship the spacecraft to the nearby home port of Sea Launch rather than across the country to Cape Canaveral in Florida or overseas to a foreign spaceport.
Sea Launch has sold five additional Zenit launchings to Loral Space & Communications, headed by Bernard L. Schwartz, a top individual contributor to the Democratic National Committee.
Recently, Loral and Hughes have been caught in a political firestorm over whether they acted improperly in helping the Chinese fix problems in their inexpensive Long March rockets, and whether their donations to the President and his party prompted the Clinton Administration to look the other way.
With Sea Launch, the two companies are looking for a cheaper way to get their satellites into orbit.
Mr. Albaugh, the Boeing official who oversees the American side of Sea Launch, said many other customers would doubtless join Loral and Hughes as the Zenit proved itself.
"We've got interest from a lot of satellite manufacturers," he said in the interview. "At the prices we can offer, I think we'll see a big increase in orders after the first few years."
The boost that the rocket gets at the Equator occurs because of the earth's eastward rotation. At the North Pole, this speed is zero. But it increases in a southward direction until, at the Equator, the surface of the Earth is moving eastward at more than 1,000 miles per hour.
To take advantage of this rotational kick, most rockets carrying communication payloads are fired due east, if safety considerations allow such a flight path.
Over time, the world's spaceports have slowly pushed southward to take an increasingly large share of this free ride. The main Russian base, from which the first satellite, Sputnik, flew aloft in 1957, is located at 45.6 degrees northern latitude. Cape Canaveral in Florida is 28.5 degrees. And the European Ariane site, a mere 5.2 degrees above the Equator, was carved out of the jungles of French Guiana on South America's northeast coast.
But even at the Equator, the boost of 1,000 miles per hour is a relatively modest aid because the velocity a rocket needs to get into orbit is 17,500 miles per hour.
For Sea Launch, an even bigger advantage comes because its rockets will fly the shortest possible route to the high equatorial orbit. In contrast, rockets flying out of, say, Cape Canaveral at 28.5 degrees north, must burn fuel (the added weight of which reduces payload capacity) to nudge themselves down to the high orbit aligned with the Equator at 0 degrees latitude.
Despite these enticements, the real driver behind the founding of Sea Launch was the opportunity for new business that arose after the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union. By 1993, Boeing was deep in discussions with the Energia Company, a star of the Russian rocket industry. The two judged that their skills were complementary.
Amy L. Buhrig, head of Sea Launch marketing, said the two companies "worked closely with the Department of Commerce looking for ways to work together."
Ideas came and went. The one that stuck was Sea Launch. Its premise was that demand for satellite launchings would soon outstrip the supply. Its trump card was to be the Zenit, a military rocket that Moscow had used for launching a wide variety of spy satellites.
In April 1995, the joint venture was formed in the Cayman Islands. Boeing owns 40 percent, RSC-Energia of Moscow 25 percent, Kvaerner Maritime a.s. of Oslo 20 percent, and KB Yuzhnoye and PO Yuzhmash of Dnepropetrovsk, the Ukraine, 15 percent. Thought the Zenit is considered Ukrainian, all its engines, a rocket's key component, are made in Russia.
The venture has had some setbacks, none apparently serious. On May 20, 1997, a Zenit flying out of Moscow's main spaceport failed 44 seconds after liftoff. Boeing swept in afterward to make sure the rocket design was sound.
Ms. Buhrig, the Sea Launch marketing head, said the investigating team included Loral, the satellite maker; Rocketdyne, an arm of Boeing specializing in engines; and the Defense Technology Security Administration, which helps guard military secrets as American defense contractors increasingly work with other countries.
"My understanding is that we were observers and concurred with the findings of the Russian-Ukrainian investigation," Ms. Buhrig said.
The topic is politically sensitive because of Washington's continuing investigations into whether the aid Loral and Hughes gave Chinese rocket makers helped China improve missiles laden with nuclear warheads, thus endangering American security.
But in this case, private experts say, there was probably little chance of such aid because Russian and Ukrainian rockets in some respects are superior to American ones, especially their engines. In fact, the Air Force recently selected a new rocket for launching satellites whose engine is based on a Russian design.
"We do not have anything approaching Russian engine technology," said Charles P. Vick, an expert on the Russian space program at the Federation of American Scientists.
Governmental backing for Sea Launch is so strong that it recently won loan guarantees from the World Bank after questions were resolved about whether Sea Launch violated the bank's prohibitions on aiding military activities. The bank will back guarantees of $100 million each for Russia and the Ukraine, giving investors some protection from economic, civil or military turmoil.
Though planning to work on the high seas where no nation holds sway, the Sea Launch venture, by virtue of Boeing's participation, still falls under Washington's watchful eye. The Transportation Department says it must license any rocket launching, and the Commerce Department says any American satellite maker that wants to use the Zenit must get an export license.
If all goes as planned, Sea Launch will fire into space six Zenits a year, though Mr. Albaugh of Boeing said the pace could be quickened to eight. After the debut flight, rockets are to be shipped in pieces from the Ukraine to Long Beach, loaded aboard the command and assembly ship and integrated with the satellite payload. The whole assembly will then be transferred to the floating platform for blastoff.
The platform itself is unanchored, instead using propellers to maintain position in choppy seas.
"We don't think there are any show stoppers," Mr. Albaugh said. "It's a fascinating program and I'm amazed at the progress."
Ms. Buhrig of Sea Launch said company studies found that one Zenit might fail catastrophically in every 11 flights. "This is very good for the beginning of a new product line," she said.
At the start, the company plans to move Zenits from the ship to the launching platform only at the home port, which means that both would have to jog back and forth from the Pacific launching site.
But later, officials said, the launching platform might be left in place at sea. This could save time, because the command and assembly ship can move faster than the platform.
Ms. Buhrig said such a system would allow between 12 and 15 launchings a year, which would rival the rate of commercial blastoffs at the world's busiest spaceports.
Mr. Caceres of the Teal Group said the venture would likely prove to be very successful and that talk of low pricing would evaporate as Zenit rockets started flying out of Pacific waters with regularity.
"They'd be foolish to give a discount," he said, "because there's a huge demand."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Sea Launch facilities come in two parts. The launch platform 'Odyssey,"is a modified North Sea oil-drilling platform that can cruise at 12 knots. It is shown here undergoing modification at the Kvaerner shipyard in Vyborg, Russia. A floating mission control and rocket assembly plant, the "Sea Launch Commander" was constructed at the Kvaerner shipyard in Glasgow. After being equipted and loaded with its first rocket in St. Petersburg, the ship is scheduled to arrive in Long Beach Calif., this summer. (Photographs courtesy of The Boeing Company)(pg. F1)
 
Drawing: A Satellite that is not launched from Earth's Equator ends up in orbit inclined to the Equator. The Sea Launch consortium will be able to send satellites directly and economically into an equatorial orbit. (Ed Lam)(pg. F1)
 
Diagram: "Launching a Rocket at Sea"
In October, a rocket is to rise from a floating platform in the Pacific Ocean and carry a communication satellite into orbit. The venture, called Sea Launch, is a cooperative effort by companies from Russia, the Ukraine, Norway and the United States.
 
The assembly and command ship serves as a floating rocket assembly factory and as the mission control facility. Rocket components are moved onboard for assembly. The first stage is joined with the second and third, and with the encapsulated
payload.
 
The rocket is moved to the launching platform by an onboard crane system and stored in a hangar. Both vessels set sail for a predetermined site in the Pacific.
 
The rocket is rolled out and erected into launching position. Crew members depart the platform through a gangway mounted between the two vessels. The assembly and command ship moves 3 miles away and the control center starts launching.
 
The rocket is launched. After the first and second stages have performed their roles, the upper stage containing the payload -a commercial satellite- 2/3 guides the spacecraft to the desired orbital position.
 
(Source: Sea Launch Co., Boeing Commercial Space Company)(pg. F6)
 
Map: "Blastoff From the Equator"
Shown are some of the world's main launching sites for communication satellites. Now, a private venture hopes to gain an advantage in the highly competitive market by launching its satellites from a floating platform at the Equator, getting an added kick from the Earth's rotation and saving fuel by traveling a more direct route to the point 22,300 miles above the Earth, where satellites orbit in synch with the planet. (pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (83%); BAB (BRU) (83%); BA (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SCOTLAND (69%); 

STATE: EQUATOR (94%); EARTH (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); NORTH SEA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (52%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UKRAINE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SCOTLAND (69%); EQUATOR (94%); EARTH (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); NORTH SEA (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); JOINT VENTURES (68%); NAVIES (66%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (58%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



406 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES;
Hooked on Collectibles and the Bottom Line

BYLINE: By JOYCE WADLER 

 BODY:
FOLKS attending the Sotheby's collectors' auction on Saturday, encountering a poem written by 11-year-old Elvis Presley to a grammar-school mate (it sold for $5,500) or Ella Fitzgerald's "Personal and Professional Card Collection" (including Diners Club and Screen Actors Guild, it brought $600) may have wondered if there is anything in America that is not for sale.
Yes -- at least at this auction house. 
 The car in which President John F. Kennedy was assassinated, which was offered some years ago, was refused by Dana Hawkes, vice president for collectibles, as were items from the Sharon Tate murder scene and Nazi memorabilia.
Ms. Hawkes is also not disappointed that a tape recording of Presley's last concert, for which there were copyright concerns, was not offered for sale by Sotheby's.
"It was just a very sad, very sad tape," says Ms. Hawkes, who is 42 and is clearly fond of some of the people whose possessions she is selling. "He was obviously high as a kite, he couldn't remember the words to the songs. It was just a very sad representation of the King that everybody remembers."
But do you have the Action comic in which Superman made his first appearance, or a signed script from the last "Seinfeld" episode or something that really used to belong to Sinatra? The enthusiastic Ms. Hawkes, uncharacteristic in her field because she tries not to be too pushy in the acquisition of stuff, would like to speak with you.
Collectibles, which at Sotheby's include dolls, toys and memorabilia, are Ms. Hawkes's field, and she is particularly well versed in Hollywood and rock 'n' roll. She can tell you if your John Lennon autograph is fake (Yoko Ono helps her) or what to do with your Princess of Wales dolls from the Franklin Mint (take them elsewhere). But Ms. Hawkes says this courteously, and tells callers where they might sell their dolls. Ms. Hawkes, after all, does not simply cater to the pop-objet obsessed; she is one of them. Driving to the Midwest with her husband and two young sons last Christmas, she had the family dine on Burger King all the way to get the Nightmare Before Christmas wristwatches they were giving away.
"The farther away we got from New York City, the more they let us buy Nightmare Before Christmas watches without buying the burgers," says Ms. Hawkes, whose work forces her to be a student of society. "We bought 50. Now, six months later, they're each worth $25. We were really sick of burgers. O.K., so I do collect."
 WHAT makes a successful purveyor of other people's possessions?
In the case of Ms. Hawkes, a cheerful yet respectful obsession. Raised in Boston, Ms. Hawkes majored in art history at Swarthmore. She went to work for Sotheby's in 1984, when collectibles brought in $800,000 annually to the New York house. Now, Ms. Hawkes says, the field brings in $6 million to $8 million a year. And while she credits the increase to nostalgic baby boomers who have reached the age of disposable income, others say Ms. Hawkes has also helped nurture the market.
Ms. Hawkes convinced Sotheby's to go into the vintage comic books field, which took in $900,000 in the most recent sale. (She also married Jerry Weist, the antique-comic-book appraiser and artist who brought the idea to her.)
She has been involved in the Andy Warhol estate, too.
"Every department in the company was involved in that except Judaica," Ms. Hawkes says modestly. "He was a Catholic."
How do auctioneers get their hands on the goods?
"Everybody always says there are the three D's in the auction trade," Ms. Hawkes says. "Death, divorce, debt."
The one item Ms. Hawkes would have liked to keep?
"It was a Clark Gable script for 'Gone With the Wind,' bound in leather, with Clark Gable's name in gold letters on the cover, " Ms. Hawkes says. "It came to us from a woman who had been a secretary at the studio, who had had a relationship with Gable. Normally an unannotated script with no date would not be worth that much; because it was Gable we thought it might bring $3,000 to $4,000, but because of the romantic connection a lot of people were interested. It went for $77,000 to a man from the Midwest who wanted to give it to his wife."
How long ago was this?
Ms. Hawkes searches for a signpost in time.
"In '88," she says. "We had the witch hat from 'The Wizard of Oz' and the white piano from 'Casablanca' in the same sale. I asked the woman why she was selling and she said she had reached an age when she was disposing of some things. Often, it's economics. Or people feel they have to let go and they'd rather do it when they are of mind and can handle their affairs."
Still, it must be a sad thing to sell a gift from a love affair.
"I don't think so," Ms. Hawkes says. "From what I see, it's the period of indecisiveness that's the difficult period. By the time they've decided to sell, what I hear from people over and over is, 'It's time.' Time to divest of things. Like elderly people who lose a spouse and say, 'It's time.' Six months later, they're dead."
The secretary who loved Clark Gable?
"I don't know," Ms. Hawkes said. "She lived in Los Angeles. And as I said, she was quite old."

CORRECTION-DATE: July 4, 1998, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
A Public Lives profile on June 16 about Dana Hawkes, vice president for collectibles at Sotheby's, misidentified the college from which she graduated. It is Skidmore, not Swarthmore.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dana Hawkes, a Sotheby's vice president, with rock 'n' roll collectibles. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (64%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (64%); 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S SOTHEBY'S (92%); DINERS CLUB INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (58%); SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOTHEBY'S SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (58%); SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (64%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: COLLECTORS AND COLLECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; AUCTIONS ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); FAST FOOD (77%); JAZZ & BLUES (77%); POP & ROCK (74%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (71%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (71%); MURDER (69%); 

PERSON: WADLER, JOYCE; HAWKES, DANA JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1998



407 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 2; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 2167 words

HEADLINE: Critic's Notebook;
The Vanishing Haute Cuisine

BYLINE: By Ruth Reichl 

 BODY:
"IN my opinion, Chinese chefs are much more skilled than French chefs," Ching Yun Pu said. And then he added, "Although we do not brag the way French chefs do."
It was 1981, and Mr. Pu, a master chef trained in pre-revolutionary China, was working in a restaurant in San Francisco's Chinatown. I was working at a magazine there, trying to find the best Chinese restaurants in the state. I couldn't do it on my own, so I enlisted the help of Chinese friends (among them, Wayne Wang, then an unknown filmmaker). They read the ads in Chinese-language newspapers, talked to their parents and consulted employment agencies that placed cooks. And then we started eating; before we were done we had found 50 astonishingly good restaurants cooking regional Chinese food and catering almost exclusively to a Chinese clientele. 
 I had been to China the year before, but I gained a new respect for Chinese food in America. As I ate Sichuan minced squab soup, Chiu Chow crab roll and Hakka stuffed bean curd, I learned about the enormous impact politics and immigration laws have had on the Chinese restaurants of America. It was not an accident that regional Chinese cooking became a craze during the late 1960's; the Hart-Celler Act of 1965 allowed many more Chinese people into the country and brought new chefs to our shores.
America got Chiu Chow food as a result of turmoil in Southeast Asia. The first wave of Hong Kong cooking was due to the Cultural Revolution, which drove many people out of South China to Hong Kong and from there to the United States. The second wave came courtesy of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, which increased the Hong Kong immigration quota. Tasting the flavors these new immigrants brought with them was exciting, and I became convinced that America was about to experience an explosion of Chinese cooking. I was positive that before long the country would have as many notable Chinese restaurants as French ones.
Almost 20 years later, I have to admit that I was wrong. It is still possible to find a good Chinese meal in the United States. As more Chinese people have come into the country, the number and quality of small, regional restaurants have certainly increased. If you want the Chinese equivalent of French bistro cooking, you can easily find it.
But China, like France, also has a venerable tradition of haute cuisine. While expensive French restaurants in New York can hold their own against many places in Paris, if you want to move beyond steamed dumplings and stir-fries to experience the complexity of Chinese banquet cuisine, the possibilities grow dimmer each year. Why? Chinese food experts in this country contemplate this culinary disappointment with deep sadness. The reasons, they say, range from the apathy and lack of sophistication of American diners to a shortage of great Chinese chefs.
Twenty years ago, San Francisco had the benefit of master chefs like Mr. Pu. New York's Chinese restaurants of that period also showed the influence of T. T. Wang, who opened the original Shun Lee restaurants; Uncle Lou, a renowned banquet chef, and the chefs from mainland China who opened Sichuan Pavilion. They had all been classically trained, a process that can take years.
"Our training was very hard," said Mr. Pu, who served a formal apprenticeship in Beijing in the 1940's with one of China's most powerful families. "We were sometimes beaten when we made mistakes. And we had to prepare each dish according to the classic method, no matter what the conditions. In the winter we had to peel shrimps, washing them with cold water because warm would have changed their taste. No matter that our hands were burning from cuts and stinging from the cold."
The revolution, of course, put an end to all that. "Who wanted to be a chef in China from 1949 to 1985?" said Michael Tong, the owner of Shun Lee Palace and Shun Lee West, both in Manhattan.
But today's China is a different place. Tourism is booming, along with national wealth. Hotels are being built. Restaurants are opening. The market, Mr. Tong says, is getting bigger, and there are not enough chefs. "Over the years we must have had 500 chefs coming and going at Shun Lee Palace," he said, "and only 5 percent were trained in China."
Mr. Tong also talks of the old system of apprenticeship, in which young people who worked for famous chefs lived behind the kitchen and did everything from making their beds to heating their wine. But prosperity has changed that, as well. "China has never thought of being a chef as a high profession, and there is no tradition of celebrity chefs," Mr. Tong said. "Young people aren't being trained as they used to."
The result is intense global competition for top Chinese chefs. And rising salaries.
A good chef in Hong Kong, says Philip Chiang, the owner of the Mandarin Restaurant in Beverly Hills, Calif., can make more than $100,000 a year. After taxes. If a restaurant in the United States wants a chef of that caliber, it has to match those dollars. Few chefs in the United States, no matter what their style of cuisine, are paid that much money. "Chinese chefs are better paid than French ones," Mr. Chiang said.
The Chinese, though, with their growing tourist economy and new freedom to enjoy luxuries in public, are increasingly willing to pay whatever it takes to hire great chefs.
MOST Chinese experts are too tactful to say so, but money is only one part of the equation.
"Why should Chinese cooks come here?" asked Bruce Cost, the restaurateur and author of several Chinese cookbooks. Mr. Cost, who is not Chinese, was the chef and an owner of Monsoon in San Francisco. He is now an owner of Big Bowl in Chicago. "Anybody who can cook can make a good living in Asia," he said. "And if you're a Chinese chef, you want to feed Chinese people."
Nina Simonds, a cookbook author and another non-Chinese expert in Asian cooking, agrees. "The best Chinese chefs," she said, "don't cater to Westerners."
It is true that many Chinese are convinced that Americans do not value Chinese food. Mr. Tong is among them. "Americans appreciate French culture more than Chinese culture," he said. "And Americans have much more knowledge of French food." He noted, rather heatedly, that he sometimes goes to Restaurant Daniel in Manhattan and watches incredulously as people devour squabs. "They even eat them rare!" he added. "I used to put squab on the menu; maybe I would sell two or three. And if I put eel, duck webs or sliced kidneys on the menu, nobody orders that."
Mr. Cost said: "There is a difference in what people like to eat. The Chinese eat bones and innards. Americans don't."
Or as Ms. Simonds said, "In this country the audience is not there to appreciate really great Chinese food."
Mr. Tong blames himself. "In the 70's we invented all these dishes: orange beef and crispy sea bass. There's no such thing in classic Chinese cooking. When Americans eat Chinese food now, they want crispness. They want sweetness. They want spicy. If I try to give them red-cooked dishes, they don't understand or want it."
Which is a shame. Red-cooking is a classic Chinese technique that involves searing meat or fish in oil and then slowly stewing it in a mixture of soy, sherry, rock sugar and spices like star anise. The result is a glistening sauce with a complex flavor that is simultaneously salty, sweet and rich.
Not long ago, I was invited to an elaborate banquet at Shun Lee West, given by a friend eager to prove that Chinese food can be as impressive as anything produced by the French. It was testimony to the fact that when Shun Lee wants to pull out all the stops, the kitchen is equal to the task.
The meal began with cold hors d'oeuvres surrounding an edible landscape, in which pandas carved out of vegetables cavorted around a gelatin lake. Eight cold plates were set around it: crisp slices of pig's ear in hot oil crunched pleasantly when you ate them. Dried bean curd was cut into noodles and tossed with fava beans. Pork kidneys had been soaked in many changes of water until they were pure texture, little clouds under a hailstorm of Sichuan peppercorns. Fish was richly smoked. Jellied pate rivaled anything on the Champs-Elysees. "They just don't sell," Mr. Tong said. "We sell one cold hors d'oeuvre for every 30 hot ones like egg rolls, dumplings or spare ribs."
Twenty years ago, Mr. Pu was already lamenting what had become of his native food in American hands. Speaking of the Hunan food that was then the rage in San Francisco, he said: "What is often called Hunanese food is something made up to please the American palate. Once the pattern of spiciness and the overuse of garlic was established, nothing could change it."
THERE is another attitude that nothing seems to be able to change, either. Drew Nieporent, the restaurateur and an owner of Nobu, TriBeCa Grill and Montrachet in Manhattan, has been considering opening a Chinese restaurant. But he said: "One thing worries me -- price. There's a certain conditioning about Chinese restaurants that they shouldn't be expensive."
Mr. Tong said flatly, "American people won't come if you charge more than $75" per person.
Mr. Cost said: "Think about Hong Kong, where a single abalone dish can cost $1,100. And then ask why the restaurants here aren't as good."
It is true: the most expensive meal I have ever had was in a Hong Kong restaurant where dinner for two, without alcohol, was almost $1,000, in American dollars. The crabs alone, with delicious fat down to the end of their claws, cost $400. Would Americans be willing to pay those prices?
"No, they would not," said Mr. Cost, who still becomes angry when he thinks about the reviews of his now-defunct San Francisco restaurant, Monsoon. "One review called it Asian food at European prices. I was buying the same raw ingredients as Chez Panisse, but there was an attitude that Chinese food had to be cheap."
It is a prejudice that extends even to cookbooks, Ms. Simonds maintains. "Publishers tell me that people will pay more for an Italian or French cookbook than a Chinese one," she said.
Prejudice, however, goes both ways, and even if you were willing to spend a fortune on a Chinese meal, you might not succeed. There are many small restaurants serving good regional Chinese food, and they will feed you well. But when you get to the next level, eating well becomes more difficult. Consider the Chinese food palaces that opened when Hong Kong money was flooding into the United States in the early 90's.
"Hong Kong money is only invested in Chinatown and Flushing," Mr. Tong said. "They only want to cater to Chinese people. They have no interest in taking care of Caucasians."
The reasons are mainly pragmatic. "The Chinese spend more money," he said. "They eat more quickly. Caucasians come in, just a few of them, and they want to have a drink first. Then, when you want them to order, they say, 'Don't rush me.' "
The Chinese also arrive in bigger numbers, he said. "Look around," he said. "The Chinese go in groups. It's a cuisine of sharing. In a Chinese restaurant there are no tables for two or four; there are only big tables and private rooms."
Chinese people, Mr. Tong said, even order differently when they go out to eat. "They always," he said, "order ahead."
Scott Haas, a Boston food writer, recently had a meal at one of that city's best Chinese restaurants, New Shanghai. Julia Child and Ms. Simonds were seated nearby, and he noted that their food looked much more appealing than what was on his own table. When he asked C. K. Sau, the chef and an owner of the restaurant, the reason for it, Mr. Sau replied: "When Julia and Nina come in, they don't order. They call me the day before and say 'C. K., go to the market, get something fresh, get something that's in season.' They never order from the menu."
But is the culture gap unbridgeable? Probably not. Americans could certainly become more knowledgeable consumers of Chinese cuisine. Chinese restaurateurs could learn to trust American customers.
But it may be too late. Ed Schoenfeld, one of the first non-Chinese to take Chinese food seriously, recalls that when he was a manager at Uncle Tai's Hunan Yuan in Manhattan in 1973, the chefs were extraordinary. "The three top chefs each had 25 years' experience," he said. "The No. 10 chef had 10 years' experience. The rest had learned in Hong Kong and Taiwan. The food was wonderful. There aren't so many Chinese chefs of that caliber in New York anymore."
There may not, in fact, be many chefs of that caliber anyplace anymore. Ms. Simonds has just returned from Asia. She said that although she ate spendidly in Taiwan and Hong Kong, it was getting harder to find good food there, as well.
"My mentor, T. C. Lai, becomes very upset when he starts talking about the general level of cooking there," she said. "He is one of the most knowledgeable people about Chinese food, and he thinks the standard has gone down."

GRAPHIC: Photos: ROAST SQUAB WITH FROG LEGS -- At Shun Lee Palace in New York, classic dishes like these are examples of Chinese cooking at its highest level; BEGGAR'S CHICKEN -- The bird is stuffed with vegetables, wrapped in lotus leaves and encased in clay, which releases fragrant steam when opened; BRAISED SEA CUCUMBER WITH DUCKS' WEB -- The sea cucumber is stewed in soy, sherry and spices. As for the ducks' feet, the bones have been removed; PRAWNS ON BANANA LEAVES WITH CURRY SAUCE -- This new dish from Hong Kong was influenced by the flavors and spices of Southeast Asia; CLASSICIST -- Sun Man Do, one of only a few New York chefs trained in Chinese haute cuisine, cooking eel at Shun Lee Palace. (Photographs by Boyd Hagen for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%); HONG KONG (94%); FRANCE (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (91%); ASIA (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%); 

COMPANY: CHINESE RESTAURANTS (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%); HONG KONG (94%); FRANCE (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (91%); ASIA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (87%); IMMIGRATION (87%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); EMPLOYMENT (55%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (54%); 

PERSON: REICHL, RUTH CHING YUN PU (66%); MICHAEL TONG (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998



408 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Biggest One-Day Setback For Treasuries in 2 Months

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Giving back much of its previous day's gains, the Treasury market yesterday posted one of its biggest one-day losses in nearly two months.
The dollar weakened and overseas equity markets improved their tone, so some traders moved from Treasuries into shares abroad. However, domestically equity prices were still under pressure, and longer term, analysts expect Treasuries to rebound. 
 The 30-year bond dropped a full point to a price of 106 26/32, sending its yield which moves in the opposite direction, up to 5.65 percent, from 5.58 percent on Monday.
Economic statistics released yesterday point to a still vibrant business advance and a lift in trend rate inflation, according to Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management. Indeed, the three-tenths of 1 percent May rise in consumer prices unnerved many market participants.
"But while 0.3 percent may be an overstatement of the average monthly increase in the C.P.I. over the remainder of the year," he said, "at the same time inflation is not likely to be as favorable as the very tame 0.1 percent average of the last six months.
"Bond yields are now in a new, lower range, but there is a growing debate as to whether the long Treasury bond could move below 5.50 percent on a sustainable basis with monetary policy on hold and the Fed having a bias toward tightening, and yet without any clear-cut evidence of a long-lasting slowdown in economic growth."
Industrial production was up five-tenths of 1 percent in May, and coupled with some upward revisions to the prior two months it produced the first rise in capacity utilization since November. Housing in May remained healthy, although the level fell modestly from April.
The corporate bond calendar is heavy. Among the large issues in the pipeline is a $3.45 billion, eight-part offering today from the Niagara Mohawk Corporation that is rated speculative and is the largest junk deal of the decade, second only to RJR Nabisco's $4 billion plus in the 1980's, according to MCM Corporatewatch's Data Services.
Price talk ahead of Niagara's mega-deal has the yield spread over Treasury securities with similar maturities ranging from 125 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, for a one-year issue to about 287.5 basis points for 12 ears.
Proceeds are expected to be used to help pay for a revamping of the Syracuse-based utility that was approved by New York regulators. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (52%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT KRAFT NABISCO (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); TRENDS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); CORPORATE BONDS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); STATISTICS (75%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); DEBT FINANCING (71%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); APPROVALS (67%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998



409 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Richard L. Rosenthal, a Utilities Entrepreneur, Is Dead at 82

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS 

 BODY:
Richard L. Rosenthal, who took control of a small troubled company called Citizens Utilities after World War II and built it into a powerhouse of profit that made millionaires of many investors who stuck with him until he retired in 1989, died on Saturday. He was 82 years old.
His wife, Hinda, said yesterday that he died at home in Stamford, Conn., after a long illness. 
 Mr. Rosenthal not only made a mark as a builder of profitable companies like Citizens Utilities, which has its headquarters in Stamford, he was also known as a supporter of the arts.
He established the Richard and Hinda Rosenthal Foundation in 1948 to give cash awards to writers, painters and young film directors. Brian De Palma and Martin Scorsese were among the recipients when they were still making their way as young directors.
"Those of us who have been fortunate in society should make a real effort to put something back," Mr. Rosenthal said in a 1983 interview. "I don't mean just money, but energy and thought -- the whole panoply of one's intellectual capacity and experience."
Mr. Rosenthal stood taller than 6 feet, with reddish hair and a craggy face. He reveled in the limelight and tried his hand at acting. He had a small part, playing a judge, in a film called "Bad Boys," directed by his son, Rick.
"It reasonably may be said that I have been too vainglorious," he said in a 1981 Forbes magazine interview. "But it reasonably may be said that we have fulfilled what my objectives have been."
His career was not a story of rags to riches through hard work. It was of an ambitious young man who, after the Depression, concluded that success required knowledge.
Mr. Rosenthal graduated summa cum laude from New York University with a Bachelor of Science degree and then went on to graduate studies. "We were deadly serious about studying because we knew we had to know something -- and prove it -- in order to get any kind of job after leaving school," he once said of his graduating class.
He used his analytical abilities to land a $75-a-week job at Wertheim & Company, a Wall Street investment firm. While there he developed a research technique that involved traveling to study a business firsthand by interviewing management and employees instead of relying on material provided by companies.
Some friends on Wall Street were impressed with his abilities. They formed an investment group and asked Mr. Rosenthal, then 29, to buy control of some companies. He decided to focus on utilities because he considered their managements ineffective and thought that they failed to exploit fully their growth opportunities.
Mr. Rosenthal and the group acquired three small companies: Citizens Utilities, in 1946; Michigan Gas and Electric, in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, in 1947, and the New York Water Service Corporation, a water utility, in 1948.
During most of his career at Citizens Utilities he held the positions of president, chief executive and chairman.
His approach was to be highly diversified by region to better ride out economic cycles and not be under the influence of regulators from a few states.
He acquired more than 40 companies to build Citizens Utilities. Its revenues rose from $2.4 million to more than $300 million when he stepped down in 1989. By then Citizens Utilities had about 460,000 customers in more than 500 communities in 12 states.
Mr. Rosenthal also found an innovative way to raise money for his ventures. Instead of paying out most of the earnings in dividends, as most utilities do, he issued a special type of stock in which shareholders got stock as dividends.
Investors enjoyed one of the highest annual rates of return in the utility industry during his tenure.
Unlike most utility executives, he rarely built new power plants to meet rising demand for electricity in the many fast-growing Western areas into which he expanded. Instead he bought power from other producers.
To manage the widespread businesses, he sought executives who could operate independently. He kept a tight rein, however, requiring them to submit weekly reports, and he visited them periodically.
Mr. Rosenthal also built the New York Water Service Corporation into a diversified company called Utilities and Industries, which owned such businesses as Mills Music Inc., a large publisher of music, and a recreation complex in the Virgin Islands. The company was sold in 1969. Michigan Gas was sold to American Electric Power, a large utility in the Midwest, in 1967.
He is survived by his wife of 53 years, Hinda Gould Rosenthal; his daughter, Jamie Wolf, who is a writer in Beverly Hills, Calif.; his son, Rick, of Brentwood, Calif., who is a director of movies and television programs; a brother, Herbert C. Rosenthal of Santa Barbara, Calif., and four grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard L. Rosenthal
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: CZN (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: CITIZENS UTILITIES CO (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (75%); WRITERS (74%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (52%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, RICHARD L; SALPUKAS, AGIS MARTIN SCORSESE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998



410 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Prices Climbed 0.3% Last Month

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 16

 BODY:
Price increases for lettuce, cigarettes, gasoline and prescription drugs pushed up consumer inflation by three-tenths of a percent in May, Government figures showed today.
Though moderate, the seasonally adjusted rise in the Labor Department's Consumer Price Index was the largest in 17 months. In the first four months of 1998 and all of 1997, it had varied between no increase and a rise of two-tenths of a percent. 
 In other reports today, the Commerce Department said housing construction fell slightly in May for the third consecutive month.Construction starts on new homes were down seven-tenths of a percent, to an annual rate of 1.53 million units in May. The starts rate had hit a nine-year high of 1.62 million units in February.
Also, the Federal Reserve said production at factories, mines and utilities rose half a percent, the largest increase in six months. The rise was driven by a 2.8 percent surge at utilities, particularly for electricity generation, and a 1.2 percent jump at mines, reflecting a jump in coal production. At factories, production edged two-tenths of a percent higher.
American industry was operating at 82.2 percent of capacity in May, barely up from 82.1 percent in April.
For the first five months of the year, inflation ran at a 1.5 percent annual rate. Without the volatile food and energy sectors, the core rate of inflation advanced at a 2.7 percent annual rate, compared with a 2.2 percent increase for all of last year.
Most of the acceleration in the core rate came from price increases by tobacco companies preparing to settle huge liability lawsuits. Cigarette prices rose 2.6 percent in May and are now up 7.7 percent this year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (78%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); HOUSING; HOUSING STARTS; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTION ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); PRICE CHANGES (91%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (89%); COAL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TOBACCO MFG (78%); MINING OUTPUT (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (73%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (73%); COAL MINING (68%); COAL INDUSTRY (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998



411 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Major Indexes Up Slightly As Investors Hunt Bargains

BYLINE: By SHARON R. KING 

 BODY:
Major stock market indexes were modestly higher yesterday as investors looked for bargains but shunned many multinational companies with exposure to Asian markets. Instead, they sought technology issues, which have been battered recently by some of the same concerns that are now hurting the conglomerates.
As a result, the Nasdaq composite index rose 37.37 points -- erasing Monday's 29.30-point decline, to 1,753.12. The 2.18 percent gain was the largest percentage increase in the heavily laden technology barometer since March 6. 
 Worldcom and Microsoft were the leading gainers in the index.
One of the day's most active issues, Dell Computer, rose 5.9 percent, or 4 23/32 points, to 84 31/32. The stock has fallen almost 14 percent from its recent closing high of 98 1/4 on May 13.
Oil stocks were also higher as oil prices rose on news that several leading oil producers again agreed to cut production to lighten worldwide oversupply.
After a 207-point plunge Monday, the Dow Jones industrial average, which seesawed between gains and losses throughout the session, closed up 37.36 points at 8,665.29.
Procter & Gamble, Merck and Chevron led the index higher, as buyers selected stocks with positive news -- such as the oil shares -- or that they believed would not be severely hurt by the turmoil in Asia.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 10.58 points, to 1,087.59.
Calmer overseas markets helped stave off further declines, analysts said. In Asia, the dollar fell sharply against the yen after Japan's central bank indicated it might enter the market to support the currency.
No intervention took place, however, and the American currency made up some of its lost ground, closing at 143.47.
While the benchmark Japanese Nikkei 225 index fell 0.71 percent, most Asian stock markets were higher. European markets rose as well.
But after Monday's sharp selloff, some analysts were unimpressed by the market's limited gains.
"This was an attempt at a rally, but it was very uninspiring," said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at the First Albany Corporation. "It doesn't appear there's much confidence coming back to the market."
"When I ask, 'Does it appear the stock market has reached a near-term bottom?' The answer is no."
International Business Machines proved the biggest drag on the Dow, pulling 8.97 points out of the blue-chip index. I.B.M. closed at 110, down 2 1/4. A Merrill Lynch analyst, Steven Milunovich, lowered second-quarter earnings estimates for the personal-computer maker yesterday, citing concerns about weak computer sales, declining revenue in Asia and the strong dollar.
This year I.B.M., like many other technology companies, has been plagued by weakening demand and Asia's worsening economic problems.
I.B.M. warned in January that first-quarter profits would take a hit because of the strength of the dollar and slowing Asian demand for its products.
And when Coca-Cola reported first-quarter earnings in April, it attributed a 13.2 percent drop in earnings to the negative effect of Far Eastern currency fluctuations and warned that similar currency problems would affect second-quarter earnings.
Yesterday the dollar's recent strength caused a Merrill Lynch analyst, Douglas Lane, to reduce his earnings estimates for the the beverage company, which derives about 80 percent of its profits from outside the United States.
Last fall, as the Asian financial crisis was unfolding, shares of a number of multinational companies, including Coca-Cola, Gillette, Eastman Kodak and Polaroid, fell on fears that the dollar's strength would hurt earnings. Each of those issues closed lower yesterday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since June 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GLCH (NASDAQ) (63%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); PGP (PAR) (55%); PG (NYSE) (55%); IBMC (BRU) (51%); IBM (NYSE) (51%); IBM (LSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GLEACHER & CO INC (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (55%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (76%); COMPUTER MAKERS (75%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (75%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (74%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: KING, SHARON R

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998



412 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1928 words

HEADLINE: Russia, Between a Dream and a Nightmare

BYLINE: By James H. Billington; James H. Billington, the Librarian of Congress, is the author of "The Face of Russia," a forthcoming book and a PBS documentary series.

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
Both the greatest opportunity and the greatest danger for the United States internationally may well still lie in Russia. If we do not soon seize the opportunity, the danger will increase -- and could present us with the most serious threat to basic global stability since the end of the cold war.
The recent financial turmoil and labor unrest are signs of danger. The West's response -- yet another International Monetary Fund bailout -- shows that we are helping the reformers fight, and sometimes win, battles. But we are not winning the war. We may not even have a strategy, because we have not understood the extent and depth of either the material transformation or the spiritual demoralization of the Russian people since the fall of Communism. 
 During a week of intensive discussions with intellectual and political leaders in Russia, I found an alarming degree of fatalistic expectation that Russia is heading in an authoritarian direction, raising fears here that a nationalist dictator could come to power in the next two years. "He would be more like Ivan the Terrible than Peter the Great," predicted the leader of a Ukrainian province who was recently elected as a Communist.
The most recent broad poll of Russian public opinion seems to bear out this bleak assessment. When asked, "What leader on the territory of the former U.S.S.R. do you believe in?" Russians picked the proto-fascist dictator of neighboring Belarus, Aleksandr Lukashenko, and the authoritarian leader of Kazakhstan, Nursultan Nazarbayev. Each was mentioned by 20 percent of those polled. The respondents did not give a single Russian politician more than 0.4 percent of the vote.
When asked, "What idea could unify Russian society?" more Russians endorsed "the idea of Russia as a mighty world power" (35 percent) than the combined total of Communism, socialism, democracy, capitalism, Russian uniqueness and religion (32 percent altogether).
The danger is not that Russia would or could restore Communism, but that some new leader, feeling the popular resentment, would end up playing a role akin to that of Slobodan Milosevic in Serbia. The leader of Russia, however, could be brandishing or distributing weapons of mass destruction in the midst of a meltdown of order in Eurasia. Having barely contained chaos and violence in the former Yugoslavia, a relatively small country in the heart of Europe, the West would be unlikely to do much of anything at all about a larger mess in an even more remote region.
Other former Soviet republics would feel threatened, and some currently moderate Islamic states might be driven to Iranian-type authoritarianism. Whether or not Russia ended up fighting with or submitting to a still Communist China, the results would be disastrous for democracy.
Such unpleasant thoughts are largely absent from what passes for conventional wisdom in the West these days -- which is, more or less, that Russia will bumble along for many years without becoming either a real menace or a real partner, and can thus be safely relegated to the back burner of geopolitical thinking.
It is precisely geopolitics, however, that should put Russia on the front burner. America has fought five wars in this century -- all basically to prevent authoritarian power from gaining control of Eurasia. Having won the cold war, we may be in real danger of losing that older and more basic struggle to help freedom prevail over tyranny in the world's largest land mass. The sad fact is that Russia's ambitious project of democratization still lacks popular legitimacy -- and is facing elections (for the Parliament in 1999, the presidency in 2000) without a single unified party, an agreed-upon reform presidential candidate or an appealing vision.
Fortunately there is good news in Russia that makes this a time of new opportunity. Despite the outrages and inequities of their "robber baron capitalism," self help and prosperity are growing in ways that our macroeconomic charts have no way of describing. Moscow and St. Petersburg are boom towns. Governors and mayors are finding ingenious ways to raise money and provide services that are no longer coming from the central government. One out of three residences in the countryside has been built in the last 10 years -- as much as had been built in the preceding 40 years, according to the head of a leading research institute.
The West has been given a golden opportunity to help secure the Eurasian interior for democracy and development. Russia now has, for the first time, a thoroughly reformist leadership that is entirely unencumbered by the methods and habits of the Soviet past. The 35-year-old Prime Minister, Sergei Kiriyenko; his 38-year-old deputy and mentor, Boris Nemtsov, and other youthful new ministers give Russia a chance for a fresh start on its stalled effort to build a market economy relatively free from cronyism and corruption.
There is time -- though just barely -- to turn the present mood around before the elections, and the United States has material as well as moral and geopolitical reasons for being more helpful in this crucial period. Russia has the world's largest and most varied supply of untapped natural resources and a technologically literate population with rising consumer demands.
The standard rationalization for American inaction has been that Russia is just too large, too different and too impermeable for outside forces to play a role. But the rising Russian generation has an open and internationalist perspective. Moreover, Russians have always tended to use their main Western adversary as their secret model for emulation. They took their religion and art from Byzantium in the 10th and 11th centuries, their first modern government structure from the Swedes in the early 18th century and their economic organization from the Germans in the early 20th century -- all after or during prolonged conflict with those states.
The United States has long been such a model, and it is now seen as the most relevant and successful example of what Russian leaders are trying to create: a continentwide federal democracy and market economy in a multicultural, largely open expanse on the periphery of European civilization.
But America is losing its luster and its opportunity in Russia. Young Russians who idolized the United States and rather liked our openness and passion for extroverted bigness now see that the United States has done relatively little for them.
Russians are historically conditioned to believe that people who talk big but do little are somehow conspiring to do something hostile eventually. For a large country without secure borders and with many ethnic hostilities in its outlying regions, this pattern of Western behavior is interpreted as a desire to carve up Russia.
Russians recognize that they have not created the best conditions for foreign investment. But they feel humiliated that China is now getting more than 10 times as much American investment as their own struggling democracy. They are further aggravated by the spectacle of former high American officials falling all over one another to promote oil development in authoritarian Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan rather than the even greater energy resources in Russia.
The compensating gestures that Americans make to reassure the Russians of our friendship after the eastward extension of NATO tend only to deepen their sense of being patronized. Few people have ever suffered in peacetime as rapid and extensive a decline of power and standard of living as did the Russians after the collapse of Communism.
The Russian people tend to put up with difficulties for a long time before suddenly exploding. There is smoldering discontent just beneath the surface. The many varieties of fascism have all arisen out of disillusionment with a failed democratic experiment. Under almost any possible scenario for an authoritarian takeover, the resentment needed to support it would be directed against the United States. Having been a source of their hopes, we would become the focus of the fury that comes from unrequited love.
I found that democratic reformers both in the Government and in the opposition realistically recognize that Russia has to solve its own problems. They seemed neither to expect nor to want substantial financial aid. Since they think very pragmatically, however, they wonder why we cannot multiply some small programs that have proved their worth over the years. And, since their biggest problem in this nervous pre-election period is their failure to capture the Russian popular imagination, they wonder if America is -- as one reformer put it -- "any longer capable of following that old Robert Kennedy idea about asking 'why not?' rather than just 'why?' "
Aleksandr Yakovlev, an author of perestroika under Mikhail Gorbachev, said the most important thing the West could do was "to speak to and get to understand a far wider range of the Russian people than Americans are now doing." Trying to do that intensively for a week, I found universal enthusiasm for two ideas that would not take much public money. They would represent an effort on our part to do something big for the people who, after all, themselves ended the Soviet menace for all of us.
The first idea is to bring a genuinely large number of young Russians -- the entire cohort of new leaders, especially those from the provinces -- to spend time in the United States before the next election so that they can learn how democracy and civil society works. So far, exchange programs have amounted to little more than tokenism, even though they have worked extraordinarily well.
Bringing large numbers of Russians to the United States avoids the patronizing syndrome of sending Americans to Russia to tell the Russians how to run their lives. Only 1.5 percent of the Marshall Plan was spent on bringing young Germans to the United States after World War II, but it was decisive in building a new democratic Germany. Only a small number of the rapidly emerging new generation of Russian leaders have spent more than a day or two in the United States.
"Most of us," one brilliant young Russian leader proclaimed, "don't really believe your kind of system can work, because we haven't seen and felt it for ourselves."
But some dramatic demonstration is also needed inside Russia of creative capitalist development. I found genuine excitement in Russia about the idea that the United States might begin its long overdue major investment in the emerging Russian market with a key project or two that would reflect a broader American commitment to help Russia develop Siberia.
This vast region has enormous symbolic appeal for Russians. They view Siberia as the still-unspoiled spiritual heartland of Mother Russia. But they fear that China, which still has irredentist claims and a growing number of energetic guest workers in Siberia, will eventually take over much of it.
Americans have the know-how (and plans in the files of many United States corporations) to develop this unparalleled repository of resources, and could do it in ways that would protect and even enhance the environment -- thus giving the lie to the ultranationalist claim that capitalism will destroy Russians' special links with the natural world.
By collaborating across and beyond the Bering Strait where our two frontiers meet, we could begin turning our sights away from old enmities and current fears to the common development of this fragile planet's last largely untouched region.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Milan Trenc)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); UKRAINE (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); BELARUS (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; SIBERIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); UKRAINE (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); BELARUS (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLD WAR (78%); TRENDS (77%); RELIGION (74%); POLITICS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: BILLINGTON, JAMES H

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998



413 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Democratic Allies Mount Counteroffensive on Social Security

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 16

 BODY:
Concerned that conservatives and Wall Street are winning the ideological battle over Social Security's future, liberal Democrats, unions and left-leaning interest groups are scrambling to reverse the momentum toward the adoption of private investment accounts and come up with politically appealing proposals of their own.
No longer able to assume that Social Security is so sacrosanct that to fiddle with it would be political suicide, Democrats and liberal advocacy groups said they intended to offer detailed alternatives and become more aggressive in pointing out the risks and drawbacks of moving from a collective to a more individualized system. 
 To that end, Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts and Representative Earl Pomeroy of North Dakota, among others, are drafting legislation intended to address Social Security's long-term financing problems without resorting to private accounts.
Mr. Pomeroy, who has been designated by the House Democratic leadership to develop its position, has settled on a plan that would allow the Social Security system itself to invest in the markets, allowing beneficiaries to reap the presumed benefits available on Wall Street without shifting the risks or potential payoffs directly to individuals. Mr. Kennedy is considering a similar approach but has not yet made a decision.
The A.F.L.-C.I.O. is planning a grass-roots effort to educate its members about the issue and battle against both private accounts and proposals to increase the retirement age as part of any fix.
And liberal research groups and lobbying organizations -- including some that have not so far been heard from on the issue -- are stepping up their efforts to make their positions known. The National Organization for Women, for example, plans to make defense of the Social Security system a priority this year because women are particularly dependent on the program.
"There has been a major push by well-funded organizations who are getting money from Wall Street and elsewhere to promote Social Security privatization and are doing so by promoting an exaggerated sense of crisis," said Roger Hickey, the co-director of the Institute for America's Future, an advocacy organization that is trying to coordinate a liberal response.
"Then you have liberal groups who are pretty satisfied with Social Security, who don't perceive major problems and who have been slow to recognize a major threat," Mr. Hickey added. "It does appear that the privatizers have a jump on the debate. But that won't last for long."
Liberals have been on the defensive almost since the moment in January when President Clinton called for a yearlong national debate on how to prepare Social Security for the looming retirement of the baby boom generation, which by 2032 will leave the retirement program short of the money needed to pay all promised benefits.
The calls to look for a solution in the financial markets come at a time when Americans have grown increasingly sophisticated about and comfortable with investing, either on their own or through employer-sponsored retirement programs like 401(k) plans. With the market booming and the economy humming along, placing some portion of Social Security taxes into stocks and bonds clearly seemed attractive to many people.
Similarly, Democrats said, the conservative approach holds the promise of specific rewards for individuals. The liberal approach is a tougher sell, they said, calling for a commitment to a more generalized good, that of providing retirement security -- as well as disability and death benefits -- to everyone no matter what unexpected circumstances befall them or what happens in the markets.
But the political environment also created challenges for liberal Democrats. Because Mr. Clinton adopted the role of honest broker in the debate, precluding the White House from taking any position, many Democrats were hesitant to appear too partisan over an issue that would ultimately require support from both parties to address. Groups like the American Association of Retired Persons, perhaps the most powerful grass-roots force for maintaining Social Security's basic structure, also took their cue from Mr. Clinton and went to great lengths not to bash any potential solutions, including private accounts.
Meanwhile, conservative groups were mounting an all-out campaign in favor of private accounts. On Capitol Hill, Republicans endorsed a variety of proposals -- and jubilantly watched the Democratic ranks fracture as Senators Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, Bob Kerrey of Nebraska and others said they would back limited private accounts.
Proponents of private accounts said their approach was winning on the merits and had increasingly broad support. But opponents said early enthusiasm for the concept in general terms would give way to a realization that the specific tradeoffs necessary to bring about such a change would result in a substantial drop in support for the idea.
Opponents of private accounts are highlighting the potential risks of a sustained market downturn and the substantial costs of administering millions of individual accounts. And they are increasingly rallying around the idea of having the Social Security system rather than individuals invest in the financial markets.
Such an approach is supported by the American Association of Retired Persons and by unions, among other groups, and it will be the centerpiece of the plan that Mr. Pomeroy hopes to introduce in a few weeks.
Among the approach's advantages is that it avoids one of the biggest problems associated with moving to private accounts -- the need to make up for the money that would be diverted from payroll taxes into the personal accounts. Because the payroll taxes levied on current workers are needed to pay benefits to current retirees, diverting a portion of them into private accounts requires privatization proposals to rely on some combination of additional benefit cuts and new sources of revenue, like projected Federal budget surpluses, to fill the hole.
Collective investment would avoid that problem, thereby requiring less in the way of benefit cuts. Although it would create the potential for other problems, including the possibility that the Government's investment decisions would have a huge effect on the financial markets and even on individual stocks, supporters of the approach said it was far superior to private accounts.
"We'll achieve higher investment returns," Mr. Pomeroy said, "without the downside of imposing on Social Security beneficiaries the individual risks that come with investing in markets."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AFL-CIO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); LABOR UNIONS; STOCKS AND BONDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); WOMEN (78%); BONDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); BABY BOOMERS (64%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN); POMEROY, EARL (REPR) TED KENNEDY (88%); EARL POMEROY (88%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998



414 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Senate Panel Ponders Long-Term Effect of Mergers

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 16

 BODY:
Confronted with a merger wave that is reshaping industries like banking, communications and military contracting, the Senate Judiciary Committee began debating today whether the trend was going too far and putting workers, consumers and the economy's long-term health at risk.
The initial answer, from the White House and from Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, was that despite the headline-grabbing deals, there is little evidence so far of excessive consolidation. But the session highlighted some continuing political tensions. 
 Mr. Greenspan, a champion of unfettered markets, questioned one of the tenets of current antitrust policy: the idea that the Government could determine in advance which planned mergers would prove to be anti-competitive and head them off. Given the speed of technological change, Mr. Greenspan said, it might be better to wait and see which mergers actually create competition problems.
"I would feel very uncomfortable if we inhibited various different types of mergers or acquisitions on the basis of some presumed projection as to how markets would evolve, how technology would evolve, because history is strewn with people making projections which have turned out to be grossly inaccurate," Mr. Greenspan said.
Mr. Greenspan's views were disputed by the Government's two top antitrust regulators, Joel I. Klein, an Assistant Attorney General, and Robert Pitofsky, the chairman of the Federal Trade Commission.
"The problem is that if you challenge the merger before it happens, it's not very expensive to remedy it," Mr. Pitofsky told the senators. "After the merger, after the assets are scrambled, the employees have been fired, the management has gone elsewhere, the factories have been sold for junk in some other country, then putting the company back in business is enormously expensive."
Senator Orrin Hatch, the Utah Republican who is the committee's chairman, said it was important for policy makers to step back and examine long-term consequences. But, he added, it is also important to avoid "simple, reflexive" reactions based either on the notion that big is by definition bad or that markets would ultimately take care of competition problems on their own.
Democrats on the committee suggested that they and their constituents were ready to challenge business combinations that they saw as rewarding corporate executives and shareholders but leaving workers and communities out.
"I've really come to question how much we should be laissez-faire when it comes to this whole era of merger and acquisition," said Senator Diane Feinstein, Democrat of California.
The Clinton Administration has undertaken its own review of merger activity. But in testimony before the committee today, Janet L. Yellen, the chairwoman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers, suggested that the Administration was not overly concerned about the merger boom.
"The evidence we have does not suggest any alarming trend toward economic activity being concentrated in large firms," Ms. Yellen said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; BANKS AND BANKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DEFENSE CONTRACTS; LABOR; CONSUMER PROTECTION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MERGERS (89%); TRENDS (89%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); STEVENSON, RICHARD W ALAN GREENSPAN (91%); ORRIN HATCH (58%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998



415 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: In Drive for Unity, Hyundai Founder Takes Cattle to North Korea

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 16

 BODY:
In an exercise that the United States military patroling between North and South Korea dubbed "Operation Rawhide," the founder of the giant Hyundai conglomerate drove 500 head of cattle across the border to the North today in an effort to aid reconciliation on the divided peninsula.
Chung Ju Yung, the 83-year-old founder of Hyundai, which makes everything from cars to semiconductors, passed through Panmunjom at 10 A.M., leading a convoy of 50 trucks filled with cattle from his ranch. 
 The cattle will be hooked up to plows and used to work farmland in North Korea, which has been suffering from food shortages that are aggravated by its political isolation. Mr. Chung will stay in the North eight days, visiting his hometown of Tongchon in Kangwon Province and trying to do a little business, according to Kim Sangnyun, a spokesman for Mr. Chung. He was accompanied by three brothers, two sons, and Hyundai officials and others who entered North Korea via Beijing.
"At the border he announced that this visit won't just be a visit to his birthplace," Mr. Chung's spokesman said. "He wants this visit to be a kind of cornerstone leading to North-South reunification and to peace."
North and South Korea have been bitter enemies for half a century, but the South Korean President, Kim Dae Jung, has increasingly been advocating a more pragmatic approach to the North, where the United States largely prohibits American companies from doing business.
Mr. Kim has said that greater political and economic engagement is the best way of softening the North's hard-line Stalinist stance, and he has unofficially designated South Korea's business leaders as ambassadors to the North.
Mr. Chung has apparently taken that directive to heart. While his visit is primarily humanitarian, the spokesman said Mr. Chung also plans to discuss with North Korean officials the potential for developing a resort that would cater to South Koreans visiting relatives there.
Last year North Korea ran a trade surplus with South Korea, which is its third-largest trading partner after China and Japan. But the South Korean economic crisis has put a big dent in Seoul's demand for gold, zinc and other metals that accounted for 50 percent of its imports from the North in 1997.
North Korea is apparently in no rush to restore South Korean demand for its products. Much of the demand comes in the form of "processing on commission" trade, under which South Korea ships pieces to North Korea where they are assembled and exported back to the South.
North Korea charges South Korea dollars for that kind of production, and although the Korean won has plunged against the dollar, the North has not adjusted its dollar prices. "The conclusion I draw from that is that North Korea is not really interested in big South Korean investments," a Western diplomat said today. "What they want is U.S. investment."
Mr. Chung previously shipped 10,000 tons of corn across the border and plans to send another 40,000 tons during the next several months. He chose to make a dramatic gesture with cattle because he has fond memories of selling one of his father's cows to get the money that ultimately led to his success as a businessman, the spokesman said. "He has always been thinking that he owes something to the cows," the spokesman said.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 011760 (KSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423830 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (92%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5051 METALS SERVICE CENTERS & OFFICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (55%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (71%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

COMPANY: HYUNDAI GROUP HYUNDAI CORP (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: HYUNDAI GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (55%); BEIJING, CHINA (71%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA BEEF CATTLE FARMING (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (72%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (69%); EXPORT PRICES (66%); CURRENCIES (66%); EXPORT TRADE (66%); IMPORT TRADE (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (61%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE; CHUNG JU YUNG KIM DAE JUNG (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998



416 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Goals Are Set for Iraq, but U.N. Aides Remain Wary

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, June 16

 BODY:
Officials here cautioned today that although the chief United Nations arms inspector succeeded over the weekend in setting a list of immediate goals for Iraq to meet before an eight-year embargo on oil sales could be lifted, other more difficult issues remained.
Nizar Hamdoon, Iraq's representative at the United Nations, said in an interview today that the inspector, Richard Butler, had laid out in Baghdad exactly what Iraq needed to do to come into compliance with Security Council resolutions. Iraq welcomed the move, he said, and has pledged cooperation. 
 "He provided a final list, and that's important," Mr. Hamdoon said. "And they have agreed on a time frame for the different activities."
But diplomats here and in the Middle East say Mr. Butler never intended to predict that Iraq would meet by early August the conditions for ending sanctions. The first assessment of Iraqi compliance will be made in August, almost exactly eight years after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. The sanctions are due to be reviewed in October.
There are now concerns among diplomats that Iraq will try to turn any cooperation into proof that it has met all demands, as it did when it allowed diplomats and inspectors to conduct pro forma inspections of presidential palaces earlier this year.
United Nations officials said that in talks with the Iraqis last weekend Mr. Butler decided to focus during the next two months on straightforward disarmament measures -- the handing over of weapons parts still unaccounted for in biological, chemical and missile programs. That would set aside for later the larger questions of documentation involving areas of official decision-making, especially on Iraqi concealment policies, which inspectors say were deliberate attempts to confuse and confound their work.
Also put aside for the moment are demands for proof that 300 tons of missile fuel has been destroyed, according to diplomats who spoke to Reuters in Baghdad. Mr. Butler's team has said the fuel was suitable only for Scud-type missiles. Iraq insists it has other uses.
Bill Richardson, the United States representative at the United Nations, and other diplomats said today that the order in which Iraq approached its tasks did not change the reality that it had a way to go before it could resume selling oil and even longer to go before the broader trade embargo would be lifted completely. Iraq will also remain under international scrutiny for an indefinite period after sanctions are lifted.
"In our view, based on Unscom's last briefing with the Security Council, Iraq has a long way to go to fully comply with the disarmament provisions relating to chemical and biological weapons," Mr. Richardson said in an interview, referring to the United Nations Special Commission, which Mr. Butler leads. "The Iraqis are good at rhetoric about complying but when it comes to fulfilling their commitments they are always woefully short. We don't expect the Butler road map to be met."
Mr. Butler, who is on his way to Australia from the Middle East, was not available for comment today.
Officials said that he would submit a report on his talks in Baghdad to the Security Council by the end of the week and that it would outline his program of action. It is expected to detail the timetable of action for the period before the next half-yearly sanctions review in October.
Today, Iraqi officials said Mr. Butler and Unscom had "finally shown flexibility," and they tried to turn Mr. Butler's more conciliatory, methodical approach into progress, if not victory, even in the most difficult area, biological weapons.
"We agreed on a new approach, a practical approach, within the context of disarmament to address the biological file," Tariq Aziz, the Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister who negotiates with Mr. Butler, said today in Baghdad, where an Egyptian trade fair opened -- a signal of Iraq's hopes.
Iraq, which when not promising compliance is denying it has any disarming left to do, is pressing hard for some lifting of sanctions -- at least the bar on oil sales -- in October.
Mr. Hamdoon confirmed today that his Government decided last week not to accept any more relief aid from American or other foreign groups that have been willing to defy sanctions if necessary to import medicines and other commodities for Iraqis suffering from sanctions. Iraq asked its friends abroad to lobby against sanctions instead.
Russia, Iraq's strongest supporter on the Security Council, seemed to take a less optimistic view of the Baghdad talks. In Moscow today, a Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman, Vladimir Rakhmanin, told reporters that the meetings between Mr. Butler and Mr. Aziz had been "tense."
A special Russian presidential envoy for the Middle East was sent to Baghdad this week to hold his own meetings with Iraqi leaders.
The envoy, Viktor Posuvalyuk, played an important role earlier this year in defusing a crisis that led to an American war buildup in the Persian Gulf and ultimately to the visit by Secretary General Kofi Annan to Baghdad.
Some Security Council members are questioning whether the United States, with a range of international crises to confront, will be able to give much attention to Iraq if Mr. Butler runs into trouble again with Baghdad. On May 26 the Pentagon announced that half its forces in the gulf area would be withdrawn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (86%); INSPECTIONS (79%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; BUTLER, RICHARD; HAMDOON, NIZAR (AMB) BILL RICHARDSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998



417 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Visiting French Premier: Leftist, or a Pragmatist?

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS, June 16

 BODY:
"When the French want to change policy, they will turn to you," President Francois Mitterrand told Lionel Jospin, his fellow Socialist and longtime party aide, in 1995 after Mr. Jospin unsuccessfully sought the presidency.
French voters elected Mr. Jospin Prime Minister a year ago, throwing out a conservative Government that had tried to slim down generous French welfare state benefits that were driving up deficits. 
 But since then, not only his compatriots but also officials of the United States have come to see Mr. Jospin as pursuing many of the same policies as his conservative predecessor, only more effectively. Mr. Jospin begins his first official trip to the United States on Thursday.
The biggest success was meeting the deficit-reduction requirements for France to join the euro, the common currency that starts on Jan. 1, a target the conservatives said would require unpopular austerity measures.
The conservatives' candor brought them defeat at the polls when Jacques Chirac, who defeated Mr. Jospin for the presidency, called a surprise election last spring. Mr. Jospin, who had promised to make jobs his main priority, then had a stroke of luck when the French economy started a powerful recovery. That brought in extra tax revenues and enabled France to squeak in under the budget-deficit limits without further big budget cuts.
Mr. Jospin's popularity rating has dipped below 50 percent only once since his election.
His handling of an embarrassing strike by pilots of the state-owned airline, Air France, this month has brought grudging expressions of respect even from conservatives. The pilots agreed last week to a seven-year salary freeze and voluntary pay cuts in exchange for stock options after Air France is partly privatized later this year. These were basically the terms offered at the outset.
The United States Ambassador, Felix G. Rohatyn, observed the other day that this episode was one of many indicating that Mr. Jospin was less a leftist than a pragmatist who was quietly adapting France's state-dominated economy to the demands of global competition.
"This Government has seemed to me to be quite pragmatic about starting restructuring of defense industries and of the Airbus consortium, and about going ahead with privatization of France Telecom and Thomson," he said. He was referring to Mr. Jospin's decisions to open the French telecommunications market to private investment; reorganize Airbus, a civilian airliner company, and regroup state-dominated military electronics industries like Thomson-CSF with private investments as well. All these policies began under the conservatives.
The combative Mr. Jospin, who turns 61 next month, tells people that his responsibility is to govern France as effectively as possible during his time as Prime Minister. But many say he will make another run for the presidency at the end of Mr. Chirac's first term, in 2002.
On the fundamental issues of European policy and relations with the United States, even Ambassador Rohatyn says: "Franco-American relations are driven by interests and by philosophy. I haven't seen any real difference between the presidency and the Prime Minister's office on these issues."
The biggest French-American difference at the moment is in unemployment. French joblessness has started to fall from near-record levels of the last several years but is still near 12 percent, three times that in the United States. And Mr. Chirac and Mr. Jospin have both resisted suggestions by American policymakers that reducing the French welfare state's heavy payroll taxes might encourage employers to do more hiring.
Mr. Jospin has admitted that he and his Socialists underestimated the job-creating potential of the less encumbered United States economy, and might have lessons to learn.
As for private versus public ownership of French companies, he says that how a company contributes to overall prosperity and employment is of more interest than who owns it.
But friends say Mr. Jospin remains faithful to his lifelong Socialist upbringing in one respect: he prefers the phrase "market economy" to "capitalism."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FTE (PAR) (85%); FTE (NYSE) (85%); FTE (BIT) (85%); HO (PAR) (84%); AF (PAR) (54%); AF (AMS) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (84%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (52%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: FRANCE TELECOM SA (85%); THALES SA (84%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (54%); AIRBUS SAS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; FRANCE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CONSERVATISM (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (71%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); EURO (69%); CURRENCIES (69%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (69%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); ELECTRONICS (66%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (65%); STOCK OPTIONS (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (53%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; JOSPIN, LIONEL (PRIME MIN); ROHATYN, FELIX G (AMB) JACQUES CHIRAC (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998



418 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: MILOSEVIC PLEDGES STEPS TO HOLD OFF ATTACK FROM NATO

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, June 16

 BODY:
President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia promised today to make concessions over Kosovo to forestall military action by the West. But he failed to meet one key demand: the withdrawal of Serbian security forces accused of attacking ethnic Albanians in the province.
After a day of closed-door meetings here with President Boris N. Yeltsin and other top Russian officials, the Yugoslav leader announced his promises. They included access for relief groups and international monitors, arrangements for refugees to return and the resumption of talks with Kosovo's Albanians. 
 Russian officials, who like Mr. Milosevic are eager to head off NATO air strikes, were quick to cast his pledges as an important breakthrough.
But it is far from clear whether his concessions are merely tactical or whether he is genuinely prepared to ease the repression in Kosovo, where 90 percent of the population is Albanian.
Western officials said Mr. Milosevic had met NATO only part way. Western diplomats at NATO headquarters said the alliance was continuing to work on military options. But the threat of military action has, in effect, been deferred.
"There was some progress," Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said. But she added that Mr. Milosevic "did not meet the primary points that the contact group raised." The contact group, which monitors events in the Balkan region, consists of the United States, Britain, Germany, France, Italy and Russia.
In a defiant news conference in an ornate Russian Foreign Ministry mansion, Mr. Milosevic denied that Serbian forces had ever harmed Albanians in Kosovo. "There was no kind of 'ethnic cleansing,' " he said. "In the latest actions it was declared by the security forces there were no civilian victims at all."
International observers have painted a very different picture. They say at least 250 ethnic Albanians have been killed in the fighting and at least 65,000 have been forced to abandon their homes in the province, where separatist sentiment is growing.
Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations has condemned the Serbian crackdown as "ethnically driven violence."
Mr. Milosevic's talks with the Russians took place a day after NATO conducted air exercises over the Balkans in an effort to put pressure on him to end the crackdown in Kosovo. Serbia, where Kosovo is situated, is the larger and more powerful of Yugoslavia's two republics.
The Yugoslav President met with Mr. Yeltsin today and then engaged in several hours of talks with Foreign Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov, Defense Minister Igor D. Sergeyev and other top Kremlin officials as the two sides sought to cobble together a statement.
Throughout the Kosovo crisis, Moscow has had conflicting motivations.
On one hand, Mr. Yeltsin has an interest in maintaining good relations with the West, especially since Moscow wants billions of dollars in Western loans to help overcome its financial crisis.
Some Russian officials also acknowledge that Mr. Milosevic has gone too far in Kosovo. Mr. Primakov, for example, went along last week with the demand by his fellow foreign ministers in the contact group on the Balkans, who insisted that Mr. Milosevic withdraw security forces from Kosovo.
But the Russians see solidarity with their fellow Slavs in Yugoslavia as a useful card to play in domestic politics.
And in the Russian view, Mr. Milosevic is defending an important principle when he says he is entitled to take firm steps to insure that Kosovo remains part of Serbia. Russia has its own regions of ethnic tension -- like Chechnya, where it fought a two-year war against separatists -- and is not eager to invite international scrutiny or intervention.
Further, Mr. Primakov enjoys playing a pivotal role in world affairs and is no friend of NATO.
NATO countries have threatened measures including military intervention if Mr. Milosevic does not stop the Serbian offensive. The Russian newspaper Izvestia bluntly outlined one of the main purposes of today's meeting: "Russia is trying to save the Serbs from NATO bombing."
After a day of lengthy negotiations, Mr. Primakov claimed a major breakthrough.
"We believe this opens up a real possibility to resolve the situation," Mr. Primakov said at a news conference with Mr. Milosevic. "In many ways the ball is now in the court of the Kosovo Albanians."
Western officials will be monitoring the situation in Kosovo for the next several weeks to see if the Serbs keep their promises.
Mr. Milosevic has, in fact, promised to take some noteworthy steps. He agreed that there would be no restrictions on the work of international organizations, like the International Committee of the Red Cross, or on international monitors. And he promised to allow refugees who had fled Kosovo to return.
He also agreed to continue talks with ethnic Albanians on "forms of autonomy," though he spurned the idea of doing so with the help of international mediators. Western officials are worried that any talks will stall without international supervision.
The Western-dominated contact group had demanded that Mr. Milosevic recall intelligence and army units sent to Kosovo for the crackdown. Security forces inside Kosovo, they insisted, should be confined to their bases. But Mr. Milosevic refused to take the initiative and instead put the onus on the Albanians.
"As terrorist activities subside, security forces will reduce their presence outside the areas of their permanent deployment," Mr. Milosevic said in a joint statement with Mr. Yeltsin.
Refugees crossing into Albania from Kosovo today reported attacks on mountain refugee camps by Yugoslav Army helicopters, but there was no independent confirmation of those reports.
The Yugoslav President told reporters today that his position was intended to protect the principle of Serbian sovereignty over Kosovo. He revoked Kosovo's autonomous status within Serbia in 1989.
"There are no reasons or grounds for the Yugoslav Army not to be on the territory of Yugoslavia," Mr. Milosevic said. "Any withdrawal of units of the Yugoslav Army from any part of Yugoslavia is out of the question."
Today's statement also showed some of the contradictions in the Russian position.
Mr. Primakov, who sat at Mr. Milosevic's side throughout the news conference, joined the contact group's call for the withdrawal of Serbian security forces. But the Russian Foreign Minister then endorsed the far weaker measure today.
Mr. Milosevic seemed to enjoy his verbal jousts with the press. When Western reporters pressed him about the violence in Kosovo, he shot back that Albanian "terrorist groups" had mounted reprisals against ethnic Albanians who had refused to support them.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia, left, met with President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia yesterday in Moscow as a translator stood by. (Associated Press)(pg. A6)
 
Map of Yugoslavia showing location of Kosovo: Kosovo's ethnic Albanians are under attack by Serbian forces. (pg. A6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; RUSSIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); MOSCOW (RUSSIA); SERBIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (58%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

SUBJECT: RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SERBIA; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); REFUGEES (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998



419 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: G.M.'s Plant in Brazil Raises Fears Closer to Home

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 16

 BODY:
The strikes now crippling General Motors, while partly about short-term job security and workplace safety disputes, reflect a larger struggle over how far G.M. will go in adopting at home the manufacturing techniques it is introducing abroad.
G.M.'s operations in Brazil have copied Japanese manufacturing practices and have become the company's most profitable, efficient and flexible. When G.M. introduced new midsize sedans in the United States and Brazil two years ago, a Kansas factory took seven months to make the switch while the Brazilian factory reached full production in three months. 
 The last two presidents of G.M.'s Brazilian operations, G. Richard Wagoner Jr. and Mark T. Hogan, now run G.M.'s North American operations and are trying to apply Brazil's lessons here. "We can take what we've learned in the manufacturing and technology in Brazil and apply that in the United States, and that's every bit my intention," said Mr. Hogan, G.M.'s vice president for small cars, in an interview last year in Sao Paulo.
Outside suppliers in Brazil are assembling many parts for G.M. cars before delivering them to the assembly plants -- sending partly assembled dashboards, for example, instead of speedometers, gas gauges, radios and glove boxes. Auto makers used to bolt these parts together inside an assembly plant, and G.M. still does in the United States, even though this occupies costly space and increases labor costs.
G.M.'s efforts to vastly increase efficiency with pre-assembled parts is part of a trend sweeping the entire auto industry. But where G.M. sees efficiency, the United Automobile Workers union sees a threat. Many of G.M.'s moves in Brazil have reduced the people needed for each vehicle produced, particularly during final assembly. Brazilian unions have accepted thisbecause G.M. has been hiring as it builds more factories in Brazil's expanding market.
In the United States, G.M.'s share of the American car market has shrunk from 40.7 percent in 1985 to 31 percent last year. The company has been steadily closing factories as a result. So proposals to reduce employment more quickly at the remaining factories have alarmed an already angry U.A.W. and its workers. Particularly galling for the union is that G.M. is cutting back in the United States -- and buying more parts from nonunion suppliers -- even as it builds new assembly plants in Poland, China, Thailand and Argentina along Brazilian lines.
G.M. is "ignoring their social contract with America, by transferring jobs, technology and capital from the U.S.," said Richard Shoemaker, the U.A.W.'s vice president for G.M. issues.
Strikes at two parts factories in Flint, Mich., have forced G.M. to close 17 of its 28 North American assembly plants so far for lack of parts. G.M. has temporarily laid off 71,700 workers, including 2,300 today at an assembly plant in Shreveport, La., that makes small pickup trucks.
In the course of expanding overseas, G.M. has discovered that it can operate far more efficiently than in the United States. That has been particularly true in Brazil.
The differences in G.M. operations start with the shape of the factories: They are L-shaped or T-shaped in Brazil, while G.M.'s factories in the United States still tend to be gigantic squares, with each side as long as several football fields. The advantage of the Brazilian design is that it offers more exterior walls for loading docks, which allows outside suppliers to produce more of a vehicle.
Toyota Motor has been asking its suppliers for years to deliver partly assembled sections of cars, and it dramatically reduces the number of assembly plant workers that are needed. G.M.'s operations in the United States have been slow to learn from the company's 15-year-old joint venture to built cars with Toyota in Fremont, Calif. But many of the G.M. managers from that joint venture have gone on to Brazil.
G.M. has begun reviewing whether to build a Brazilian-style factory with lots of loading docks in the United States. The company is also trying to expand the role that outside suppliers play even at existing American factories with few loading docks. Other auto makers are undertaking similar experiments -- Volkswagen at one of its Brazilian factories and Mercedes-Benz at factories in France and at a nonunion factory in Alabama. Ford Motor and Chrysler are moving to buy more partly assembled car systems.
But while American auto makers' assembly plants in the United States are entirely unionized, most suppliers are not, and that upsets the U.A.W. The suppliers' employees do not pay union dues and commonly earn a third less than the $20 an hour paid to U.A.W. members. According to Mr. Shoemaker, one of the many thorny issues in the Flint strike has been G.M.'s desire to have metal stamping equipment there maintained by outside contractors instead of U.A.W. workers.
G.M.'s labor contracts effectively bar it from dismissing U.A.W. workers. But the company has tried for years to avoid replacing workers who retire, and will have even less incentive to hire new workers as it copies the Brazilian model here. That alarms U.A.W. members who want jobs for their children.
To be sure, auto makers all over the world have tried to emulate elements of Toyota's lean manufacturing strategy, which seeks to minimize waste of labor, investment and materials. But G.M.'s Brazilian operations have gone further than many manufacturers. Even G.M.'s Saturn factory in Spring Hill, Tenn., seems out of date to many manufacturing experts because it cannot easily accommodate the delivery of partly assembled pieces of cars.
G.M.'s factories in Brazil have also embraced Japanese labor practices, with workers and managers eating together and with G.M. providing extensive information to the workers about how each segment of an assembly line is doing in terms of productivity and safety. A few G.M. factory managers have taken the same approach in the United States, but many factories retain a strong caste system in which white-collar and blue-collar workers stay apart while managers provide little information to assembly line workers.
G.M.'s high profits in Brazil have suffered this year as the country's economy has slowed. But G.M. continues to invest heavily there, contending that the market is growing and the Brazilian operation's efficiency should be rewarded.
By contrast, G.M. has delayed investments in some American factories, including those struck in Flint, while demanding that the workers put in longer hours or make other changes to improve productivity. The U.A.W. contends that inadequate investment and poor management are to blame for lagging productivity, not the workers.
Although the current negotiations in Flint focus on narrow issues of work rules and investment at G.M. auto parts factories in Flint, the workers see the strike in international terms. "G.M. is done with America," said Glenn Reynolds, a 57-year-old metal stamping worker on strike in Flint, as he left his local union hall today.
G.M. insists that none of the foreign assembly plants being built will be used to ship cars back to the United States.
For now, G.M.'s international expansion has mostly hurt American workers by limiting exports from the United States. G.M. has been shipping Chevrolet Blazer sport utility vehicles from Sao Jose dos Campos, Brazil, to Russia, for example, even though G.M.'s Blazer factory in Moraine, Ohio, is much closer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); CHINA (79%); THAILAND (51%); POLAND (51%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); CHINA (79%); THAILAND (51%); POLAND (51%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; STRIKES; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS; PRODUCTIVITY STRIKES (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); INTERVIEWS (72%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH RICK WAGONER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998



420 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Stocks Rebound Slightly As Investors Seek Bargains
Stock market gauges rose slightly as investors sought bargains but shunned multinational companies with exposure to the financial turmoil in Asia .
The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 37.37 points, to 1,753.12, erasing Monday's 29.30-point decline. The 2.18 percent gain was the largest percentage increase in the barometer in more than three months. Among the big gainers on the Nasdaq were Intel, Microsoft and Dell Computer. Dell jumped 5.9 percent on news it was in talk with Microsoft to custom-design personal computers. Page D10. 

Pressmans to Give Up Titles
Bob and Gene Pressman will step down soon as co-chief executives of Barney's, the luxury fashion retailer started by their grandfather, executives involved in the negotiations said. The two will remain consultants to the company as it continues to emerge from bankruptcy protection. D2.
 
Larger Issue Underlies G.M. Strikes
The strikes crippling General Motors, while partly about job security and workplace safety, reflect a broader struggle over how America's auto industry will make vehicles. G.M. wants to embrace efficient techniques it uses in countries like Brazil. But where G.M. sees efficiency, the United Automobile Workers union sees a threat. A1.
 
Pfizer to Sell Schneider Unit
Pfizer will sell its Schneider Worldwide unit, which makes stents used to hold open arteries, to Boston Scientific for $2.1 billion. D11.
 
Obstacle Looms for Financial Bill
The Clinton Administration all but doomed efforts to update the nation's Depression-era financial services law this year, saying it would not budge from its opposition to the bill passed last month by the House and that it wants to start over next year. D6.
 
No Harm Seen by Merger Wave
The White House and the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, agreed in testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee that there was little evidence of excessive consolidation from the mergers sweeping the banking, telecommunications and military contracting industries. D22.
 
Consumer Prices Up 0.3% in May
Price increases for lettuce, cigarettes, gasoline and prescription drugs pushed up consumer inflation by three-tenths of 1 percent in May, the largest increase in 17 months. In another report, construction starts on new homes were down seven-tenths of 1 percent last month, to an annual rate of 1.53 million units. D10.
 
Merck Expected to Get Windfall
Astra, the Swedish drug giant, is expected to buy Merck's share of the two companies' joint venture. That, plus last month's DuPont deal, means Merck is looking at a multibillion-dollar windfall. Market Place. D9.
 
Jury Rejects Workers' Injury Claims
A Federal jury rejected claims by nine people that they were injured by using computer keyboards made by Digital Equipment. D2.
 
Some Miss Big Payday at Goldman
For retired, resigned and might-have-been partners of Goldman, Sachs the announcement on Monday that the private investment bank would go public was the ultimate missed opportunity. These limited partners will not receive big bonuses as the investment bank issues shares. D9.
 
Fee Cap Backed in Tobacco Cases
The Senate voted to limit lawyers' fees in suits against cigarette makers. A1.
 
A Managed Care Failure in California
The California Medical Association is closing the managed care company that it and 7,500 of its member physicians created to take on the state's big H.M.O.'s. After two and a half years, three chief executives and $11 million in losses, the association's company, California Advantage, will file for bankruptcy. A12.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,665.29, up 37.36
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.65%, up 0.07
The Dollar -- 143.47 yen, down 2.68
 
Graphs tracks Nasdaq daily closes, since last Tuesday, and the percent change in consumer prices, from December 1997 through May 1998.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (83%); MRK (NYSE) (83%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); PFZ (LSE) (55%); PFE (NYSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (55%); BSX (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (55%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (54%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (54%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (54%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (83%); INTEL CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); PFIZER INC (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (54%); SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MERGERS (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (74%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (72%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); MEDICAL DEVICES (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); RETAILERS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); JURY TRIALS (67%); INFLATION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); PERSONAL INJURY (61%); VERDICTS (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (54%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998



421 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: Senate Approves Limiting Fees Lawyers Get in Tobacco Cases

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 16

 BODY:
In what could be a crucial week on tobacco legislation, the Senate voted today by the narrowest of margins to limit lawyers' fees in suits against cigarette makers.
The vote came shortly after Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader, scheduled a meeting of all Republican senators for Wednesday morning to decide whether to stop debate on the tobacco bill and bring the legislation to a final vote. 
 Under the amendment added today to the tobacco bill, now in its fourth week before the Senate, lawyers who took the greatest risk and were involved in cases before 1995 could collect as much as $4,000 an hour. But the allowable fee would drop on a sliding scale so that those who enter cases after today could not charge more than $500 an hour. As matters now stand, some lawyers could make tens of millions of dollars from tobacco suits that have been settled.
"For those who were in this litigation early," said Senator Slade Gorton, Republican of Washington, the sponsor of the amendment, "the reward they have earned is considerably larger than the awards that will be earned by those who got into this litigation very late in the game when it was obvious that the litigation was going to be settled for large amounts of money or litigated successfully."
Senator Gorton's amendment was approved, 49 to 48. Two earlier amendments to restrict lawyers' fees, one last month and one last week, did not distinguish between lawyers who brought suits early and those who became involved late and were rejected.
Sponsors of the tobacco legislation said today that they hoped the cap on legal fees would enhance the prospects of Senate passage of the bill soon.
But the legislation's chances are bleak in the House of Representatives, where Republican leaders have said they are unalterably opposed to the Senate bill. They have not offered a measure of their own, but they seem to favor dealing with teen-age smoking with the low-budget "just say no" approach that the Reagan Administration took to drug abuse.
The main interest of President Clinton, who favors strong anti-smoking legislation, is to get virtually any bills passed by the Senate and House so the matter can go to a conference committee to work out a final bill. Conference committees are where the White House has the most influence because that is where the threat of a Presidential veto is most meaningful.
In the Senate, Democrats are almost unanimously in favor of ending the debate on the tobacco bill, a procedure called cloture that requires 60 votes for approval in the 100-member chamber.
Republicans are split on the question. If Senator Lott proposes cloture, considered the prerogative of the majority leader, enough Republicans will probably go along to approve cloture. If that happens, the bill will surely be passed.
Republicans have voted solidly against cloture motions on the tobacco bill proposed by Democrats, considering them challenges to the Republican leadership.
Senator Lott has expressed serious reservations about the tobacco legislation, as have many other Republican senators. But Mr. Lott has also said repeatedly that the Senate needs to move on to other important bills like those that provide the money to run the Government.
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, the chief sponsor of the tobacco bill, said today that he hoped the resolution of the issue of lawyers' fees would provide the impetus for the Republican leadership to support cloture.
"It's time we made a decision on this bill," Mr. McCain said.
Democrats have said they will prevent the Senate from dealing with any other issue until the tobacco bill is voted up or down, and they seem to have the votes to carry out that threat.
The only remaining contentious amendment, Mr. McCain said, involves whether to end the Government's price-support program for tobacco growers and what kind of assistance to offer the farmers and communities whose economies are dependent on tobacco. Debate on those matters began today.
As the bill stands now, it would include fees that would raise cigarette prices by at least $1.10 a pack, give the Government new authority to regulate cigarette advertising and marketing and impose penalties on the tobacco companies if the rate of teen-age smoking did not fall to specified levels.
The bill would also give a tax break to married couples with incomes below $50,000 a year and create a new anti-drug program.
Voting on the amendment to limit lawyers' fees was stretched to 40 minutes, about twice as long as normal, as the two sides tried desperately to switch votes to tilt the issue their way.
At the end, Senator Gordon H. Smith, Republican of Oregon, who had voted against the amendment, was prevailed on by the Republican leadership to change his vote to "yes," and that provided the one-vote margin of victory.
Forty-five Republicans and four Democrats voted for the amendment.
Forty Democrats and eight Republicans, including Alfonse M. D'Amato of New York, voted against it.
Two Senators voted "present" because of family conflicts: Senator Lott, whose brother-in-law is the lead lawyer in Mississippi's suit against the tobacco industry, and Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, whose husband's law firm is involved in tobacco cases.
Today's vote was probably the final one on lawyers' fees in this round, but the matter will doubtless come up again before any tobacco bill is enacted.
The question of lawyers' fees is a highly partisan one and goes far beyond the tobacco issue. For years, trial lawyers have been among the Democrats' most loyal and generous supporters. Republicans, on the other hand, depend on business interests for political supports. These interests fear damage suits generally and are especially worried that trial lawyers will use the windfall from tobacco suits to finance suits in other areas.
In their suits against tobacco companies, many states and individuals retained private lawyers on a contingency basis, meaning that the lawyers got nothing if they lost in court but were entitled to a percentage of the damages if they won or if the suit was settled.
No one anticipated how large those fees might be. In Texas, for instance, the industry settled with the state for $15.3 billion, and the contract calls for lawyers to receive 15 percent. Lester Brickman, a professor at the Cardozo Law School at Yeshiva University who helped draft the Gorton amendment, was hired as an expert by the State of Texas. He concluded that the lawyers' fees would amount to $92,000 an hour based on their work product and the percentage claimed. But under the amendment, the lawyers would receive about $2,000 an hour based on the fact that the lawsuit was filed in 1996.
The amendment would allow lawyers who began litigation before 1995, when many put up their own money to bankroll the suits and when the prospect of winning seemed remote, to collect up to $4,000 an hour.
Those who became involved between the beginning of 1995 and April 1997, when secret negotiations began between the tobacco companies and states attorneys general, could get up to $2,000 an hour.
Lawyers who started cases between April 1997 and today could charge $1,000 an hour, and those who sign on after today could get no more than $500 an hour.
Some of the most prominent lawyers in the tobacco litigation, like Richard Scruggs of Pascagoula, Miss., who is Senator Lott's brother-in-law, and Ron Motley of Charleston, S.C., rank among those who would qualify for the $4,000-an-hour-fee because they became involved in the tobacco cases early on. Others, like Hugh Rodham Jr., Hillary Rodham Clinton's brother, would receive a lower hourly rate because they became involved later on.
But the hourly rates of even the most highly paid lawyers like Mr. Scruggs, who represented a number of states in the litigation, would vary significantly because many of those states did not file lawsuits until late in 1996 or in 1997.
Mr. Brickman estimated that the amendment would result in lawyer fee reductions of tens of billions of dollars in coming years. He said that he believed that the biggest losers would be lawyers in Florida and Texas who were seeking to enforce contingency agreements with states as well as those lawyers who filed tobacco cases in the past year.
Senator McCain argued that since Congress was deciding how to spend the money that the bill would raise from higher cigarette prices, it should limit the amount that would go to lawyers.
But Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, called the limits "a profound mistake" in that courts might feel free to award lawyers much more than they deserved. "Very often, what's intended as a cap becomes a floor," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN OF WASHINGTON (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN OF WASHINGTON (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LAW AND LEGISLATION; FILIBUSTERS AND DEBATE CURBS; LEGAL PROFESSION TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (91%); LAWYERS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LITIGATION (90%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (90%); FILIBUSTER (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); SMOKING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (85%); SMOKING BANS (78%); VETO (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (73%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); TOBACCO MFG (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; GORTON, SLADE (SEN); LOTT, TRENT (SEN); MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN) TRENT LOTT (89%); BILL CLINTON (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998



422 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: His Last Harangue;
After 30 Years as a Legislative Gadfly, Leichter Is Bowing Out

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 16

 BODY:
It is the time of year when Franz S. Leichter's colleagues in the State Senate ardently wish that he would disappear.
As the legislative session lurches to an end and lawmakers try to rush through piles of complicated bills, Mr. Leichter, a Democrat from the Upper West Side of Manhattan, starts reeling off questions. On the last day of session, he is usually unstoppable, challenging bill after bill as the hours creep past and his colleagues roll their eyes. 
 But lawmakers say they will suffer Mr. Leichter's last-minute tirades a little more gladly this year, because they will mark the end of an era. The session, which will probably end on Thursday, is his last. Mr. Leichter will retire in December after three decades in office, leaving the Legislature without one of its harshest critics and most staunchly liberal members.
Though his career as in-house gadfly has left him with few concrete legislative achievements, lawmakers say that without him the Democratic minority in the Senate will agitate less effectively and the Republican majority will breathe more easily.
For his part, Mr. Leichter says the public has become so mistrustful of government, and his colleagues on both sides of the aisle so lethargic, that he is finally too frustrated to press on.
Mr. Leichter, 67, entered politics at a time when leftist philosophies were fashionable in Manhattan, though not in Albany, and won an Assembly seat in 1968. He used the platform to speak out against the Vietnam War, and he called in vain for the legalization of marijuana and changes to the notoriously secretive budget process in Albany.
In 1974, he moved to the Senate, where he began writing damning reports on topics like campaign finance law, banking practices and corporate tax breaks.
All along, Mr. Leichter, whose district snakes from Chelsea in Manhattan to Riverdale in the Bronx, has inveighed against pork-barrel spending, back-room deal-making and the rigidly hierarchical leadership system in the Legislature, which he says "stifles initiative and productivity."
In relinquishing his seat, Mr. Leichter says, he is relinquishing hope that the system will change in his lifetime. "It's a tightly closed system that has crystallized and become even more of a way of life since I came here," Mr. Leichter said recently, eating baked fish at a restaurant near the State Capitol. "This is not a time to be in government. Continuing to do the same thing is not going to accomplish much at this point."
As a member of the minority party for his entire legislative career, Mr. Leichter has not been able to accomplish much, ever. But between his angry reports and his tireless voice, which almost never remains silent in the Senate chamber, he has frequently drawn attention to what he sees as Republican misdeeds. And on occasion, he has managed to bring about some measure of change.
After Mr. Leichter revealed in the early 1980's that the state's Job Incentive Board had given Tiffany & Company a $5 million tax credit for expanding its store on Fifth Avenue, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo abolished the incentive program. And his reports that criticized fund-raising practices by members of the New York City Board of Estimate helped persuade city officials to create an independent campaign finance board in 1988.
"Franz is unique because he attacks the process like an outsider," said Blair Horner, legislative director of New York Public Interest Research Group, which has worked with Mr. Leichter on consumer and environmental issues. "Instead of developing relationships with more powerful members, he has tried to generate public interest, which can have a much more powerful effect."
Although Mr. Leichter rarely stops hurling accusations and complaints, his colleagues describe him as one of the best-liked legislators in Albany. Even lawmakers who tangle with him on the Senate floor greet him warmly outside the chamber, and many even play tennis with him.
"Franz has a lot of respect across the board because he happens to be a warm and friendly person," said Senator Guy J. Velella, a Bronx Republican who was the subject of Mr. Leichter's wrath when he sponsored a bill to outlaw public defecation, which Mr. Leichter said discriminated against homeless people. "He's one of the last beatnik types there is, thank God. But he is a good man."
Other Republicans, like Senator Ronald B. Stafford of Plattsburgh, are less charitable, but hardly vindictive toward their colleague from the 30th District. "Well," Mr. Stafford said, "he's certainly indefatigable."
An immigrant from Austria whose mother died in a Nazi concentration camp, Mr. Leichter worked for Adlai E. Stevenson's Presidential campaign in 1956, while attending Harvard Law School. After graduation, he joined the reform wing of the Manhattan Democratic Party, which was challenging the Tammany Hall political machine that had controlled Democratic politics for decades.
"We were fighting against the boss-dominated party organization that existed in New York, which still exists, more or less, in Albany," Mr. Leichter said. "I liked the openness. I was very idealistic."
He raised enough hackles in the Assembly that the Republican majority tried to get rid of him, eliminating his seat when it redrew the state's legislative districts in 1972. Undeterred, Mr. Leichter moved his wife and two children seven blocks north to run in the new district.
Mr. Leichter decided to run for the Senate in 1974, when the Federal Government declared the reapportionment illegal and carved up his new district. The Republican majority again tried to thwart him, redrawing the Senate district so that he once again lived outside it. He moved a second time and astonished fellow lawmakers by defeating Senator Joseph Zaretzski, the Democratic minority leader, who had served for three decades.
Mr. Leichter would presumably have trouble drumming up votes in most other districts, though -- especially in recent years, with a Republican in the Governor's office and many voters favoring smaller government. In what his colleagues describe as a quintessential Leichter move, he introduced legislation in 1995 to repeal Gov. George E. Pataki's popular income tax cuts, saying they benefited only the wealthy. Not surprisingly, the bill died.
So why spend hours extolling bills that have no chance of passage, and challenging others that will pass no matter how loudly Mr. Leichter protests? "I just feel that is what I was sent up here to do," Mr. Leichter said. "To fight against that sense of futility. I have a visceral dislike for the idea of putting these bills through without discussion. My colleagues say, 'What's the use? You get up and debate the bill and you get three votes against it.' But if nothing else, I want to know at least that I voted right."
In appearance, Mr. Leichter is more neatnik than beatnik, wearing double-breasted suits, starched shirts and glasses with scholarly frames. He has worked for a law firm on Park Avenue since 1988, specializing in international corporate litigation. He likes movies about politics, books about economics and Wagnerian operas.
He does not talk about his wife, Nina, who suffered from depression and committed suicide in 1995 by jumping out a window of their apartment on Riverside Drive.
Even his friends describe Mr. Leichter as a workaholic, and while he is leaving the Legislature, he has no intention of fading from view. He has sent his resume to Washington, where he is a candidate for a seat on the Federal Housing Finance Board. He is also considering teaching or working with advocacy groups.
Although Mr. Leichter's final legislative session has been one of the most uneventful in years, he has managed to carp with his usual flair. He introduced a campaign finance bill and has pressed for a bill that would speed the creation of Hudson River Park, which would stretch from Battery Park to 59th Street in Manhattan.
But over all, Mr. Leichter sums up the 1998 legislative session as depressingly stagnant, with lawmakers driven by polls and partisanship. "The paucity of new programs and ideas, whether they come from the right or the left, shows how dispirited people are," Mr. Leichter said. "I think we can say that the Legislature is brain dead."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In 1972, Mr. Leichter, then an assemblyman, protested slack subway service on the Broadway IRT line. (Neal Boenzi/The New York Times); State Senator Franz S. Leichter, sitting at Broadway and 107th Street, has been a thorn in Republican sides since 1968. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)
 
"Favorite Windmills"
Franz S. Leichter has crusaded for a number of doomed or unpopular measures in his legislative career. Following is a brief sampling.
 
LEGAL MARIJUANA -- Introduced several bills in the 1970's to legalize marijuana, and insisted that the Rockefeller drug laws were too harsh. One measure would have created a state marijuana control authority to license growers and distributors and would have allowed a certain strength of marijuana to be sold in liquor stores.
 
TRUTH IN BUDGETING -- Repeatedly tried to force the Legislature to itemize its own budget so the public would know exactly how much individual lawmakers were spending on staffs and expense accounts.
 
HIGHER TAXES -- Tried in 1995 to repeal Gov. George E. Pataki's popular income tax cuts, saying they benefited only wealthy New Yorkers.
 
CAMPAIGN FINANCE LIMITS -- Pressed a number of changes, most recently a bill to set strict spending limits for state races and provide public funds for candidates who agreed to limit private contributions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BRONX REPUBLICAN (63%); STATE SENATE (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE SENATE (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); DECRIMINALIZATION (73%); BUDGETS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (63%); RESTAURANTS (60%); CANNABIS (50%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); CORPORATE TAX (50%); 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY; LEICHTER, FRANZ S (SEN) FRANZ S LEICHTER (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998



423 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
China Frets About Yen, Fanning Talk of Its Own Devaluation

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, June 16

 BODY:
As if the falling yen were not causing enough heartache in Asia, investors here and abroad are now fretting about another potential crisis: the devaluation of the Chinese currency.
China's Finance Minister issued a pointed warning today that the Asian crisis could destabilize its currency. China has so far refused to devalue the yuan, which is also called the renminbi, even after a tide of devaluations swept through Asia last fall. But there were new signs today that the persistent weakness in the Japanese yen was sorely testing Beijing's resolve. 
 The Finance Minister, Xiang Huaicheng, said in an article today in The People's Daily, the Communist Party paper, that China's struggle to meet its economic growth target could "increase pressure on the stability of the renminbi." Later, China called on Japan to show the "courage and wisdom" to halt the yen's slide.
Today's statements were the latest in a chorus of complaints by Chinese officials about the declining value of the yen. And they have kindled fears throughout Asia that Beijing could be laying the groundwork for a devaluation of its own. "When so many Chinese officials come out, they mean business," said Guonan Ma, co-head of economic research at Salomon Smith Barney in Hong Kong, "If the yen continues to fall, they will reach a breaking point."
To be sure, most analysts still doubt that China plans to devalue its currency in the short term. It is more insulated than other Asian countries from the pressures of the global marketplace. With President Clinton scheduled to arrive next week, China also has compelling political reasons not to tamper with its currency.
Still, the sheer number of statements by Chinese officials has made investors nervous. The growth rate of China's economy is slowing, exports are declining, and as the yen drops, pressure increases to devalue the yuan. Some analysts think that a Chinese devaluation would kick off a new wave of tit-for-tat devaluations around the region -- leaving Asia's currencies in tatters and its economies in an even more precarious state.
"An ill-considered devaluation could start another round of instability," said Miron Mushkat, director of strategy at Indocam Asia Asset Management in Hong Kong. "China's devaluation would push us back to square one."
The renewed fears of a Chinese devaluation came on a day when Asia's financial markets zigzagged sharply in the yen's wake. After plunging on Monday to some of their deepest lows in years, stocks rebounded this morning as the yen briefly strengthened against the United States dollar. When it retreated in the afternoon, shares also dropped. At the end of the trading session, most of the markets were down, though Hong Kong's benchmark index, the Hang Seng, gained seven-eighths of 1 percent. Hong Kong stocks rose sharply on Wednesday morning, up nearly 4 percent.
The yen, after seesawing on rumors of Japanese Government intervention, traded at 144.56 to the United States dollar late in the day here. It settled later in New York at 143.47, an improvement from 146.15 late Monday. The seesawing continued on Wednesday, with the yen drifting back to 143.89 at midmorning.
The Chinese yuan was unchanged at 8.2798 to the dollar, but only after China's central bank intervened to support it. China also lowered interest rates for dollar-denominated deposits, a step that could foreshadow a general cut in interest rates.
That would be welcomed by Chinese companies, which are battling the now-familiar Asian affliction of slackening domestic demand, tight credit and dwindling exports. But despite the persistent rumors, it is far from certain that a devaluation would be a tonic for China's mixture of economic problems.
In fact, several economists contend that it could hurt. For one, it would seriously erode confidence in Hong Kong, which has been struggling to shore up its own currency in recent days. Although the Hong Kong dollar is linked to the American dollar, it is psychologically supported by China, since last July the sovereign authority.
For all the complaints about the yen's value, it is also not clear that it affects China all that much, at least not at current levels. China and Japan have few overlapping export industries -- unlike, say, Japan and South Korea. "People are making a link between the yen and the yuan, but there is actually very little link," said Dong Tao, a senior regional economist at Credit Suisse First Boston.
He noted that China actually benefited from a slumping yen in one respect. Beijing has an estimated $40 billion in foreign debt denominated in yen. As the yen depreciates against the dollar, China's debt burden lightens.
Of course, a weak yen hurts China insofar as it pulls the rest of Asia into a deeper economic mire. Asian markets, including Japan's, account for 43 percent of China's exports. And those countries are buying fewer Chinese-made textiles, farm products, toys or low-cost electronics. After increasing 20 percent last year, China's exports declined by an estimated 1.5 percent in May.
The decline in exports will make it difficult for China to meet its goal of 8 percent economic growth in 1998. Most economists now expect Chinese output to grow 6 percent to 7 percent this year. The slowing growth means mushrooming unemployment, and with it, the possibility of social unrest. Some analysts said this could eventually force Beijing's hand.
A key difference between China and most other Asian countries is that its currency is not fully convertible and is therefore not vulnerable to speculative attacks. Unlike many of its Asian neighbors, China is also running a comfortable trade surplus and has $140 billion in foreign reserves.
For China, whether to devalue its currency is in part a political decision, according to some analysts. By maintaining a stable currency, Beijing has become an island of calm in the Asian economic storm. Mr. Mushkat of Indocam said China had inherited the mantle of economic leadership from a troubled Japan.
Indeed, he said the noises coming from Beijing were the sign of a rising economic power beginning to flex its muscles. "It's not so much laying the groundwork but keeping their options open," he said. "China is playing the game, while Japan doesn't even understand what the game is." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NQE (AMEX) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); ASIA (98%); HONG KONG (94%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); HUNAN, CHINA (73%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; CHINA (99%); ASIA (98%); HONG KONG (94%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); HUNAN, CHINA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS JAPANESE YEN (92%); CURRENCIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); DEVALUATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); POLITICS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; XIANG HUAICHENG (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998



424 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Plans to Continue Developing and Selling Missiles

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 16

 BODY:
North Korea declared today that it would continue to develop missiles and sell them abroad, rejecting United States suggestions that it curb its missile program.
"We will continue developing, testing and deploying missiles," the official Korean Central News Agency said in a dispatch. 
 The United States, Japan and other countries have long been concerned by the North Korean missile program. North Korean missiles deployed at home can already strike much of Japan, and officials say the recent Indian and Pakistani nuclear tests have highlighted the risks of the spread of missiles that might be fitted to carry nuclear warheads.
United States and South Korean officials are to meet next month to discuss proposals to ease the economic embargo against the Communist Government of North Korea.
President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea has urged that the American sanctions be lifted. But the United States has been cautious, hinting that a criterion for easing sanctions might be a North Korean willingness to curtail its missile program.
Today North Korea rejected that idea, saying that it might freeze its program, but only after the United States had lifted the sanctions.
"If the United States really wants to prevent our missile export," the news agency said, "it should lift the economic embargo" and make compensation for losses "caused by discontinued missile export."
In what appears to be its most public acknowledgment of its willingness to export missiles, the agency added, "Our missile export is aimed at obtaining foreign money we need at present."
North Korea said that its missiles were defensive, intended to protect the country from United States missiles, and that because of the embargo it has few ways of earning currency other than exporting missiles.
North Korea's Rodong missiles are similar to the Soviet Scuds and can apparently reach much of Japan, although probably not Tokyo, and could in theory carry a nuclear warhead, military experts said.
Western experts disagree about whether the missiles are accurate enough to pose much of a military threat. But Japanese civilians worry about the possibility that the missiles might miss the military bases that they are presumably aimed at.
North Korea has also been developing a missile, the Taepodong, that would have a much greater range, of 2,000 miles or 3,000 miles. But some experts said they believed that it still needed years of development.
The United States has held periodic talks with North Korea, trying to work out an agreement under which the North would curb its program.
In Washington, Kenneth Bacon, the Pentagon spokesman, said today that the United States was disappointed by the lack of progress in talks with the North Koreans.
"We're continuing to work with them on that," he said.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); JAPAN (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); INDIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); JAPAN (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); INDIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: MISSILES; ARMS SALES ABROAD; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (93%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (92%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ARMS TRADE (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998



425 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: Fuel Cell Will Supply All Power to a Test House

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 14

 BODY:
For the first time, an energy technology called a fuel cell will supply all the power to a suburban house, another sign that the innovation is on the verge of breakthrough as an economical alternative to traditional energy sources.
The idea of fuel cells, which convert liquid fuel into electricity through a chemical reaction rather than combustion, has been around for more than 100 years. But until recently, fuel cells were so expensive that they were was practical only for specialized use on space missions. But the cells being tested now are powerful, flexible and reliable. And although they are still expensive, confidence that new designs can be mass-produced at reasonable costs is growing. 
 On Wednesday, a team of engineers will cut the electricity from the local utility to a brick ranch-style house in Latham, N.Y., and switch on a device that looks more like a home central air-conditioning unit than the small chemical plant it really is.
Developments in the past few weeks include the first commercial sale of a fuel cell for remote power (to the New Jersey Department of Transportation, for a traffic warning sign) and the first street-ready car powered by a fuel cell (built by students at Humboldt State University in California). A former nuclear weapons scientist at Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico is experimenting with a tiny cell that converts methanol into enough current to run a laptop computer or a cellular telephone. And in April, Ford put $420 million into Ballard Power Systems, a fuel cell company in Vancouver, British Columbia, in which Daimler-Benz already has a major investment.
Officials at the Energy Department, which is helping to pay for the test in Latham, near Albany, say they have high hopes that within a few years thousands of homes will be drawing electric power from fuel cells, cutting pollution and fuel consumption.
"In the last year, we've seen significant breakthroughs," said Federico F. Pena, the Energy Secretary, in a telephone interview. "We're going to see fuel cells in homes, cars and other uses much sooner than we had predicted."
Concerning the Latham project, Dan W. Reicher, the assistant secretary for energy efficiency and renewable energy, said, "The launch of a fuel-cell powered house is up there with the introduction of the electric refrigerator, the room air-conditioner and the fluorescent light."
"The big difference is that the fuel cell could turn the house into a full-time energy producer instead of a consumer of electricity," Mr. Reicher said.
What has made experts more optimistic is the progress scientists have made in tinkering with the fuel cell's gossamer-thin membranes, which look like plastic food wrap or aluminum foil. The membranes are crucial in facilitating a basic chemical reaction -- the combination of oxygen and hydrogen to make water -- into the basis of an energy revolution. W.L. Gore & Company has taken its signature product, Gore-Tex, and put it into the membranes of fuel cells, including the one in Latham, in a way that many researchers say has great promise.
Jonathan H. Leonard, the program supervisor for fuel cells at California's South Coast Air Quality Management District, one of many government agencies eagerly watching the research, said, "Splitting water into hydrogen and oxygen is a simple process that takes electricity. Combining them to make water and electricity, well, you don't get much simpler than that. I don't think there are many doubters."
Certainly not Michael M. Walsh, a mechanical engineer who is a consultant to Plug Power, the company running the Latham test. Mr. Walsh lives in the Plug Power-owned house five days a week with, among other devices, a stereo, a personal computer and a clock radio that wakes him in the morning. They will operate the same, whatever the electricity source, he said, and people inside the house "won't know whether we are running on the grid or not."
But for all the breakthroughs, fuel cells are too expensive for everyday use. Car companies, which would probably be the biggest users of a cost-effective fuel cell, say the cost is roughly 100 times more per horsepower than an internal combustion engine. Chrysler, for example, figures that each car-sized fuel-cell stack it buys costs $170,000. And running houses on fuel cells is substantially more expensive than relying on power from conventional utility plants.
Plug Power will not say what its prototype cost, arguing that the figure is about as relevant as the cost of producing the first automobile of a model year; it is astronomical but allows the production of thousands more units at lower cost. Plug Power predicts that it can commercialize fuel cells for houses by 2000, at a cost of $3,000 to $5,000 each. Detroit Edison, a part-owner of Plug Power, plans to purchase 30,000 to 50,000 units.
A New Jersey company, H-Power, also hopes for mass sales. In March the company made what it described as the first unsubsidized, fully commercial sale of a fuel cell, for a trailer-mounted highway sign, the kind that commonly warns of construction ahead. The company will supply 65 of them for $759,000.
"It's an arms-length sale, with no subsidies, with a warranty, and all the aspects of a commercial sale," said Arthur Kaufman, an executive at H-Power.
In another application of fuel cells, Robert G. Hockaday, a researcher on leave from Los Alamos National Laboratory, bombarded a thin plastic film with neutron radiation to form pores where the hydrogen-oxygen reaction can take place. He predicted he could keep a cellular phone on standby for more than a month on two ounces of methanol. But he does not yet have a prototype that generates enough power in a small enough volume.
A big part of the expense is that fuel cells are hand-assembled, mostly by Ph.D.'s, because there is still no mass market. That, in turn, is because the components still cost too much, but elements of the equation are changing, thanks to work being done in various laboratories. One step has been to reduce the amount of platinum, a catalyst in the chemical process, to one-fifth of former levels.
Another, accomplished by the Gore company, has been to strengthen the gel-like heart of the system. The heart, in the fuel cell used in Latham and in those being explored for cars, is a proton exchange membrane. Anything positively charged, like the proton that is the nucleus of a hydrogen atom, jumps from one side of the membrane to the other.
When a hydrogen atom, consisting of one proton and one electron, is pressed against the membrane, the proton goes through and the electron does not. That creates a positive charge on one side of the membrane and a negative charge on the other; wire them together, and electricity flows.
DuPont's membrane, sold under the trade name Nafion, does not readily transport the hydrogen ions from one side to the other until it is wet. It takes time for the water that is produced to suffuse the membrane and, once it is wet, the membrane loses two-thirds of its strength. Because fuel cells are typically arranged in "stacks," with layers of membranes, fixing a flaw is difficult.
But fuel cell experts say Gore has taken a step to solve the problems of cost, fragility and start-up time. Embedding Gore-Tex, the material it sells to textile mills for use in windbreakers and caps, produces a membrane that is 20 microns, about half as thick as predecessors. It is cheaper to buy, gets wet faster, and lets protons slide through more quickly, but it is also stronger.
There are other areas for improvement. Currently, a square centimeter of membrane produces about half a watt of power. Raising the power would reduce the number of layers, the number of plates and the number of wiring connections.
The consensus among fuel cell experts is that with growing activity and the promise of mass production, the problems can be solved. People who worked on the membrane and on the problem of platinum, which is used to provide sites where the hydrogen-oxygen reaction can occur, are moving on to other troublesome components, said John B. O'Sullivan, the manager of research on distributed generation at the Electric Power Research Institute, a utility consortium in Palo Alto, Calif.
"My concern is no longer, can we make this stuff work," Mr. O'Sullivan said. "It's, can we make it work cheaply enough."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A consultant, Dan O. Jones, left, checked a fuel-cell system at a house in Latham, N.Y., yesterday with the project manager, Richard Maddaloni. (David Jennings for The New York Times)
 
Diagram: "HOW IT WORKS: The Fabric Heart Of an Energy Cell"
Scientists are now using Gore-Tex, the waterproof fabric used in foul-weather gear, to make ultra-thin membranes for fuel cells. Here is how a membrane functions.
 
Hydrogen, which is made of a proton and an electron, is channeled to the fuel cell through these panels.
 
Electricity is produced when the plate strips away the electrons and directs them through a circuit.
 
The protons pass through the mem 2/3brane. The thinner the membrane, the more easily protons pass.
 
Protons and electrons join with oxygen and form water.
 
(Source: W.L. Gore & Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BLDP (NASDAQ) (58%); BLD (TSX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT & COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); SIC3629 ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIAL APPARATUS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (54%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (54%); 

COMPANY: ENERGY DEPARTMENT BALLARD POWER SYSTEMS INC (58%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (54%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY DEPARTMENT LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (54%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATHAM (NY); UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (54%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (54%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; FUEL CELLS FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (94%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); FUEL CELL MFG (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (87%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (75%); HVAC SYSTEMS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); ALCOHOLS (73%); SPACE EXPLORATION (70%); INTERVIEWS (66%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (64%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (53%); MILITARY WEAPONS (51%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L; PENA, FEDERICO F (SEC) MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998



426 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Aiding New Home Buyers

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: ALBANY

 BODY:
A $50 million low-interest mortgage program to aid first-time, low-income home buyers has been started by the State of New York Mortgage Agency.
The program is intended to make home ownership affordable to families in New York who earn 70 percent or less of the median incomes in their areas. In the New York City area, as well as in Rockland and Putnam Counties, the threshold will be set at 90 percent because of higher housing costs. 
 The 30-year mortgages will carry a 4.5 percent fixed interest rate, officials said yesterday.
Prospective home buyers may get more information by calling the mortgage agency at (800) 382-4663.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MORTGAGE AGENCY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MORTGAGE AGENCY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998



427 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 3392 words

HEADLINE: WARY FLOCK: A special report.;
China's Churches: Glad, and Bitter, Tidings

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: NANJING

 BODY:
New Bibles stream forth from a computerized printing press in this onetime southern capital at a rate of two and a half million a year, for sale to Christians all over China.
Since opening in 1988, the publishing company, a joint venture of the Government-approved Protestant Church and a global charity, United Bible Societies, has shipped out 18 million inexpensive Bibles, an astonishing turn in a country that only a few decades ago tried to stamp out religion for good. 
 The Bibles are quickly bought and eagerly used. In downtown Nanjing on any Sunday morning at St. Paul's Church, one of the city's seven legal Protestant churches, the pews overflow with more than 1,000 worshipers at each of two services, while hundreds more watch from another building on closed-circuit television.
With hymns, a sermon and closing recitation of the Lord's Prayer, the services here and at thousands of other churches around the country have the rhythms of mainstream Protestant services anywhere. Like many urban churches, this one has a preponderance of older women, some of whom were Christian before the Communist takeover in 1949, but around the country many men and women, young and old, are embracing Jesus Christ. Such open, joyous displays of worship were unusual in the 1950's, as the Communists reshaped China, and unthinkable during Mao's Cultural Revolution of 1966-1976, when churches were burned and those Christians who were not jailed could only hold clandestine prayer meetings, and dared not own a Bible.
Yet even as Bibles flow and churchgoers worship, at least scores of Protestant and Catholic leaders are held in in labor camps or jails for refusing to bow to Government control. While the confirmed number of imprisoned Christians appears to be lower than is often asserted abroad, their travails are a telling sign that religion here is not truly free.
Just last month, security agents reportedly razed an unapproved Catholic church in Fujian, while in Hebei, to the north, they arrested a pro-Vatican bishop who was too energetically promoting his faith. Last fall, the leader of a fervent born-again sect known as the Weepers was sentenced to a three-year term for disturbing public order.
Millions of other Christians who reject the official church must practice their faith with a wary eye, and even those who embrace the Government cannot publicly proclaim or spread their faith as they might wish to.
The charge of religious persecution -- of Christians and also Tibetan Buddhists and some Muslim groups -- has emerged as perhaps the most potent human rights issue in Chinese-American relations, one President Clinton cannot avoid as he prepares to visit Beijing.
Mr. Clinton is under pressure in Congress to raise the issue. In March, as the House passed a human-rights resolution, Representative Chris Smith, Republican of New Jersey, declared that Beijing's tight control over religion "is totally unacceptable and ought to be condemned."
Critics in the West point to the restrictions and repression as evidence of systematic persecution, while the Government's defenders here point, instead, to the relative freedom most Christians now enjoy.
Paradoxically, the rising outcry abroad comes as Christianity in China, especially evangelical Protestantism, is growing explosively. The Rev. Don Argue, recent president of the National Association of Evangelicals in the United States, says China may be experiencing "the single greatest Revival in the history of Christianity."
Much of that growth has occurred with official acquiescence, and though they remain a small minority in a giant country, millions of Chinese people like Zhang Linmei, a 32-year-old worshiper at St. Paul's, find the same comfort in religion that Christians do anywhere, without worrying much about politics.
"I feel life is meaningless in society at large," Ms. Zhang said after services as she picked up her 5-year-old daughter, dressed in her finest, from Sunday school.
"This is the only reliable place in my life," Ms. Zhang added.
"The situation for religion is in many ways the best it's been since 1949," said Richard Madsen, an expert on Chinese religion at the University of California at San Diego. Though the Government still controls their growth and closely monitors their activities, he said, the official churches enjoy more autonomy today than in the past.
Even the illegal churches -- unregistered Protestant churches and openly pro-Vatican Catholic groups -- function without serious trouble in many places, Dr. Madsen and others say. But those who refuse to pledge support to the Government and its apparatus of religious control, and those with unorthodox or ecstatic styles of worship, can face harsh repression. The situation is similar for other major religions here, including Buddhists and Muslims. Many believers now enjoy relative freedom, but Tibetan Buddhists who consider the Dalai Lama their leader face repression.
 
The History
After Repression, A Major Revival
In 1949, there were fewer than one million Protestants here. In 1979, three years after the end of the Cultural Revolution when Maoist mobs attacked churches and the homes of believers, only three Protestant churches were open in all of China.
Estimates of the number of Christians in China's population of 1.2 billion range from about 15 million to 35 million, or some believe, many more. Chinese church officials say there are 12 million Protestants, and outside experts like Dr. Madsen say the actual number may be at least 20 million and rising. More than 12,000 official Protestant churches are open and, again by official estimates, Christians without access to churches or professional pastors meet in some 25,000 homes or other meeting points. These estimates ignore groups that the Government regards as criminal, and are believed to understate the total greatly.
The legions of Protestants include new converts like Xu Wenju, a 74-year-old widow in Beijing who first attended a large official church in 1995 at the urging of a neighbor and, she says, found spiritual sustenance. She was soon baptized and now says that she feels healthier, and that her family has become more harmonious.
It includes those born into Christian families like Dr. Wu, a 75-year-old retired physician in Beijing who read the Bible at age 6 and has wanted to spread the Gospel ever since. Chafing at the controls of the official church, he was jailed for over a year in the 1950's, he said, and he still prefers a house church, as the illegal gatherings are known.
In 1992 the police came to his house and took his religious books and tapes, said Dr. Wu, who declined to give his full name. But they left him his personal Bible, telling him, "You can believe but you cannot preach."
It includes a 30-year-old economics student in Beijing, Ms. Li, who said a friend had introduced the Gospel to her. She, too, attends a small house church, not for political reasons but because, she said, "I think there is more a feeling of love, and more opportunity for fellowship."
Officials say Catholics now number four million, while outside researchers say the true total may be closer to 10 million, with many secretly accepting the Pope as the true head of their church.
The peculiar hybrid state of Christianity here reflects the general obsession of the Communist Party with control: virtually any organization, whether political or social or religious, must gain party approval.
The party is an officially atheist organization that asserts that religion will eventually wither away. But in a policy spelled out in the early 1980's, the Government officially guarantees freedom of religion -- within prescribed boundaries including a required allegiance to the state, adherence to certain styles of worship and limits on church construction, evangelizing and the baptism of children, among other rules.
For those willing to accommodate, the 1990's seem a golden time.
"From our perspective, now is the best period ever for implementing the policy of religious freedom," said Han Wenzao, who as president of the China Christian Council is the national leader of the official Protestant church and a prime link to the Communist Government. "The criterion should be, is the word of God being propagated or not? It is and it's good."
Mr. Han, who is 75 and has his office in the Jinling Union Seminary of Nanjing, says he became a devout Christian at a missionary college though he was never ordained. He helped create the official, "patriotic" Protestant church here during the period after the Communist takeover in 1949, when, he says, it was politically necessary to repudiate the "imperialist" sponsorship of foreign missionaries. The willing believers joined in a generic, nondenominational church.
Mr. Han and other official leaders are bitterly denounced as sell-outs and "fake Christians" by some who reject the notion of saluting an atheistic state, and who often suffered terribly for refusing to cooperate.
Yuan Xiangchen, also known as Allen Yuan, 84, is one of the best-known leaders of the house church movement. He simply says: "The head of the church is not any agency or person. The head of the Church is Christ."
"The official church is led by the Communists," he added. "That's why we worship at home."
Mr. Yuan, like many of the more defiant figures here, spent more than 20 years in jail for his beliefs, and in recent years has faced on-and-off curbs on his travel and work. At present, he is allowed to preach to up to several dozen followers in a dingy room, with a picture of the Rev. Billy Graham tacked on the wall, in an alleyway in the center of Beijing -- one of dozens such illegal gatherings that Beijing authorities suffer to exist, under a tight watch.
In an interview last month, Mr. Yuan said he was forbidden to collect money from worshipers, and he added that controls were often more stringent on house churches in rural areas. More recently, security officials have warned him not to speak to reporters.
 
The Politics
Beijing Accommodates To a Rising Tide
 While for those in prison the situation is all too stark, the religious picture in China today is often painted in shades of gray.
The printing press outside Nanjing can produce millions of Bibles, for example, a clear boon to the church. But the press, the Nanjing Amity Printing Company, must reach agreement each year with the Government's Religious Affairs Bureau over how many Bibles it can actually print -- well below its capacity -- and the books can only be sold in churches, not in bookstores.
Yet officials have also allowed the press to supply more than 1.2 million Bibles, through an American missionary group led by Ned Graham, a son of Billy Graham, to unapproved house churches.
In the 1980's, as religious activity began to recover here, outside evangelical groups had begun smuggling many Bibles into the country in suitcases. One of the major smugglers was Doug Sutphen.
Then, Mr. Sutphen's East Gates Ministries, from the Seattle area, negotiated a deal in which it bought Nanjing Bibles to distribute outside official channels. He later handed over the organization to Ned Graham.
"I see no need for smuggling any more," said Mr. Sutphen, who now dreams of some day arranging -- legally -- for a Christian television station in China. Mr. Graham has not responded to requests for an interview.
To illustrate another gray area: officially, evangelizing is forbidden in China. The definition has become blurred, though, as officials struggle to co-opt rapidly spreading Protestantism, especially in rural areas.
During a surprise visit several weeks ago to the Saint James Protestant Church in Yichang, a city on the Yangtze River in Hubei, the pastor, the Rev. Zhu Zhigao, said that tens of thousands of people in the surrounding mountains had become Christian through person-to-person contact or under the influence of Hong Kong radio programs.
So his church has brought in groups of rural Christian leaders, two groups of 40 each in the last year, for two-month training sessions, to serve as lay ministers in their villages. Among other things, he shows them imported videotapes about Christianity. And he distributes Bibles from the Nanjing press.
One of the Government's greatest fears is the breakaway emergence of an unorthodox sect that might seriously challenge public order -- at the extreme, something like the Taiping Rebellion of the mid-1800's, which began with a charismatic Christian sect leader, and eventually conquered half of China, with Nanjing as its capital.
From the Government's perspective, then, giving mainstream, if limited, theological training to leaders of a budding rural church is preferable to letting them forge their own paths, possibly into what the Government considers illegal cults.
"I feel very free to spread the Gospel," said Mr. Zhu, who also serves on local Governmental bodies.
The Catholics have a seemingly clear litmus test: do they accept the leadership of the National Patriotic Catholic Movement and its selection of bishops, or do they, like Catholics in other countries, reserve those roles for the Pope? Some of the most pro-Vatican bishops and priests are persecuted or jailed. Yet there are many permutations.
Many priests in the official church say they remain privately loyal to the Vatican. The Vatican, for its part, says that while many newer priests and bishops are not legally ordained, they are true Catholics with the spiritual power to celebrate Mass and perform other sacred duties -- "valid but not licit" is the tortured phrase used by the Vatican to describe their status. The Vatican has even granted secret approval to some official church leaders, Dr. Madsen says.
For many years, to help meet the acute shortage of theology teachers, China has allowed groups of Vatican-ordained priests, from Hong Kong, Taiwan and elsewhere, to teach in official seminaries in China, according to church officials in Hong Kong. Groups of official Chinese priests have also studied in the Vatican-run seminary in Hong Kong.
 
The Repression
Jail Still Awaits The Defiant
And still the repression of some Christians continues, to different degrees among the country's far-flung regions.
The number of people in jails or labor camps for their religious activity is a matter of dispute, but loose assertions abroad that thousands are in prison appear to be exaggerated.
Two major human rights groups, Amnesty International, based in London, and Human Rights Watch, in New York, both say -- while admitting to deep uncertainties -- that they find solid evidence only that scores of people are now in some form of long-term detention for their Christian activities: several dozen Catholic leaders, and a similar number of Protestants, are thought to be held.
Imprisonment is increasingly reserved for major organizers and leaders, while brief detentions and fines have been the more common penalty levied against illegal Christian groups, said Arlette Laduguie of Amnesty International. But she warned that information even on some recent large-scale crackdowns, like the arrests of hundreds of Roman Catholics last year in Jiangxi Province as part of a campaign against a powerful illegal movement, may not emerge for many months.
Nina Shea, director of the Center for Religious Freedom in Washington and one of the sharpest American critics of China, said that on the basis of various field reports her group believes that at least 500 Christian leaders are serving sentences, while at least another 500 followers are detained at any given time, justifying her published statements that thousands are under arrest.
Conflict and arrests may have intensified in the mid-1990's as the Government, faced with an explosive spread of Christian groups and a shortage of reliable pastors, made a strong new push to require all religious groups to register with authorities. Those refusing have often been hounded.
While the registration drive is notorious among the house churches and their international supporters, it is actually good for Christianity, asserted Mr. Han, the official Protestant leader.
"When you register, your legal status is protected," Mr. Han said. "That's something we wanted," he said -- to provide a defense against the lawless persecution seen in the past. The argument is rejected by those who just wish to be left alone.
Mr. Han admitted that local officials sometimes improperly harass the church, and said he had on several occasions called on national authorities to rectify a local problem.
"At the grass-roots or country level, there are still some people who cannot understand the central Government's policy of religious freedom," he said. He adds that local officials sometimes have trouble distinguishing cults, which are banned, from genuine Christian groups.
On that question, the definition of a cult, opinions differ. Mr. Han's sympathies do not extend to the likes of Xu Yongze, the Weepers leader recently sentenced to three years.
Mr. Xu's followers are said to cry, sometimes for days, until they find a vision. Mr. Han said Mr. Xu's views were heresy, caused mental disorders and disturbances to neighbors, and were a violation of the law.
The very drive for conformity is part of the problem, rights advocates say. In its effort to define acceptable beliefs and limit how religion can be publicly expressed, China violates international standards of religious freedom as laid out in international charters and resolutions.
"The right to believe what you want and the right to publicly manifest that belief when and where and with whom you want is what's at stake," said Mickey Siegal, a Human Rights Watch researcher in New York.
Another problem altogether is discrimination even against legal Christians, who usually cannot hold senior positions in Government or the vast state-run economy. This reflects a more fundamental trait of China: high office is still almost entirely reserved for members of the Communist Party -- who are not supposed to adopt Christianity or any other religion.
 
The Contrast
Evangelical Fire, Official Moderation
Recent Sunday services at St. Paul's Church in Nanjing exemplified the moderate, hybrid style of Protestantism that is promoted by Government agencies. In what could have been a scene at an American Presbyterian or Lutheran church, the members shared prayers and the Apostle's Creed, and they sang hymns with the robed choir. The recited verses from Acts and Psalms, and watched as six men from an ethnic minority group in Yunan, here on an exchange, sang a hymn in thanks for the hospitality.
They listened to a pleasant 20-minute sermon by the middle-aged Pastor Lin De'en, telling the story of a man who on his deathbed finally appreciated the Christianity of his wife and son, and concluding with an ode to the value of personal worship: it will help you become modest, honest, patient and love one another.
Some of the house churches, in contrast, have the fiery spirit and orations of a revival meeting, the passion fed by a shared sense of persecution. Some also have links with foreign evangelists who slip into China, in unknown numbers, to exhort their brethren, sometimes with just the kinds of messages the Government most abhors.
At a recent house church service in a central Chinese city that, to protect the preacher, cannot be identified, two such missionaries, an Asian woman and a European man, showed up unannounced and were given the podium.
"The early Christians were persecuted too," the Asian said. "We all must go out and spread the word!"
"We must take the word of Jesus to Tibet and Xinjiang," she said, referring to the mainly Buddhist and Muslim border regions.
The European man took over. "They burn down a church every week, but the church is not made of wood," he said. "Let us go out and plant one million house churches," he said to the crowd of perhaps 50. "It will turn China upside down! God give us China or we die!"
The Chinese pastor took over, his air a bit more moderate. "It's true, we should all go out and start new house churches," he said. But he added, "If you go to the official church, then don't come here."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 20, 1998, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
Because of a transmission error, a front-page picture on Wednesday showing a church choir in Nanjing, China, was printed in mirror image. The choir leader actually stood at the right, and the characters behind the choir and beneath the cross said, "Emmanuel," or "God with us."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At St. Paul's Church in Nanjing, China, Christians from Yunnan sang hymns in their local dialect. (Mark Leong/Matrix, for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Workers at the Nanjing Amity Printing Company checked and stacked Bibles. The plant can produce millions a year, but it is allowed to print considerably fewer. Chinese Christians sang hymns at St. Paul's Church in Nanjing. Despite continued repression of illegal congregations, Protestantism is gaining ground rapidly in China. (Mark Leong/Matrix, for The New York Times)(pg. A10)
 
Chart: "Christianity's Tempestuous History in China"
1500's -- Jesuit missionaries arrive, establishing a Roman Catholic presence in China and making inroads at the Ming court.
1807 -- First Protestant missionary arrives, from Britain.
1840's -- The Opium War with Britain leads to official tolerance of Protestant and Catholic missionary activities.
1850 -- A Christian-influenced cult leader organizes the Taiping Rebellion, which nearly brings down the Chinese empire.
1900 -- The Boxer Rebellion, an anti-Christian and anti-Western uprising, is quelled by foreign troops. Missionary activity goes on.
1911 -- Sun Yat-sen, a Christian, and other revolution- aries oust the Qing Dynasty.
1949 -- Communists under Mao Zedong take over. Missionaries are expelled and official patriotic churches are founded. Others are repressed.
1966 -- The Cultural Revolution begins, led by Mao. Under attack, open religious activity ceases; many Christians are jailed.
1976 -- Mao dies.
1978 -- Deng Xiaoping loosens restrictions on religious practices.
1980's -- Christianity spreads, but repression of pro-Vatican Catholic churches and un-official Protestant churches continues.
1994 -- The Govern- ment tries to force illegal churches to register; official
churches thrive. (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report; Chronology

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); HOLY SEE (92%); TIBET (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (92%); JIANGSU, CHINA (90%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); FUJIAN, CHINA (58%); HEBEI, CHINA (58%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; ; CHINA (98%); HOLY SEE (92%); TIBET (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (92%); JIANGSU, CHINA (90%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); FUJIAN, CHINA (58%); HEBEI, CHINA (58%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY; CHURCH-STATE RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (96%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (93%); CHRONOLOGIES (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (86%); HUMAN RIGHTS (83%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); CHURCH & STATE (72%); WOMEN (72%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (71%); ARRESTS (69%); PRISONS (69%); SENTENCING (64%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (62%); POLITICS (60%); PUBLISHING (57%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK BILL CLINTON (65%); CHRIS SMITH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998



428 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section G; Page 8; Column 4; Circuits 

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Virtual-Classes Trend Alarms Professors

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY 

 BODY:
ABOUT 850 professors at the University of Washington have signed an open letter to Gov. Gary Locke to say they are worried about the enthusiasm he and one of his advisers are showing for instruction via CD-ROM's and the Internet.
The teachers worry that Washington State will be too quick to embrace the idea of the virtual, on-line university to cut costs and jobs. They say they see some disturbing national trends in that direction, citing the results of a roundtable of university professors and presidents brought together by the consulting arm of the Coopers & Lybrand financial services company. A white paper issued after the conference in July said that "instructional software could easily substitute for campus-based instruction or at least be a substantial part of the delivery system" and that the creation of only 25 on-line courses could serve about 80 percent of the undergraduate enrollment in core courses. 
 The faculty members' letter, which they plan to deliver next week, urges Governor Locke to "support learning as a human and social practice, an enrichment of soul and mind, the entitlement of all citizens in a democracy, and not a profit-making commodity to be offered on the cheapest terms to the highest bidder."
College professors are facing great upheaval as policymakers talk about using the Internet to modernize academia. With the arrival of the World Wide Web, video streaming, multimedia CD-ROM's and computer-assisted research, students now have easy access to more facts than scholars a few decades ago ever imagined, and those changes have made some administrators and taxpayers view a classroom lecture as an inefficient mode of imparting knowledge from one brain to many.
A speech by Wallace Loh, the Governor's policy director, to the University of Washington Law School in May worried many professors. In that speech, Mr. Loh said telecommunications would be especially useful for teaching adults returning to school.
"Technology is likely to be the much more common method of delivering the learning they need, at home or in the workplace for them, simply because they're place-bound," he said in an interview. Younger students would be more likely to attend traditional colleges or universities, he said.
The professors do not oppose all Internet instruction. "Under certain circumstances, distance learning is a wonderful option for people who are incapable of getting to a campus," said Lauren Goodlad, an assistant English professor who signed the letter. "The faculty is just concerned that this would be economically foolhardy because in point of fact, high-quality teaching, whether done on a distance-learning basis or on a campus basis, requires contact."
Many professors did not like what Mr. Loh called the "brave new world of digital education." But others believe that high technology could free up time for instructors to advise or tutor students and pursue more research. Already schools can circulate lectures and video clips of top professors electronically, and professors can get short-answer tests graded by computers. One of the main proponents of the letter acknowledges that technology has helped streamline academic life.
"We're happy to use it and are all using it, but when they basically want to replace people with computers, that's where we draw the line," said Galya Diment, an associate professor in the department of Slavic languages and literatures and president of the University of Washington chapter of the American Association of University Professors, which helped circulate the letter.
She noted that 95 percent of the signatures on the letter had been gathered via E-mail. "We don't want to go back to the caves or even to typewriters," she said. "What we objected to were the extreme views, like beaming an image of professors to students and thinking that would be a satisfactory way of replacing face-to-face education."
Alan Borning, a professor of computer science and engineering, joined a dozen other teachers in his department in signing the letter.
"A lot of education happens through the interaction of faculty and students in a variety of departments," he said. He described studies in computer graphics at the university that successfully bring together art, music and computer scholars. "If you have people learning from CD-ROM's off in their garage, this sort of thing is not going to happen."
Earlier this year, Governor Locke, a Democrat, created the 2020 Commissionand told it "to rethink and re-invent higher education from the ground up." Some at the University of Washington have criticized the selection of commission members -- whom Governor Locke called "a group of this state's smartest people"-- because the panel includes many from the business community but no professors from any college or university. The commission's recommendations to the Governor are due in September.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541219 OTHER ACCOUNTING SERVICES (71%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (71%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (71%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON COOPERS & LYBRAND (71%); COOPERS & LYBRAND (71%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (91%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (91%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (STATE); UNITED STATES (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; CD-ROM (COMPACT DISK-READ ONLY MEMORY) COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (94%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); DISTANCE LEARNING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TRENDS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EDUCATIONAL SOFTWARE (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (77%); INTERNET VIDEO (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); CORE CURRICULUM (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); STREAMING MEDIA (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); COMPUTER BASED TRAINING (68%); 

PERSON: KELLEY, TINA; LOCKE, GARY (GOV) GARY LOCKE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



429 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: In 'Kudzu,' The South Learns About Itself

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Not everyone who lives in the South, who was born in the lee of a kudzu-ensnarled water tower on a road where filling stations advertise barbecue and worms in the same breath and the hard-headed mechanic works only on American cars, actually loves the South.
Sometimes, people have to learn to love it, to love their place in it long after fate or fortune tugs them away from a world where the hounds sleep like the dead between the oil-stained boots of old men and the local newspaper comes out every Thursday. 
 That, give or take a half-dozen subplots, is the message in "Kudzu," the musical comedy based on the comic strip of the same name by Doug Marlette, a Pulitzer Prize-winning political cartoonist who grew up in North Carolina in places like the mythical town of Bypass, the setting for his strip and the show.
"Kudzu," playing through June here in Ford's Theater -- the place where John Wilkes Booth put a bullet in President Abraham Lincoln's brain during a production of "Our American Cousin" on April 14, 1865 -- is the story of a weed and a boy of the same name, an 18-year-old would-be writer named Kudzu Dubose.
One of them -- that would be the weed -- prospers in the red clay as the other tries in vain to snip and clip and otherwise stop its insidious spread even as his own life seems hopelessly bound by small-town inertia, by a slow pace of life that is threatened when the town's evil leading citizen, Big Bubba Tadsworth, tries to sell the very soul of the tiny hamlet to Japanese investors. The Japanese, as the plot goes, want to make it the world headquarters of their company, "the world's largest manufacturer of American flags."
The show "touches a very strong emotional cord, not only of what it means to be Southern but what it means to feel isolated, far from the centers where power and wealth lie," said William Ferris, a Mississippian and the chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts. "But deep below the vines of kudzu is a magical world, and the show evokes both the sad and the beautiful parts of that world.
"As we approach the millennium, you become increasingly aware that these worlds are quite precious."
The mythical Bypass got its name because when the state built its big, new highway it forgot to give the town an exit. So, as the show explains, the world just passes Bypass by, as everyone from Kudzu to the Rev. Will B. Dunn, the ambitious preacher, dream of trading their little town -- "a place so backward even the Episcopalians handle snakes" -- for something grander. "I get weepy when I see it, because it is my story and the story of every artist born in a small town or provincial city," said Pat Conroy, the best-selling author of "The Prince of Tides" and other books about Southerners. "No matter how good we are, we all have the fear we're not good enough."
Southerners blame the very place that nurtured them, that made them, he said. "William Faulkner, Thomas Wolfe, Eudora Welty, all knew about it, about having to learn to love the South," said Mr. Conroy, who is a close friend of Mr. Marlette.
But the musical, powered by the guitars, fiddles and piano of the Red Clay Ramblers, an eclectic band that began in weekend jam sessions in a North Carolina cabin but has performed around the world and on Broadway, is also a love story about the South, said the people who have seen it and can identify with the region.
One of the players, Kudzu's grease-spotted Uncle Dub, the town mechanic, is the community's voice of restraint, a man who is content with himself and his town. Kudzu, wanting to go off to the big city to be a writer, is torn between that force of good and that of Big Bubba, whose daughter -- the shallow and vapid but beautiful Veranda -- has stolen Kudzu's heart.
As the play unfolds, the audience wonders whether Kudzu -- who turns out to be the unexpected owner of the property Big Bubba wants for himself for the Japanese-owned American flag factory -- discovers the value in his town and himself. There are references to luring Mercedes plants and other foreign investors, pulled straight from real headlines, as the boy decides.
"Don't you hate when opportunity knocks, and folks act like their heads is made out of blocks," argues the character Big Bubba, played by Roger Howell, a Mississippian. "They just stand there, watching it fade. But a man like me, I take the opposite tack. I'll buy it from you, paint it and sell it right back. That's why you're you. But me, I got it made."
Small towns, desperate for an economic base, face such decisions routinely. But in real life, jobs almost always win out over memories and history. "What's the price worth paying?" said John Shelton Reed, professor of sociology at the University of North Carolina, who has seen the play several times. "Can you get decent jobs without selling your soul for them."
The show, he said, "could be kind of grim" if that was all it was about.
But it is also about barbecue sauce -- an unexpected shortage throws the town into a panic -- and hound dogs and unrequited love, as Kudzu longs after the pom-pom shaking Veranda, who chides him with: "Why don't you call me? Everybody else does."
It is about strong mothers and absent fathers -- Kudzu's daddy is a traveling trampoline salesman who disappeared 17 years ago -- and music and religion and impossible dreams. One of Kudzu's friends, Nasal T. Lardbottom, is so uncoordinated he cannot even connect on a high-five, but still dreams about leaping up for rim-shattering slam dunks.
"Lets face it," the character says, in a moment of doubt. "Ain't nobody ever gonna name a sneaker after Nasal T. Lardbottom."
Mr. Marlette, who wrote the show with two friends, Jack Herrick and Bland Simpson, both members of Red Clay Ramblers, got to see something most cartoonists do not. He saw his characters take on flesh and blood.
"That," he said, "was a joy."
He hopes people laugh at the jokes and situations even as they get the deeper meaning behind them.
"There's something about the south, where we're from, where America seems to come into itself," said Mr. Marlette, who divides his time between New York and Hillsborough, N.C. "The Civil War was fought on Southern soil and the civil rights movement. And now the economic energy has shifted south. There's something about our part of the world that makes America discover its deepest convictions. Its soul is worked out here."
The character Kudzu embodies all that, Mr. Marlette said, and has to decide if "all the things that he sees as bad about himself are actually the things that are special about him, wonderful about him."
It took years to put together, but crowds have been large and steady as the show nears the end of its Washington run at the end of June.
But even now, Mr. Marlette, the political cartoonist for Newsday, is still not sure what to call it, whether musical or show or theater.
Maybe he will just call it his story, too.
"My own personal myth," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donna English plays Veranda and James Ludwig is the title character in "Kudzu." (Stan Barouh/Ford's Theater)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: KUDZU (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (60%); 

COMPANY: BAY CITY RAMBLERS (MUSIC GROUP)

ORGANIZATION: BAY CITY RAMBLERS (MUSIC GROUP)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (60%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; REVIEWS; COMIC BOOKS AND STRIPS; FORD'S THEATER (WASHINGTON, DC) GAS STATIONS (89%); THEATER (88%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); WRITERS (75%); MUSICAL THEATER (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (67%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (64%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: BRAGG, RICK; MARLETTE, DOUG; SIMPSON, BLAND; HERRICK, JACK BIG BUBBA (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



430 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Joint Efforts to Prop Up Yen Cause a Selloff in Treasuries

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Intervention by the Federal Reserve and Bank of Japan yesterday on behalf of the yen sent the dollar plunging and caused the second consecutive sharp selloff in the Treasury market. The strong gains in many Asian stock markets also stemmed the flight into Treasuries.
The coordinated intervention took the steam out of the dollar's climb and made dollar-denominated investments like United States Government securities less attractive to foreign investors. 
 Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin confirmed that the Treasury and Fed had acted in concert with the Japanese central bank, and said the two nations "are prepared to continue to cooperate in the exchange markets, as appropriate."
The 30-year Treasury bond fell 1 9/32, to 105 17/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 5.73 percent, from 5.65 percent on Tuesday.
Douglas Porter, senior economist for Nesbitt Burns Securities, said: "On a near-term basis, the dollar could test its downside technical support, leaving the bond market vulnerable to further pressure. But if the past two episodes of intervention are any indication, the dollar's long-term uptrend will re-emerge and we will see bond yields begin dropping again. The long-bond yield could move back to 5.50 percent by the end of the year and to 5 percent by the end of 1999. That is, assuming the Asian economies will not have rebounded by then."
But Mr. Porter thinks that it is likely we're only just now seeing the first phase of an economic downturn in Asia.
Elsewhere, the Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation issued a record $3.45 billion junk bond offering through Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities. The eight-part deal was the largest junk bond offering in the last 10 years, second only to a $4 billion offering by RJR Nabisco Holdings in 1989.
Yields and spreads over Treasury securities for the Niagara Mohawk issue ranged from 6.50 percent, or 130 basis points, over a comparable maturity, to 8.539 percent, or 300 basis points, higher. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
The Treasury plans to sell $23 billion of new two-year and five-year notes next week. In when-issued trading the two-year note was being offered at a price to yield 5.50 percent and the five-year note 5.52 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since February. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (53%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP; TREASURY DEPARTMENT NIAGARA MOHAWK POWER CORP (81%); BANK OF JAPAN (58%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (53%); KRAFT NABISCO (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP; TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BOND MARKETS (93%); BONDS (93%); CURRENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BOND ISSUES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTEREST RATES (74%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (68%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



431 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Will Japan try to inflate its way out of its economic morass?

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
WITH Japan now officially in recession and the yen sagging to an eight-year low, the Clinton Administration has finally intervened to prop up the beleaguered Japanese currency. No one is claiming that the intervention is more than a palliative. One way or another Japan must jump-start its long-sputtering economy.
But how? Traditional monetary policy plainly hasn't worked. Creditworthy Japanese companies can already borrow at a ridiculously low 1 percent interest rate. 
And fiscal policy hasn't done much better. While the stimulus packages of the last few years have made a difference, consumers have refused to keep buying after the spigot has been shut off.
Paul Krugman, an economist at M.I.T., argues that the time has come for Japan to inflate its way out of the problem. He concedes that asking the Bank of Japan to "credibly promise to be irresponsible" smacks of desperation, but adds that desperate measures may be needed.
Even in Japan, a pro-inflation stance is no longer unthinkable. While Japan has been deeply conservative on financial matters, Gary Saxonhouse, an economist at the University of Michigan, notes that its newly independent central bank is not averse to radical thinking. "At least one widely respected member of their equivalent of the Fed's Open Market Committee has publicly supported reflation," he said.
The Japanese economy is barely bigger than it was in 1990. Its long period of stagnation has brought myriad problems to the surface -- notably that most banks would be insolvent if their holdings of stocks and real estate were valued at market prices. Given the failure of both easy monetary policy and fiscal stimulus to make a lasting difference in the economy, conventional wisdom points to free-market reforms as the key to Japan's recovery.
Few dispute the potential payoff. But, at best, progress will be slow: cleaning up the clubby banking system, for example, would take years -- even if the political establishment allowed insolvent institutions to close their doors. And Mr. Krugman, who made a splash a few years ago by comparing Asia's economic miracle to the mixed blessings of Soviet industrialization, wonders if it is really necessary.
By his analysis, Japan is caught in a Keynesian "liquidity trap," not very different from the one that bedeviled America in the early 1930's. Aging Japanese households are inclined to save their money. And with the price of everything from washing machines to office towers falling, earning half a percent interest on savings accounts still looks like a better route to wealth than buying housing or autos.
The way out is to convince ordinary Japanese that inflation is on the horizon, driving them out of cash and into new Toyotas. To manage this, Mr. Krugman wants the central bank to assert that it will pump whatever amount of money is necessary to generate inflation.
The standard approach under modern monetary policy would be to increase banks' reserves, and hence the amount they can lend, by buying Government bonds with cash. But nobody in Japan wants to borrow in the current deflationary climate. "You can't make a liquidity trap go away by throwing in more money," argued William Dudley, the chief United States economist at Goldman, Sachs.
What might work, Mr. Dudley suggests, is a hybrid of fiscal and monetary stimulus -- say, a big temporary tax cut, plus a firm commitment by the Bank of Japan to keep interest rates near zero even as prices rose. With expectations turned from deflation to inflation, households would have a new reason to spend.
The catch, says Albert Fishlow, an economist at the Council on Foreign Relations, is that Japanese households have another way to protect their assets against inflation. Thanks, ironically, to pressure from Washington to open their capital markets, the Japanese are now free to buy dollars or marks. So one plausible consequence of a shift to expectations of inflation would be a rush to foreign investments, which would weaken the yen still more.
A weaker yen would make Japan's goods even more competitive in world markets than they are now -- not necessarily a bad result for Japan, which has always used export growth to end recessions. But it would touch off protectionist sentiment in Congress. Equally important, it would make goods from China, Indonesia, Thailand and Indonesia less competitive in the huge Japanese market, perhaps leading to another round of currency depreciation. Indeed, much of the global anxiety over the recent fall of the yen is about its impact on the rest of Asia.
So even if desperate measures work for Japan, they might backfire for its ailing Asian trade partners. If only as a matter of prudence, then, Mr. Fishlow counsels, "we ought to be focusing on how the rest of Asia can make an economic comeback without help from Japan."

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Niculae Asciu) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (67%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN (99%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (67%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CURRENCY CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); TRENDS (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (64%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER PAUL KRUGMAN (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



432 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 317 words

HEADLINE: BASKETBALL;
Nets Show No Interest in Draft

BYLINE: By STEVE POPPER 

 BODY:
In recent years, the day of the National Basketball Association draft has been a vital one for the Nets. With an annual spot in the lottery, it usually turned out to be the most promising day of the year.
But in earning their first playoff berth since 1994 this year with a young and talented roster, the Nets dealt away their picks in this year's draft and they are not interested in joining in the fun. Coach John Calipari will be vacationing with his wife next Wednesday when the names are called. The Nets will not even send a representative to Vancouver for the draft, instead they will hire on a former assistant coach of the Canadian national team for the day to fill their seat at the table. 
 The Nets traded away their first-round selection, No. 15 over all, to the Orlando Magic in the deal to acquire Rony Seikaly. Their econd-round choice, No. 45 over all, went to the Lakers from a 1993 deal sending Sam Bowie to Los Angeles for Benoit Benjamin.
The Nets see this year's draft crop as a weak one and they believe that they have a strong team, so there is no need to participate.
"I asked these guys one thing," Calipari said, pointing toward General Manager John Nash and Dave Pendergraft, the director of player personnel. "I said to Dave, 'Is there a player in the draft that can make us better, that if we traded for him, that he would make us a better team?'
"And it was one or two guys maybe. There was no definite, 'this guy makes us better,' like Keith Van Horn. We definitely knew he would make us better, so it was, let's do what we have to do."
So on Wednesday, Nash will be in the office, watching the phone, but with little interest in listening.
The Nets' plan from the start of the season was to tie the first-round pick in a package to Yinka Dare, trying to entice someone to take his contract off their hands. Orlando took it and the Nets have no regrets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (56%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (69%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (56%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY NETS NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); ORLANDO MAGIC (56%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (55%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); ORLANDO MAGIC (56%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (55%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (56%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (69%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (56%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (SPORTS) BASKETBALL (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); 

PERSON: JOHN A NASH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



433 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: Fed Survey Says Economy Is Still Growing at Brisk Pace

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 17

 BODY:
The American economy continued its excellent performance into this month, with employment high and inflation low, despite scattered spillover from Asia's economic ills, the Federal Reserve said today.
"Employment levels are high and labor markets tight in most areas," the central bank said in its beige book survey of regional economic conditions. "Prices of goods are largely stable." 
 It said growth was "quite strong" in the Northeast and much of the Midwest and on the West Coast. The Southeast and Southwest, however, experienced "somewhat more modest growth," it added.
"Seven districts made specific note of effects from economic problems in Asia," it said.
The report, named for the color of its cover, was compiled from reports submitted to the Fed's district banks before June 8. It will be used when monetary policy makers meet next -- on June 30 and July 1 -- to decide whether to raise interest rates.
The Fed has not touched rates since March 1997. The benchmark rate on overnight loans between banks has been at 5.5 percent since then. Most economists expect the Fed to hold off raising rates as long as Asia remains economically fragile. Moreover, spillover from Asia should cool the United States economy, alleviating any need for an inflation-dampening increase in rates.
In today's report, the Federal Reserve noted such effects as a drop in sales to Asia of computer components and lumber from the San Francisco district, reduced demand for some manufactured goods in the Boston district and increased competition from Asian apparel and textiles in the Richmond district.
Nevertheless, the Fed said: "Over all, the U.S. economy continues its excellent performance. Output and employment are high while inflation is low. The economy continues to grow in all Federal Reserve districts and across most sectors."
Manufacturing, the sector most vulnerable to loss of export sales to Asia and competition from low-priced Asian imports, was "robust in several districts, notably Chicago, St. Louis and Kansas City," it said.
However, manufacturing was "somewhat weaker in an arc from Dallas through Atlanta and Richmond," it said.
The economy has been fueled "by liberal consumer spending and by business investment in plants and equipment," it said. Also, "the construction sector is very strong."
Agriculture, however, suffers from low crop and livestock prices and oil and gas drilling is slack.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Economy Remains Strong Amid Tight Labor Markets"
A roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to the quarterly beige book report issued by the Fed yesterday.
 
Minneapolis -- Growth was moderate to strong. Construction, retailing and manufacturing were robust. Labor markets were tight.
 
Chicago -- Despite a shortage of labor, the economy continued to grow. The district benefited from strong contruction activity.
 
Cleveland -- Economy continued to expand amid relatively modest inflation. Construction remained strong. Retail sales were mixed.
 
Boston -- Economic conditions remained strong. Retail, manufacturing, and insurance revenues rose. Prices remained level.
 
New York -- The economy maintained sturdy growth. Retailers reported that sales were ahead of expectations, led by gains in home-related goods.
 
Philadelphia -- Manufacturers reported steady growth. Auto and general merchandise sales rose. Home building remained strong.
 
Richmond -- The economy grew at a moderate pace. Manufacturing stagnated, as shipments and orders fell.
 
Atlanta -- The economy continued to grow at a steady pace. Sales were stronger than a year ago. Prices remained stable.
 
St. Louis -- Economic conditions were exceedingly good. Auto sales grew. Construction suffered from a shortage of workers.
 
Kansas City -- The economy maintained strong growth. Retail sales, construction and manufacturing were all strong.
 
Dallas -- The economy slowed slightly. Manuacturers, oil service, and machinery companies reported that business slowed, but construction and retail sales were strong.
 
San Francisco -- The economy continued to expand. Housing markets were strong. Labor was in short supply in many areas.
 
(Source: Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (64%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: WEST USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (78%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); MIDWESTERN STATES (US); WESTERN STATES (US); SOUTHEASTERN STATES (US); SOUTHWESTERN STATES (US); ASIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); WEST USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); TRENDS (77%); MEAT & LIVESTOCK MARKETS (72%); IMPORT PRICES (71%); LIBERALISM (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (67%); TEXTILES (64%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (64%); EXPORT TRADE (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



434 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: Popular Issue Drives G.M. Strike

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: FLINT, Mich., June 17

 BODY:
The 12-day-old strike against General Motors began as a little-watched local dispute at a single metal-shaping plant here, but the walkout has quickly snowballed into a strike of national importance.
Now 20 more plants are closed as parts shortages created by the strike have shut down most operations at the world's largest auto maker, a company accounting for 1.5 percent of the nation's economic output. 
 And although the walkout involves a tangle of issues, the strike has focused increasingly on an issue of paramount concern to millions of workers across the United States: the transfer of jobs overseas.
"We're on strike to protect our jobs, and that's an issue everyone cares about," said John Falk, a strapping auto worker who spent his 40th birthday on the picket line along with his son, Charlie. "G.M. has everyone worried they're going to shut everything down and move our jobs overseas, but we want to save some good-paying jobs so kids like 11-year-old Charlie here can have a good standard of living."
But General Motors sees things differently. Ever since 3,400 workers walked off the job on June 5 at the metal-stamping plant here, G.M. officials have insisted that the main issue is the company's need to trim costs further so it can compete better with Ford, Chrysler and Japanese auto makers. To do that, General Motors is demanding greater leeway to rely on lower-cost plants, usually nonunion and often overseas, to supply parts now made at G.M. plants, a practice called outsourcing.
"The union has accused G.M. of putting America last," said Harley Shaiken, a professor of industrial relations at the University of California at Berkeley. "This dispute is the most visible example of offshore outsourcing becoming the issue in a strike with major national implications."
Corporate America began embracing outsourcing in the 1980's, but the phenomenon has gathered steam in recent years as tariffs and trade barriers have fallen, making it easier and cheaper for companies like Caterpillar and New Balance shoes to buy many parts from abroad instead of making them in the United States.
As the practice has spread, unions have fought back, with mixed success, mostly at the bargaining table and rarely through strikes. But now, with General Motors aggressively pushing to move more work to nonunion plants, at home and abroad, the United Automobile Workers, emboldened by a booming economy and low unemployment, has decided to strike. The auto workers' tough stand against outsourcing is being watched closely by unions and other industries where outsourcing is growing: machinery, apparel, electronics and aircraft.
The strike pits the nation's largest manufacturer against the nation's most powerful and arguably the most respected union -- a union known for its toughness on the picket line and shrewdness in delivering at the bargaining table.
With some analysts predicting that the dispute could become the biggest auto industry showdown since the walkout that shut down General Motors for 67 days in 1970, the strike could cast a long shadow on labor-management relations nationwide and might help determine how hard or easy it will be for other companies to rely in outsourcing.
"The labor movement has to be watching this very closely because the U.A.W. is standing up for every union that is worried by the transfer of jobs overseas," said David L. Lewis, a professor of business history at the University of Michigan.
"It's a life-and-death struggle," Professor Lewis added. "General Motors is determined to transfer many of these jobs out of the country, and the U.A.W. simply can't have it. If the U.A.W. fails, many unions will find it all the more difficult to prevent outsourcing. This trend, this outsourcing, will be accelerated."
General Motors, which has the highest production costs among the Big Three, denies that it has an America-last attitude. Rather, its executives, alarmed by G.M.'s declining market share, assert that it merely wants to increase its levels of outsourcing closer to those of Ford and Chrysler. The union is further angered by G.M.'s new push for outsourcing. The effort could cause additional plant closings, forcing many workers to relocate and eliminating well-paid jobs.
The company's effort could also sap the union's power, membership and treasury by further reducing its numbers -- its membership has dropped to 800,000 today from 1.5 million in the 1970's.
Lastly, union officials are angry because in their view, General Motors, in its new outsourcing offensive, is violating the contract that the Flint local signed last year in which it accepted numerous steps to increase productivity. The Flint workers accuse the company of reneging on its commitment to invest $300 million in the metal-stamping plant so it can build parts for a vaunted new light truck. For its part, General Motors accuses the auto workers union of not carrying out several promised productivity measures.
Both sides continued to talk tough today as negotiations continued. Because of the parts shortage, General Motors closed two additional plants today, a sport utility vehicle factory in Arlington, Tex., and a mid-size sedan factory in Wilmington, Del.
The stakes are high for the auto workers. With General Motors showing new vigor in its erratic efforts to cut costs, the U.A.W. wants to send a powerful message that it will put up costly roadblocks if the company tries to downsize its American plants and work force beyond what the union has agreed to.
The showdown also carries symbolic significance because Flint is the cradle of the auto workers union. It is the city where storied sit-down strikes took place in the 1930's and where Walter Reuther, the legendary figure who built the union, made his mark.
"This is the birthplace of the U.A.W., the home of the sitdowners," said Claudia Perkins, a union representative at G.M.'s Delphi East parts plant here, which has also gone on strike. "If they bust the Flinters, they'll bust the stronghold of the U.A.W. This is very important."
As dozens of Flint workers stood in the hot sun today while waving "On Strike" placards, the strikers are convinced that the public strongly supports them. Fully one out of every two cars driving past the picket line honks in solidarity, while many neighbors and store owners have plied the strikers with pizzas, donuts and sodas. One barber gave the strikers discount slips for haircuts.
But many labor experts say this show of hometown support masks the ambivalence that many Americans feel toward the auto workers. There is widespread envy -- and even resentment -- toward these blue-collar Brahmins who, before overtime, earn $40,000 a year, and with overtime, often more than $60,000.
The public has certainly not rallied behind the auto workers the way it rallied behind the International Brotherhood of Teamsters in last August's walkout by 185,000 workers at the United Parcel Service, labor analysts say. One reason is that millions of Americans know their U.P.S. drivers, while auto workers toil unseen behind factory walls. Another reason is the teamsters, unlike the proud, go-it-alone auto workers, worked assiduously to line up public support before walking out.
Seeking to explain the public's differing reaction to the two walkouts, Richard Trumka, secretary-treasurer of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said: "The G.M. strike began as a local strike. The U.P.S. strike was a national strike from Day 1. We're seeing a calculated acceleration of the G.M. strike" by the union.
This is the ninth time in two years that an auto workers local has struck General Motors, leading industry analysts to suggest that the company's labor relations are far worse than those of its competitors. In many of the previous walkouts, the showdown was also over G.M.'s desire to downsize and outsource and the union's demand not only to prevent layoffs, but also to preserve jobs for future workers. The current concerns, though, are shared elsewhere.
"This issue here is not peculiar to General Motors," said Daniel Kruger, professor of labor studies at Michigan State University. "It's shared by all large and small employers: how can we find a balance between corporate efficiency and labor stability."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Curtis Halcomb, a supporter of the auto workers union, yesterday at a rally outside General Motor's metal stamping plant in Flint, Mich. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: FLINT, MI, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS; GENERAL MOTORS CORP GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%); UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS; GENERAL MOTORS CORP UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLINT (MICH); UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; STRIKES; LABOR; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET STRIKES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); OUTSOURCING (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE METAL STAMPING (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); OFFSHORING (74%); METAL STAMPING (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



435 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: India Defense Chief Calls U.S. Hypocritical

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS 

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, June 17

 BODY:
India's Defense Minister said today that President Clinton should explain why the United States believes that it can "trust China with nuclear weapons" while imposing economic sanctions on India for seeking a nuclear deterrent against threats from its nuclear-armed neighbors, China and Pakistan.
Speaking a week before Mr. Clinton is to leave Washington to visit China, Defense Minister George Fernandes said American policies on nuclear weapons were "hypocritical" because they sought to entrench the arsenals of the five established nuclear powers while shutting out countries like India that believe they need nuclear weapons for their own defense. 
 Mr. Fernandes said Indian leaders had noted recent news reports in which Clinton Administration officials had spoken of the United States and China's becoming "strategic partners" and of plans for an agreement that neither side would aim nuclear missiles at the other.
At the same time, Mr. Fernandes said, the United States was leading efforts to punish India with economic sanctions for its underground nuclear tests last month.
"I would ask Bill Clinton only one question," Mr. Fernandes said in an interview in his office. "And it would be this: Why is it that you feel yourself so close to China that you can trust China with nuclear weapons, just as you can trust yourselves with nuclear weapons, and you can trust the Russians and the French and the British, but you cannot trust India?"
Mr. Fernandes hinted at the kind of nuclear arsenal India intends to develop in the wake of the five nuclear tests it conducted and the six tests that Pakistan says it carried out in response.
He said that the Indian arsenal would be only large enough to act as a deterrent to potential aggressors, and that India would not get drawn into the kind of nuclear arms race that led the United States and the Soviet Union to amass huge nuclear stockpiles.
He said India had learned the lessons of the cold war. "The United States, with all the might of its nuclear weapons, had to finally get out of Vietnam, and Russia had to surrender, of all people, to the Chechens," he said. "So it is an established fact that any country that has nuclear weapons cannot use them. By definition they can be used only as a deterrent."
He added: "If we had to go nuclear, it was for the purpose of possessing a nuclear deterrent that would enable us to tackle some of the threats that we faced, only that."
He described these threats as coming primarily from "across the border to the north," meaning from China, and also from Pakistan, which he said had been aided by transfers of nuclear and missile technology from China.
His remarks were in line with the toned-down approach that India has adopted since euphoria over the nuclear tests began to subside. Immediately after the tests, Mr. Fernandes said India intended to place nuclear warheads atop its missiles. But recently, India's emphasis has been on its readiness to negotiate with Pakistan and the five established nuclear powers.
Mr. Fernandes refused to go into details on the number of nuclear warheads India felt it needed or how they would be deployed. But in response to a question, he said India's approach would follow what defense analysts here have described as "recessed deterrence."
The term has been used here to describe a nuclear arsenal powerful enough to deter aggressors but not so large as to impose crippling economic costs. Many Indian experts have said that an arsenal of this kind could be "warehoused" to be deployed only in a crisis.
India would be prepared to forgo even such a "minimal" deterrent, Mr. Fernandes said, if the established nuclear powers agreed to renegotiate existing nuclear limitation agreements to provide for the elimination of all nuclear arsenals.
That has been India's policy for decades, but it has been rejected by the United States and the other nuclear powers, which have insisted on the right to maintain their arsenals.
Mr. Fernandes, 68, leads a small socialist party that is one of 14 in India's governing coalition. He acknowledged that he had been a longstanding opponent of nuclear weapons, to the point of having taken part in protests and sit-ins against nuclear arms in India and abroad when he was an opposition politician.
But he said he could not accept the attitude of Western powers on nuclear issues, which seemed to be that they were responsible enough to handle nuclear weapons themselves while India and Pakistan were not.
"I don't know why India and Pakistan should be seen as blowing each other up when nuclear weapons in the hands of the United States and China are seen as stabilizing factors," he said.
Referring to the nuclear standoff between the United States and the Soviet Union during the Cuban missile crisis of 1962, he added: "Even at the height of the cold war, everybody kept their cool, even at the eleventh hour. Now to believe that this is a prerogative reserved to nations that have 10,000 nuclear warheads each and not to nations that don't even have a stockpile, that is unfair."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Defense Minister George Fernandes is critical of Washington. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (99%); INDIA (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; CHINA; PAKISTAN; UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (99%); INDIA (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; INDIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS NUCLEAR WEAPONS (98%); MILITARY WEAPONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ARMS RACE (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); 

PERSON: BURNS, JOHN F; FERNANDES, GEORGE (MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



436 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Drug Policy Official Warns Panel of Effort to Legalize Drugs

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 17

 BODY:
The White House's top drug policy official today accused critics of the nation's zero-tolerance drug laws of pursuing an agenda to legalize drugs from marijuana to heroin and cocaine.
In written testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, the official, Gen. Barry R. McCaffrey, asserted, "There is a carefully camouflaged, exorbitantly funded, well-heeled elitist group whose ultimate goal is to legalize drug use in the United States." 
 While General McCaffrey named no names, he was clearly referring to a coalition of advocacy groups that argues that the global war on drugs has cost society more than drug abuse itself. Some of those advocates attracted attention last week with an open letter to the United Nations Secretary General as the General Assembly opened a three-day special session on drugs.
The letter -- whose 500 signers included the former Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar, former Secretary of State George P. Shultz and two former Senators, Alan Cranston and Claiborne Pell -- argued that by focusing on punishing drug users, the United States and other countries had helped create a worldwide criminal black market that wrecked national economies and democratic governments.
The letter's signers also included George Soros, the billionaire investor and philanthropist, who has spent as much as $20 million supporting research and advocacy groups working to change Americans' views on how to deal with drug use. Mr. Soros said in an interview last week that he hoped that it would foster an open discussion of the issue.
But General McCaffrey, the Clinton Administration's director of national drug policy, said the critics were disguising their true purpose because Americans overwhelmingly opposed legalizing drugs.
"Through a slick misinformation campaign," he said, "these individuals perpetuate a fraud on the American people, a fraud so devious that even some of the nation's most respectable newspapers and sophisticated media are capable of echoing their falsehoods."
His assertion prompted the Judiciary Committee's ranking Democrat, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, to propose hearings into the issue of legalizing drugs.
"Let's expose it for the fraud that it is," Senator Biden said.
Mr. Soros could not be reached today because he was traveling in Sweden. But one of the most prominent advocates of less punitive approaches to drug use, Ethan Nadelmann, director of the Lindesmith Center, a drug policy institute in New York supported by Mr. Soros, called the general's criticism "an attempt to smear what's a very responsible approach to dealing with drug abuse in our society."
At the core of the disagreement is the concept of harm reduction, which to advocates like Mr. Nadelmann, means finding ways short of abstinence to reduce the harm that drug abusers cause themselves and society. Needle exchange, in which addicts are given clean needles to try to stem the spread of AIDS, is a prominent example.
Kevin Zeese, president of Common Sense for Drug Policy, a group in Falls Church, Va., that also wants drug laws changed, said, "The reason why there is an upsurge of people advocating reform is because the current policy is not making for a safer or healthier society,"
But General McCaffrey called harm reduction "a hijacked concept that has become a euphemism for drug legalization."
"It's become a cover story for people who would lower the barriers to drug use," he said.
Mr. Nadelmann responded, "The majority of harm reduction advocates oppose drug legalization, and that includes George Soros."
Until today, General McCaffrey had ignored the advocacy groups' lobbying, and so his sharp attack was a change in strategy.
After testifying, he said he was suggesting a debate about legalization, not a witch hunt.
"It's a legitimate subject of debate in our society if you do it openly," said General McCaffrey, who is retired from the Army.
He predicted that the notion would be "rejected resoundingly" once Americans discovered what was involved.
Mr. Nadelmann said: "I would welcome the opportunity to debate him anytime or anyplace. His trying to equate all forms of harm reduction with a free market approach to drug legalization is both false and duplicitous."
But Mark A. R. Kleiman, a professor of public policy at the University of California at Los Angeles who follows drug issues, expressed concern that such a debate would detract from the more crucial task of finding ways to make the current anti-drug strategies work more effectively.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SWEDEN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); SWEDEN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; DRUG LEGALIZATION DECRIMINALIZATION (92%); DRUG POLICY (92%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); RANKINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); HEROIN (78%); COCAINE (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CANNABIS (77%); AIDS & HIV (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); 

PERSON: MCCAFFREY, BARRY R (GEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN); BIDEN, JOSEPH R JR (SEN); WREN, CHRISTOPHER S GEORGE SOROS (79%); JOE BIDEN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



437 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Real Change or Empty Promises?

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Thursday, June 18

 BODY:
As currency trading resumed this morning in Asia, the central question was simply: How much has changed?
Has Japan, in making pledges Wednesday on an economic program to strengthen its economy, really committed itself to far-reaching changes? Do its pledges mark a turning point that will lead to a firmer yen and to greater economic stability for Asia? 
 Or are they merely warmed-over promises from yesterday? If so, will the currency intervention by the United States and Japan be overwhelmed within a few days by market forces, leading to an ever-cheaper yen and to greater economic turmoil around the world?
For now there are more questions than answers, but there is evidence for both propositions.
While the United States emphasized that Japan had agreed to more specific actions, almost all the elements of the economic program are already longstanding elements of Japanese policy.
"Recognizing that restructuring and revitalization of the Japanese economy are urgently needed, we will make every effort to restore its banking system to health, to achieve domestic demand-led growth, and to open and deregulate its markets," Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto said in a statement after his conversation with President Clinton.
But Mr. Hashimoto has said the same things many times before. Indeed, his latest comment was not nearly as strong as his assertion a couple of years ago that he would restructure Japan "or else burn up in flames trying."
Likewise, Mr. Hashimoto pledged this time to abandon the "convoy system," whereby financial institutions move in tandem and are hurriedly repaired or given new gas whenever they risk falling behind. Yet Japanese officials have been saying since last year that the convoy system has already ended.
Many analysts believe that Japan is likely to tinker with the system rather than rapidly introduce fundamental changes, as the markets would like.
"There's this Japanese view that if they just correct the financial misadjustments, they'll be O.K," said Ronald A. Morse, a professor of economics and business administration at Reitaku University near Tokyo. Professor Morse said he doubted that any major change was likely soon.
Yet even if Japan has not made any stunning new commitments that might convince the markets, there are some reasons why Wednesday's joint intervention may mark a turning point. Above all, there is timing.
On Wednesday night, Japan's Parliament passed a supplementary budget that amounted to the go-ahead for a stimulus package, worth roughly $119 billion, that is the centerpiece of plans to revive the economy.
Japanese officials have been saying for months that Americans should not be too impatient, that the parliamentary process will take time, but that once passed, the package will revive the economy.
The Government has already made all the preparations to spend the money, simply waiting for the measure's passage to push the button, and so the funds are now going to trickle through Japan's economic arteries almost immediately. There is some disagreement about exactly how to measure the stimulus package and how effective it will be, but almost everyone agrees that it is a major and credible effort.
Another element of timing is that Prime Minister Hashimoto has long been expected to introduce new economic measures -- presumably more far-reaching efforts at restructuring than anything announced so far -- after elections for the upper house of Parliament on July 12. So if Washington and Tokyo can prop up the yen with promises and the odd billion dollars worth of market intervention for just a few more weeks, then the combination of the stimulus package and the new measures announced by Japan after the election may in turn support the yen.
There are a number of precedents for political action creating turning points in the market. In 1985, the United States engineered the Plaza Accord to end the strong dollar and bolster the value of other currencies, and then by April 1995 the yen had soared so high that Japan organized what has been called a "reverse Plaza Accord" to weaken its currency.
It then took only a little less than 80 yen to buy a dollar, but Japan managed to turn the trend around and the yen steadily sank ever since -- reaching an eight-year low of about 146 yen to the dollar earlier this week. So now the Governments are apparently aiming for a "reverse-reverse-Plaza Accord" that would rely on jawboning, intervention and shrewd timing to send the yen permanently to higher levels.
Still, there are some fundamental reasons to be skeptical about whether the current coordinated effort can really change the market environment for the yen. The currency has been tumbling in part because Japanese capital has been fleeing abroad in search of higher interest rates, and that is unlikely to change.
Moreover, even some Japanese Government officials worry that restructuring the economy along market lines -- while advantageous for the long run -- may in the short term create more anxieties.
Mr. Hashimoto pledged, for example, to "expeditiously restructure the financial system." It is not clear what that means, but many analysts believe that Japan has too many banks and that some should be put out of the public's misery. Thus a serious restructuring might lead to more bankruptcies and bank failures, and it is not clear that in the short run such actions would do much for public sentiment or the strength of the yen.
Whatever the package does for the Japanese economy and the yen, it presumably will be helpful to Mr. Hashimoto and his ruling Liberal Democratic Party. Mr. Hashimoto has been criticized in Japan for not doing enough to revive the economy, and he can now argue that he is working in conjunction with President Clinton to tackle the problems. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D BILL CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



438 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 3; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: THE GOLF REPORT;
New Generation Has Nothing to Fear

BYLINE: By AL BARKOW 

 BODY:
In a rare candid moment some years after the fact, Ben Hogan recalled he had contributed to his own incredible playoff loss to Jack Fleck in the 1955 United States Open, at San Francisco's Olympic Club, where this year's Open begins today.
On the second hole, Hogan had reached the green in regulation, and was waiting there for Fleck while the obscure municipal course pro struggled after a poor tee shot, taking considerable time to play from deep rough and a bunker. When Fleck at last arrived on the green, he said to Hogan, "Sorry to keep you waiting." Hogan replied, "That's O.K., we've got nothing else to do today." And with that reply, Hogan reminisced, he gave up his edge, his intimidation factor. Fleck won, 69-72. 
 In Hogan's day, a champion player, by virtue of his record and his manner of being as well, could cow a less-accomplished opponent. Hogan, with his dour and silent mien, was an intimidator supreme. Jack Nicklaus was not quite as grim, but his self-absorption was palpable. Opponents felt he didn't know they even existed. He did know, though, his effect on them. Nicklaus once remarked that when in contention coming down the stretch he had at least a stroke up on the others by simply being Nicklaus.
That sort of thing doesn't prevail anymore, it appears. Today's leading young players -- Tiger Woods, Justin Leonard, Ernie Els, David Duval, Lee Westwood, et al., simply are not afraid of anything or anyone. They are not terrified by the significance of an event, or the presence and previous accomplishments of other players, especially the older, established ones.
"I've never felt afraid of anyone out here, in golf," said the 25-year-old Westwood, the current British hot shot.
Why not? What makes the new generation of golfers so intrepid? The former P.G.A. Championship winner Bob Tway is one of many who make the point that today's young professionals experience so much high-quality competition on high-quality courses as teen-agers and in college that coming to the pro circuit is merely an extension of their golf life. Many of the players have been playing one another for years. So if intimidation is at least partly the product of dealing with something new, what's to fear?
Also, a large percentage of today's professional golfers come from a middle-class background. Their parents could afford to provide them with professional instruction, perhaps membership in a country club, the opportunity to travel, a college education and the money to play the amateur golf circuit. Previous generations of pros, in most cases, rose from less-fortunate economic situations. Young players who come to big-time golf from more comfortable circumstances simply feel at home, even deserving. Many of their predecessors often got into golf as caddies, not a bad line of work for a young person but one decidedly on the servant side of the spectrum. Poor youngsters are more apt to be awed by the accouterments of well being, at least when first encountered.
Frank Nobilo, the New Zealander playing the American circuit, is among those who feel the money that can be made in pro golf now is a component of fearlessness. "You can make so much now, in only one tournament, that it's leveled the playing field," he said. "Because you don't have to cut corners, be overly careful as a player, you can take more chances." Nobilo also said that pros now "have all the equipment experts out here, swing gurus, psychologists, all there for us with the latest and best information, so we don't have to hang around the old pros, get their confidence, to get insights on the game and how to play it."
Howard Twitty believes today's clubs and balls have to no little degree taken the artistry out of playing the game. Hence, there is no call to watch the old-timers play cut shots and draws and knockdowns, and ask them how they do it. "Technology has made so much of the game so much easier," Twitty said. "What with how far the ball goes and how much less it curves in the air, and because of the perfect grasses we play from, we don't need those finesse shots anymore."
But maybe there is more to it than equipment technology and economics. Perhaps there is something in the popular culture that is putting no fear in the hearts of young athletes. Television, for example. Past sports heroes were, in a way, mythological figures, in part because they weren't actually seen that often. But with the coming of television, and its extensive, not to say small-screen-intimate coverage, children can see for themselves that major leaguers will bobble the easy grounder, strike out swinging at a bad pitch, miss two free throws in a row, drop a pass in the end zone, or watch in living color every excruciating moment as Greg Norman fritters away a huge lead in the final round of the Masters. Seeing the stars make mistakes has more impact than reading about it.
Take this a step further. On television, the normally stone-faced Nick Faldo breaks down in tears upon winning a British Open. Nothing wrong with grown men crying in emotional times, of course, even when winning. Quite human, in fact. Which is the point. It corroborates what Westwood had drilled into him by his school-teacher father: "Dad said everyone puts their pants on one leg at a time," Westwood said. "The best players just make fewer mistakes."
So what is there to be intimidated by?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: P G I (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: GOLF SPORTS (90%); GOLF (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); ATHLETES (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); AMATEUR SPORTS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); 

PERSON: BARKOW, AL TIGER WOODS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



439 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Deliberately or Not, Rubin Set Up a Fall

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Last Thursday, Robert E. Rubin, the Secretary of the Treasury, made comments to Congress that currency traders took as a green light to sell billions more yen, driving the currency to nearly an eight-year low.
The academic but economically correct testimony was interpreted as a declaration that the United States would not intervene in the currency markets to support the weakening Japanese yen. 
 Yesterday, as the dust cleared from an initially successful surprise intervention to support the yen, traders and analysts were wondering whether they had been set up for a fall by their interpretation, even if it was wrong, of Mr. Rubin's sell signal. After all, he did make his reputation trading on Wall Street.
His comments, they said, helped get more and more investors out on a limb on their bet against the yen. That meant that they scrambled for safety -- and to cut their losses -- much faster when Mr. Rubin threatened to cut them off. And that panic selling is what helped push the yen up 5.2 percent in one day against the dollar.
Currency traders and analysts would not say that Mr. Rubin did this on purpose. But they did agree that his remarks propelled the sharp fall in the yen on Thursday and Monday and stretched investors, making the snap back yesterday even bigger.
"The effect of those remarks were to make the market more susceptible," said John Lipsky, the chief economist at Chase Manhattan Bank. "Certainly there will be speculation by market participants that they had been set up."
Traders and analysts agreed that yesterday's intervention, the first to support the yen since 1992 and the first of any kind since August 1995, was effective for a day. But they expect the yen will resume its decline unless Japan makes some surprising policy changes. Even after yesterday's rebound, the yen is still down 17 percent against the dollar over the last year and 41 percent from its high in April 1995.
Jeremy P. Fand, senior foreign exchange strategist at BankBoston, said speculators were buying dollars yesterday, betting that the intervention would not support the yen for long.
Mr. Rubin agrees that intervention is not effective for long without changes in policies that in this case support the yen. His emphasis of that point last week led to the additional heavy selling of yen. New policies are necessary because only a change in Japan's economic outlook -- the economy is in a recession -- will make Japan and the yen attractive to investors again.
But taking convincing action immediately will be difficult because elections are set for July and the Japanese Government, which has announced a long series of disappointing programs to stimulate the economy, has little credibility in the foreign exchange market. New promises of action yesterday, such as dealing with the mountain of bad bank debt, were generally dismissed.
"I am a little worried," said Robert White, the treasurer of Standard Chartered Bank. "We have taken this step to intervene with Japanese promises and the Japanese have been known to break their promises."
Noting the lack of new actions by the Japanese and Mr. Rubin's own distrust of intervention without policy changes, Mr. Lipsky said the whole operation "leaves the impression of an emergency measure that would temporarily stave off significant market instability."
One of the first tests for the yen will come after the meeting this weekend in Tokyo between Japanese officials and Lawrence H. Summers, the Deputy Treasury Secretary, and William J. McDonough, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, through which yesterday's intervention was done. If there are no positive surprises, more intervention might be needed.
Traders also said that they thought the intervention by the Clinton Administration was motivated by the recent threats from China that a further decline in the yen would force the Chinese to devalue their currency, setting off another round of devaluations in Asia that would further destabilize the region economically.
In timing yesterday's buying of yen for dollars, it appeared that the Treasury and the Federal Reserve were able to take advantage of two tactics of intervention. First, whether intentionally or not, they let the dollar rally far and fast and left traders with the impression they would not get in the way.
Intervening in this circumstance, which has been called a bear trap, can catch traders off guard, a key to intervention success. Some traders said they had seen some speculating hedge funds piling on their yen selling last week, which meant some faced the sharp losses needed to force them to sell dollars and buy yen yesterday. But most hedge funds had been selling yen for some time, so they probably still have profits over all.
The second tactic is pushing a currency in the direction it is already going. The Government was able to do this because of the sudden rally of the yen on Tuesday, as traders wondered finally whether something was up after the Treasury indicated Mr. Summers would travel to Japan.
Nicholas Sargen, the global market strategist for J. P. Morgan's private clients, doubts that Mr. Rubin tried to set up the market. "He risks losing his own credibility doing that," Mr. Sargen said.
Instead, he said that Mr. Rubin's comments last week "snowballed on him" and accelerated the crisis. And yesterday's move was an effort to make clear "that there is not a green light to go out there and sell yen."
If that is the case, Mr. Rubin proved he learned something else from his Wall Street career: how to take advantage of mistakes.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert E. Rubin, the Secretary of the Treasury, helped lower, then raise, the yen. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (54%); BAC (LSE) (54%); 8648 (TSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (54%); DEPUTY TREASURY (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEPUTY TREASURY (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US CURRENCIES (93%); JAPANESE YEN (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); RECESSION (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; RUBIN, ROBERT E (SEC) ROBERT E RUBIN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



440 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Legislature Presses Toward Ending Session in Albany

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 17

 BODY:
As one of the most sluggish legislative sessions in memory drew toward a close today, lawmakers remained deeply divided on a host of major issues, from changing parole rules to creating charter schools to expanding health care for poor children.
With the State Legislature pressing to complete its business by Thursday, Gov. George E. Pataki and the leaders of the Democratic-led Assembly and the Republican-controlled State Senate said they could not agree on the legislation to end parole for all violent offenders, one of the Governor's major election-year initiatives. 
 The prospects also looked dim for about a dozen other issues, including a bill to provide health care for poor children up to age 18 and a plan to create charter schools that are publicly financed but operate independently of local school boards.
The session-ending malaise comes two months after the Legislature broke with its tradition of having extraordinarily late budgets and passed a record $71.6 billion budget that included generous spending on schools and tax cuts.
But much of the last few weeks have been bogged down in election-year politics and the animosity between the Republican Governor and the Democratic Assembly Speaker, Sheldon Silver. The gridlock is such that Mr. Pataki had scheduled a trip to Buffalo today to sign copies of his recently released autobiography. But he decided to cancel the trip to be on hand in the State Capitol just in case there might be a breakthrough on any of the legislative fronts.
"We will continue to meet through the afternoon and into the evening until we close on some of the issues or recognize that we can't," Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, told reporters this morning after emerging from a meeting with Mr. Pataki and Mr. Silver. "So it's just a process of trying to finalize where we are. The one thing we agree on is that we will be closed by tomorrow night."
The Governor and the legislative leaders directed their staffs to work through the night to try to seal some deals.
Legislative leaders have managed to reach agreement in a few areas. The most significant is on a bill that would provide the largest increase ever in pension benefits for the more than 300,000 current and retired state employees. The legislation now goes to the Governor, who has said he would be open to a reasonable pension bill.
Under the legislation, retired employees would receive pension increases ranging from 1.44 percent to 10.30 percent based on when they retired. The larger increases would go to the people who have been retired the longest, because the value of their pensions has been eroded by inflation.
Current employees, upon retirement, would have their pensions set on a new formula that provides increases to account for current inflation rates.
The legislation did not establish a permanent system of cost-of-living increases, which the public employee unions had wanted. But union leaders said it helped fix a basic inequity in the pension system.
"We are pleased with this agreement," said Denyce Duncan Lacy, a spokeswoman for the New York State Public Employees Federation. "But we'll be back again next year lobbying for a permanent solution to the pension."
The Legislature also agreed on a bill that would extend for another two and a half years a landmark program that required the state to begin closing its expensive and outdated psychiatric hospitals and to use the savings to expand a wide range of community mental health programs. The program, which was set to expire in 10 months, was intended to revolutionize care for the mentally ill.
The legislation is expected to be passed by both houses on Thursday and to be sent to the Governor for approval. Zenia Mucha, a spokeswoman for Mr. Pataki, said the administration was unaware of the legislation, but would be open to considering it.
This evening, the leaders of the Assembly said they would pass legislation that begins the process of legalizing casino gambling in New York. But it was not clear if the Assembly proposal would be accepted by the Senate, where a similar measure was defeated. The legislation would allow casinos in the Niagara Falls-Buffalo area, in the Catskills and in Warren County in upstate New York.
Mr. Pataki and the legislative leaders remained far apart on other major issues, though their differences could be resolved in the flurry of legislative horse trading that has historically dominated the end of the session.
There were signs today that legislative leaders, particularly Mr. Silver, would be willing to compromise with the Governor on issues dear to the administration in return for his agreement to restore some of the $1.6 billion he cut from the budget that the Legislature sent to him in April.
One area for potential compromise is the Governor's proposal to create independently run charter schools that would be alternatives to public schools. Mr. Silver has blocked the proposal but has left open the possibility that he would support it if the Governor agreed to restore money for teacher salaries, school construction and repairs and other areas in the budget, people with knowledge of the negotiations said.
Another major piece of legislation still being negotiated involves ending discretionary parole for all violent felons. Mr. Pataki and his allies in the Senate have been pushing hard to have the bill enacted. But the Democrats in the Assembly have said that they will only agree to such a bill if it includes a provision allowing some low-level offenders to attend drug treatment programs instead of going to prison. So far, Republicans have rejected that provision.
Yet another issue being negotiated is whether to pass a hotly debated bill that deals with police arbitration in New York City.
The bill would move jurisdiction for labor disputes between the city and the police union from a city office to a state agency.
The state board that arbitrates police labor disputes for other cities and towns in the state has generally given more generous settlements to the unions than local governments had offered.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has opposed the legislation and he persuaded Mr. Pataki to veto a similar measure in 1995. But under pressure from the police union, the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, the Legislature overrode the veto.
Mr. Giuliani successfully challenged the law in court, but legislative leaders introduced the new bill to address legal problems in the first legislation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As the legislative session drew to a close, lobbyists Brian Curran, Elizabeth Clyne and Evelyn Tsimis, right, took advantage of a quiet hallway. (David Jennings for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: STATE LEGISLATURE (87%); DEMOCRATIC ASSEMBLY (73%); NEW YORK STATE PUBLIC (63%); STATE SENATE (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE LEGISLATURE (87%); DEMOCRATIC ASSEMBLY (73%); NEW YORK STATE PUBLIC (63%); STATE SENATE (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PAROLE (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (84%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (77%); POLITICS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (74%); TAX LAW (73%); VIOLENT CRIME (72%); COST OF LIVING (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); CIVIL SERVICES (64%); INFLATION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (58%); EDDIE GEORGE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



441 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Albright's Remarks on Iran: 'Khatami Deserves Respect'

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright's speech last night to the Asia Society in New York, as provided by the State Department:
Since taking office, President Khatami has responded to the demands of the Iranian people by emphasizing the importance of dialogue among nations and cultures, and by acknowledging the world's growing interdependence. He has said that "a society intending to reach development cannot succeed without understanding Western civilization." I would say, in response, that the same can be said with respect to Eastern civilization and Islamic civilization. 
 President Khatami has said that the American Government deserves respect because it is a reflection of the great American people. I would say that President Khatami deserves respect because he is the choice of the Iranian people. . . .
In past years, Iran's opposition to the Middle East peace process and to those willing to negotiate with Israel has been vitriolic and violent. The Islamic Republic still refuses to recognize Israel, and its leaders continue to denounce Israel in inflammatory and unacceptable terms.
But last December, Iranian officials welcomed Chairman Arafat to the Islamic summit in Teheran and said that, although they did not agree with the logic of the peace process, they would not seek to impose their views and would accept what the Palestinians could accept.
In January, President Khatami publicly denounced terrorism and condemned the killing of innocent Israelis. He argued that terrorism was not only against Islam but also counterproductive to Iran's purposes. Iran, after all, has also been a victim of terrorism.
If these views are translated into a rejection of terrorism as a tool of Iranian statecraft, it would do much to dispel the concerns of the international community from Germany to the Persian Gulf, and from Argentina to Algeria.
There are other signs of change, as well. For example, Iran's record in the war against drugs has greatly improved -- at least within its own borders -- and it has received high marks from the U.N. for its treatment of more than two million Iraqi and Afghan refugees. . . .
The United States opposes -- and will continue to oppose -- any country selling or transferring to Iran materials and technologies that could be used to develop long-range missiles or weapons of mass destruction. Similarly, we oppose Iranian efforts to sponsor terror. Accordingly, our economic policies, including with respect to the export pipelines for Caspian oil and gas, remain unchanged.
But let me be clear. These policies are not -- as some Iranians allege -- anti-Islamic. Islam is the fastest-growing religious faith in the United States. We respect deeply its moral teachings and its role as a source of inspiration and instruction for hundreds of millions of people around the world. . . .
We are ready to explore further ways to build mutual confidence and avoid misunderstandings. The Islamic Republic should consider parallel steps. If such a process can be initiated and sustained in a way that addresses the concerns of both sides, then we in the United States can see the prospect of a very different relationship. As the wall of mistrust comes down, we can develop with the Islamic Republic, when it is ready, a road map leading to normal relations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

TICKER: EQE (ASX) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (53%); 

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (79%); IRAN (58%); GERMANY (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%); 

COMPANY: EQUUS MINING LTD (53%); THE ASIA SOCIETY (84%); THE ASIA SOCIETY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE ASIA SOCIETY (84%); THE ASIA SOCIETY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (79%); IRAN (58%); GERMANY (53%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); RELIGION (90%); TERRORISM (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (76%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); REFUGEES (64%); DRUG POLICY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); 

PERSON: ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC) TZIPORA LIVNI (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



442 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: House Votes to Dump Tax Code by 2003

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 17

 BODY:
After years of rhetoric about the complexities and inequities in the tax code, the House took a dramatic though almost wholly symbolic step today toward doing something about it.
By 219 to 209, it voted to require that Congress come up with a new tax system by Independence Day 2002 and scrap the current code by the end of that year. 
The vote, largely along party lines, was a victory for Republicans who have spent years expressing and cultivating unhappiness with the tax laws and the Internal Revenue Service. It was sharply criticized by President Clinton and Democrats as an election-year ploy that risked throwing the nation into economic chaos while avoiding any hard choices about what a new tax system would look like.
Because the White House has threatened to veto the measure, it will almost certainly not become law even if it passes the Senate, where its prospects are unclear.
But the vote gave Republicans a boost in their efforts to build support for alternatives to the progressive income tax: a single-rate flat tax, perhaps, or a national sales tax. And Republicans are certain to try to use the vote to paint Democrats, during the Congressional election campaign this fall, as defenders of a 555-million-word set of laws and regulations that gives taxpayers a headache.
"What we have today is a monstrosity," said Speaker Newt Gingrich, who ticked off statistics about the burdens imposed on businesses and individuals by the current system, including $200 billion a year spent on accountant and lawyer fees and other costs of complying, 8 billion pages a year of forms filed and 5.4 billion hours of work on them.
"This bill is a very important step in the right direction," Mr. Gingrich said as he accepted from the National Federation of Independent Business, the small-business lobbying group, petitions that bore 750,000 signatures and called for an end to the current tax system.
Republicans are generally united in a belief that pushing to throw out the current code is both good policy and good politics, and at the heart of the bill passed today was the notion that setting a deadline was the best way to force action. The legislation calls for a national dialogue on creating a new, unspecified system that is "fairer, less complicated and less burdensome to working Americans." It was watered down somewhat from its original form, which did not provide for putting any new system in place before termination of the existing code and which called for the current system to be scrapped by the end of 2001 instead of 2002.
For all their general fervor against the current system, though, Republicans have been unable to agree among themselves on a specific replacement.
One camp, led by Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader, and Steve Forbes, who made the issue the centerpiece of his 1996 Presidential run, favor a flat tax. They maintain that their approach, in addition to being simpler, would enable almost everyone to pay taxes at a lower rate, although at the cost of eliminating many popular tax breaks, in some cases including the mortgage interest deduction.
Another camp, which includes Representative Bill Archer of Texas, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, is leaning toward some kind of national sales or consumption tax, which would eliminate the income tax altogether.
Democrats say they support improving the tax system or considering a new approach. But they say it would be reckless to kill off the current code without having even begun a serious debate on the alternatives, much less having worked out the complexities of managing a transition from one system to another.
Without knowing what tax system would be in place several years down the road, they say, people would have difficulty planning for decisions like home purchases, companies would face uncertainty about investment decisions, and the entire economy could suffer.
"I don't think we will ever live to see a more irresponsible act," said Representative Charles B. Rangel of Manhattan, the Ways and Means Committee's ranking Democrat, who called the bill nothing more than a stunt for use against Democrats on the campaign trail.
"Let's pass a law to terminate cancer," Mr. Rangel said. "If you vote against it, you support cancer."
Before the vote today, Mr. Clinton, in remarks to reporters at the White House, said he favored simplifying the tax system and had not ruled out any alternatives. But he said passage of the House bill would be a bad mistake, increasing the risks to the economy at home and abroad.
"The last thing in the world we need to do right now," he said in allusion to the economic turmoil that has swept Asia, "is to send some signal of instability that we've decided to get rid of our whole tax code without knowing what to replace it with."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); ELECTION ISSUES TAXES & TAXATION (98%); TAX LAW (94%); TAX REFORM (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); VETO (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PETITIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); POLITICS (75%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) BILL CLINTON (77%); NEWT GINGRICH (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



443 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1647 words

HEADLINE: A Universal Quest for Bargains;
Japanese Flock to Outlet Center in the Hudson Valley

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO 

DATELINE: CENTRAL VALLEY, N.Y.

 BODY:
Machiko Takenaka, 25, a self-described "office lady" from Tokyo, was on a whirlwind tour of New York City. The day before, she had seen "Cats." She was bound for a Mets game in the afternoon. But on this lovely spring morning, she had carved out time for that supreme Japanese-tourist pastime: shopping. Gucci, Max Mara and Anne Klein were just a few of the stores on her itinerary.
Rather than hit Madison Avenue, however, she had boarded a bus at the Port Authority terminal, rolling north through the reed-cloaked marshlands of New Jersey, past car dealerships and tanning salons and into the foothills of the Catskill Mountains. There, a kind of retail heaven awaited her, a seemingly incongruous crossroads where luxury and bargain shopping meet. 
 Many New Yorkers are unaware of Woodbury Common, a 220-store complex an hour north of New York City where designers like Versace, Christian Dior and Prada (masquerading under the name Space) have quietly opened discount outlet stores in recent years. But to the Japanese tourist, the outlet center -- a kind of prefabricated New England village plunked down in the middle of nowhere -- is hallowed ground, a must-do destination for even the most abbreviated trip to New York.
"It has become famous in Japan," said Ms. Takenaka in halting English, her shoulder supporting a Prada bag that held the $300 she had budgeted for the day's shopping spree.
The yen has fallen against the dollar to its lowest level in years, and the economic crisis in Asia has led to a modest decline in Japanese tourism. But because of regulatory controls and an unwieldy distribution system in Japan, most consumer goods in the United States are still far cheaper for the Japanese than those in their own country.
"The Japanese love to shop," said Kurt Barnard, president of Barnard's Retail Trend Report, a company in Upper Montclair, N.J., that tracks national consumer spending patterns. "They're very label-conscious and they want bargains."
"So when they come here," he said, "they see the prices and say, 'Oh my God, this is one-half the price it is over there,' despite the fact that the yen has lost so much of its value. I think that Woodbury Common is exceedingly well positioned to take advantage of that."
Madison Avenue is certainly more convenient than Woodbury Common for foreign tourists in New York City. But not wanting to compete with themselves, high-end designers prefer to place outlet stores, which sell excess inventory from previous seasons, a good distance from their bread and butter: full-price, in-season merchandise. For the status-seeking, bargain-conscious consumer, the trip to Central Valley is a small sacrifice.
Six major Japanese tour operators include a trip to the outlet center, either as part of their standard package or as an option. One operator, Ano Hallo Tours in New York, reported that a trek to Woodbury Common was the most popular daytime activity for the 16,000 Japanese tourists the company brings to New York each year, beating visits to the Statue of Liberty and the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
At first, Chelsea GCA Realty, the company that owns and operates Woodbury Common Premium Outlets, as it is officially called, along with 20 similar centers across the country, sat back and marveled at the trend. Lately, however, Chelsea, with headquarters in Roseland, N.J., has begun to court the Japanese shopper.
The company now holds workshops every few months for employees at the outlet center, providing tips on how best to serve Japanese customers. Salesclerks are told that it is wrong to approach the customer aggressively. They are encouraged to place change on a tray, following Japanese custom, rather than in the shopper's hand.
The outlet center opened in 1985, and by 1995 had become a Japanese tourist attraction, a phenomenon not limited to metropolitan New York. The realty company said its outlet centers in Cabazon, Calif., outside Palm Springs, and in Waipahu, Hawaii, also see throngs of Japanese shoppers.
(What the unwary shopper may not realize is that some of the stores at Woodbury Common also sell clothing lines that they have created only for the outlet store, clothes made of cheaper fabrics, for instance.)
Earlier this year, Chelsea GCA started to advertise in the half-dozen Japanese women's magazines that appeal to so-called office ladies: young women who are hired by Japanese companies to perform low-level clerical work and serve tea. Such women are not only savvy about the latest fashions but also have disposable income, because they tend to live rent-free with their parents until they marry.
Chelsea has also hired an employee fluent in Japanese to help staff the information booth at the outlet center. It distributes Japanese-language size-conversion charts, a list of stores that carry clothes in sizes 2 and 4, which many Japanese women wear, and maps to the complex.
Some designer labels are more popular than others among young Japanese women, and Gucci, the high-end Italian designer, seems to occupy the summit. Gucci officials say 60 percent of the outlet store's business comes from Japanese shoppers. "When they get off the bus, they run, literally run, to the Gucci building," said Michele Rothstein, Chelsea GCA's vice president for marketing, who visits the center frequently. "On certain days, you see them on line waiting to get in. They're dressed in black, head to toe."
Max Mara, an Italian designer, is another big draw. "I'd say 40 percent to 50 percent of our business is coming from the Japanese," said Rose Liss, the store manager.
An example of the kind of bargain available at the Max Mara outlet store, Ms. Liss said, is a suit from the spring 1997 line that originally sold in Manhattan for $900 but that can now be snapped up for a mere $500.
Tomoe Harano, a 23-year-old salesclerk in a Calvin Klein store in Tokyo, was spending part of her vacation in New York looking for just those sorts of bargains. It wasn't yet lunchtime, and already she had spent $1,000 on clothes and accessories. Draping her arms were shopping bags from Coach, Tahari, Kenneth Cole, Esprit and Max Mara. Next stop: Ralph Lauren.
She gave a thumbs up at the Max Mara cash register as her traveling companion, Haruna Aoki, 28, a pattern maker for Calvin Klein in Tokyo, translated with a broad smile: "Japan does not have a shopping center like this."
The manager of the Tahari outlet store said she once received a call from a woman who wanted directions to Woodbury Common from the airport. "She had a chauffeur, and they were coming straight here," the manager, Ro Joyce, recalled. "I mean, she wasn't even stopping at her hotel first."
In 1995, the most recent year for which statistics are available, Japanese visitors to New York City spent more per day, $279, than visitors of any other nationality, according to a Federal survey of airline passengers. But Brazilians actually spent more per visit, the survey found. That is because the average stay for a Brazilian tourist in the city lasts six days, compared with three days for the Japanese traveler.
Some economists say the willingness of Japanese tourists to spend hundreds of dollars in the United States points up the flaws in Japan's economic framework. Japan is notorious, they say, for regulations that force companies from various industries to use certain distributors and discourage cost-cutting measures that could result in savings for consumers.
"Japan has a massive problem with getting competition into the system," said Steven Clemons, executive vice president of the Economic Strategy Institute, a policy center in Washington that studies domestic and international industry and trade.
"The purchasing power of these ladies flying clear across the world to spend money an hour north of the city demonstrates that if the Japanese Government got more competition into its system it would see extraordinary economic growth," Mr. Clemons added. "It's a big message for the Japanese Government to deregulate."
The Japanese Government sees things differently. Akihiko Tamura, a representative of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry at the Japanese Embassy in Washington, said he was bothered by the amount of shopping done by Japanese tourists in the United States.
But he defended the regulatory system in Japan. "I believe it's wrong to argue that every regulation is evil," he said. "Regulations are based on a balance of interests, not only for the consumer but the producer as well. Each regulation very frequently has some public reason to exist, be it safety or health or welfare."
As the Japanese economy has worsened in recent years and the buying power of the yen has declined, there is evidence that Japanese tourists are becoming increasingly cost-conscious. When articles on Woodbury Common first started to appear in the Japanese press in the late 1980's, for instance, there was scant mention that the outlet center sold discounted goods.
"The articles would focus only on the brands and the selection and the beautiful Hudson River Valley," Ms. Rothstein said. "We were like, 'Wait a minute, this is great value,' and they were like, 'Well, yeah, but it's just a nice place to visit with a lot of great labels.' Now, the value component has shifted to a much more prominent place in the story."
At times there seems to be a frantic quality to the buying at Woodbury Common, an enthusiasm barely contained by a paper shopping bag. Some shoppers first stop off at the Samsonite Company Store in anticipation of the day's haul. Or they come in at the end, laden with shopping bags like ornaments on a tree.
"We see this every day there is a tourist bus," said Carolynn Morrissey, acting assistant manager of the Samsonite store. "They unload their bags into their new suitcases and we get stuck with the garbage."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The shoppers' outlets at Woodbury Common in Central Valley, N.Y., have become an essential stop for Japanese visitors. Japanese shoppers can do business in their own language at Woodbury Common, including signing receipts. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. B1); For many Japanese visitors to New York, even a three-day stay requires a shopping trip by bus to Woodbury Common in Central Valley. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. B4)
 
Map of New York: Woodbury Common has become a must for many Japanese tourists. (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CDI (PAR) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (56%); SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: WOODBURY COMMON (MALL) (CENTRAL VALLEY, NY) CHRISTIAN DIOR SA (56%); NEW YORK METS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WOODBURY COMMON (MALL) (CENTRAL VALLEY, NY) NEW YORK METS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CENTRAL VALLEY (NY); JAPAN; UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (74%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; DISCOUNT SELLING; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; SHOPPING CENTERS RETAILERS (90%); TOUR OPERATORS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (76%); MOUNTAINS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); TRENDS (71%); PORT AUTHORITIES (70%); TANNING SALONS (69%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (68%); JAPANESE YEN (64%); NEW CAR DEALERS (55%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: FODERARO, LISA W MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



444 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Stocks Rally After Moves To Bolster Yen

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

 BODY:
The stock market staged a powerful rally yesterday after the United States and Japan bought yen to bolster the sagging currency, which has threatened to plunge Asia into a deeper economic crisis.
Worries that financial instability in Japan and Southeast Asia would result in a global slowdown this year that would cut even deeper into the already slumping profits of American companies had punished share prices in the United States for the last few weeks. 
 But investors stampeded back into the market yesterday after the United States Government and the Bank of Japan moved to bolster the value of the Japanese yen, partly in the hope of preventing a deeper economic and currency crisis in Japan and the rest of Asia.
After plunging Monday more than 207 points, or 2.3 percent, on fears of a widening crisis in Asia, enthusiastic buying sent the Dow Jones industrial average soaring 164.17 points, or 1.89 percent, yesterday to close at 8,829.46.
Scores of companies that had been battered recently by a huge wave of selloffs roared back to life in one of the heaviest trading days of the year with more than 744 million shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange. While a wide majority of stocks gained, technology and blue-chip issues led the recovery.
"The market had been going down because of Japan -- Japan was the new wrinkle in Southeast Asia," said Byron R. Wien, the United States investment strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "But now it looks like there's intervention and that Japan's going to deal with its problems, and that is a clear positive for the markets."
In fact, Wall Street's big rally sparked a comeback in Japan early today. At the midday break, the Nikkei index of 225 issues was up 4.4 percent, or 647.11 points, to 15,362.49.
The Government's decision to buy Japanese yen with dollars, coupled with promises that Japanese officials would address the deepening banking crisis there, also helped lift the value of the Japanese currency, which had fallen close to an eight-year low on Monday at 146.15 yen to the dollar.
Yesterday, the value of the yen reached 136.37.
United States bond prices, however, plummeted after rising sharply in the last week on the prospect that Asia's economic slowdown would benefit bondholders by dragging down commodity prices and helping stave off inflationary pressure. The yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.73 yesterday from 5.65 on Tuesday.
For investors yesterday's events were not a clear indication that corporate profits, which are expected to be hurt in the coming year by a strong dollar and falling demand in Asia, were no longer in jeopardy.
"The Asia problem is clearly not going to go away easily," said Edward Yardeni, chief economist at Deutsche Morgan Grenfell. "Investors would like to believe it's going to go away, but it's already clearly had an impact on earnings."
Indeed, in the last few weeks several large multinational companies have warned that the Asian economic crisis would depress earnings growth this year.
Although the United States economy continues to grow at a robust pace, with few signs of inflation, slowing profit growth in the first quarter of the year and worries that Asia's festering crisis would pinch profits even more led to a sharp selloff beginning in mid-April, after the Dow peaked at 9,211.84.
But yesterday, investors helped ignite the Dow, which soared as much as 230 points before a late wave of selling pushed the index lower. Meanwhile, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 19.52, or 1.79 percent, to 1,107.11, and the Nasdaq composite gained 1.33 percent, to 1,776.40.
Oil stocks gained after the price of oil soared on reports that the leaders of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries would move to establish more oil production cuts. Tobacco stocks, which rose modestly, may rise higher today because the Senate voted to reject a tobacco bill aimed at curbing smoking.
To prolong the rally, analysts say that Japanese officials are going to have to do much more than commit to banking reform and stimulus packages. "This is potentially a watershed event for the financial crisis," said Jeffrey Applegate, the chief investment strategist at Lehman Brothers. "However, the real economy in Japan is still going down. But what was crucial for the markets was to see a policy response. And that's what you're seeing now."
Mr. Wien of Morgan Stanley added that a big selloff might yet come later this year if things do not change, at home and in Asia. "This is a rally on the promise Japan will do something," he said. "So we'll have to see what Japan does, and then assess whether it's enough."

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since June 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C7)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); ASIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN (99%); ASIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE; CURRENCY; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS STOCK INDEXES (95%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BONDS (89%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BANK FAILURES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INFLATION (72%); TRENDS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



445 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-16
 
Albright Seeks to Improve U.S. Relations With Iran
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright invited Iranians to join with the United States in drawing up "a road map leading to normal relations." Ms. Albright said it was time to find ways to bridge the gap between the two nations. A1 

Mohammad Hadi Nejad Hosseinian, Iran's senior diplomat at the United Nations, accused the Clinton Administration of continuing a hostile policy toward Iran. He also defended Teheran's rejection of Washington's offer for an official dialogue. A16
 
Holbrooke to Get U.N. Post
President Clinton will name Richard C. Holbrooke the United States representative at the United Nations, replacing Bill Richardson, who will become Secretary of Energy, senior Administration officials said. A1
 
Warning on War Crimes Court
Mr. Richardson warned delegates to a United Nations conference not to turn a proposed international criminal court into "a human rights ombudsman open to, and responsible for responding to, any and all complaints from any source." A7
 
India Calls U.S. Hypocritical
India's Defense Minister, George Fernandes, said President Clinton should explain why the United States believed it could "trust China with nuclear weapons" while imposing economic sanctions on India for seeking a nuclear deterrent to threats from its nuclear-armed neighbors, China and Pakistan. A6
 
Charting China's Rockets
A Pentagon official who monitored nuclear proliferation during the Bush Administration offered a chart at a House hearing that showed that between 1990 and 1996 one in four Chinese rockets carrying commercial satellites blew up; since 1996, the Chinese have had 10 consecutive successful launchings. A6
 
NATO Says It Warned Russia
Western officials said that top NATO officials formally notified Russia about Monday's aerial military exercises in the Balkans two days before they took place. Russian officials have complained that they were left in the dark. A14
 
Fehmi Agani, the head of the four-member Kosovo Albanian team named to negotiate with Yugoslavia on the future of Kosovo province, said that Yugoslav forces must leave the province before any talks could begin. A15
 
Israeli Youths Held in Killing
Two Israeli teen-agers living in a hostel for troubled youths in a Jewish settlement near Hebron were jailed after a Palestinian farmer was killed on a West Bank roadside when, the authorities said, the youths hit him with a pole from a passing van. A4
 
Burying the Last Czar
The burial of the remains of Nicholas II, Russia's last Czar, and his family will not be attended by the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, President Boris N. Yeltsin nor representatives of Russia's old nobility. A3
 
NATIONAL A20-33
 
Senate Knocks Down Tobacco-Regulation Bill
The Senate jettisoned broad legislation meant to discourage teen-agers from smoking, the most ambitious and contentious measure before Congress, and left almost no chance it could be revived this year. President Clinton made it clear that he would make the failure of the bill an issue in Congressional campaigns. A1
 
Hesitancy on Satellite Sale
The Clinton Administration is rethinking whether to allow one of the biggest satellite sales to date, a $650 million deal with China that Mr. Clinton approved two years ago. A1
 
Pictures of H.I.V. at Work
Scientists have taken the first snapshots of the contact made by the AIDS virus as it snares its two target sites on the surface of a human cell. The pictures bring to light certain weak points against which new drugs and perhaps vaccines may be designed, but they also confirm in some researchers the view that the AIDS vaccine recently approved for testing is unlikely to work. A1
 
Why Some Young People Die
Researchers said some young people's deaths apparently resulted from an unusual and chance conjunction of events: a moderate blow to a precise spot at a particular moment in the heart's cycle of beating. A32
 
Vote on Campaign Financing
The House rejected a measure considered to be one of the main threats to a bipartisan bill to ban unregulated campaign contributions. A26
 
House Calls for New Tax Code
The House took the largely symbolic step of voting to require Congress to devise a new tax system by mid-2002 and scrap the current code. A32
 
Focus on Ethnic Studies
Ward Connerly, who led the effort to eliminate affirmative action at California's public universities, suggested that he might try to curtail ethnic studies programs. A20
 
Anti-Drug Fighter Fires Back
Gen. Barry R. McCaffrey, the White House's top drug policy official, accused critics of the nation's zero-tolerance drug laws of pursuing an agenda to legalize illicit drugs. A29
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
Vendor Ban Is Lifted, But Panel Will Revisit It
The Street Vendor Review Panel, which is dominated by appointees of Mayor Giuliani, voted to rescind a ban on vending on 144 Manhattan blocks that was to take effect next month. But the panel also voted to reconsider the issue this summer, after more testimony, leaving many vendors believing that they had won a reprieve, not a victory. B1
 
Brawley Testimony Ends
Testimony concluded in the Tawana Brawley defamation lawsuit, after seven months and more than two dozen witnesses. B1
 
City Studies Harbor Casino
A Coopers & Lybrand study commissioned by New York City concluded that a gambling casino at the southern tip of Governors Island would provide the most revenue of any development options being considered, easily financing preservation of the island's historic northern part. B3
 
A Change for Special Education
The Board of Education voted to give principals and district superintendents direct authority over the evaluation teams that determine which students need particular attention. B3
 
Wrapping Up in Albany
State lawmakers remained deeply divided on many major issues, like parole rules, charter schools and health care for poor children, as their session neared conclusion. B5
 
ARTS E1-12
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-16
 
CIRCUITS G1-16
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
A Baseball Commissioner
Bud Selig, the acting baseball commissioner, was said to have decided to take the job officially. C1
 
League Suspends Pitcher
The American League suspended the Yankee pitcher Mike Stanton for five games, for hitting Baltimore's Eric Davis with a pitch on Monday. C1
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-20
 
U.S. Halts Yen's Slide
The United States took currency markets by surprise and, along with Japan, bought yen to stop the precipitous fall of the Japanese currency, a move that President Clinton said he hoped would stem the Asian economic crisis. A1
 
Traders and analysts wondered if they had been set up for a fall by their interpretation, even if it was wrong, of the Treasury Secretary's sell signal on the yen last week. D1
 
The stock market rallied after the United States and Japan bought yen. The Dow rose 164.17 points, or 1.89 percent, to 8,829.46. The S.& P. 500 gained 19.52, or 1.79 percent, to 1,107.11, and the Nasdaq was up 23.28, or 1.33 percent, to 1,776.40. D1
 
Prudential Reorganization Plan
New Jersey lawmakers are to vote today on legislation governing the reorganization of Prudential Insurance. Consumer advocates warned that the plan contained loopholes. D1
 
AOL Going It Alone
America Online said it would remain independent, after cooling off merger talks with AT&T. D2
 
Business Digest D1
 
OBITUARIES B11
 
EDITORIAL A34-35
 
Editorials: Death of the tobacco bill; a strong international court; flawed approaches to parole reform; accepting for "Citizen Kane" . . .
 
Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.
 
Bridge E8
 
Public Lives B2
 
Crossword E6
 
Weather B12

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); INDIA (93%); CHINA (93%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); ALBANIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAN (73%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (56%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (56%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); INDIA (93%); CHINA (93%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); ALBANIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAN (73%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (88%); ADOLESCENTS (84%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); WAR CRIMES (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); JEWS & JUDAISM (65%); RELIGION (64%); SMOKING (61%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); BILL RICHARDSON (78%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



446 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
U.S. JOINS JAPAN IN SURPRISE MOVE TO SHORE UP YEN

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 17

 BODY:
The United States took global financial markets by surprise today, joining Japan in buying yen to stop the precipitous fall of the Japanese currency. President Clinton said he hoped the move would stem the worsening Asian economic crisis.
The two countries spent an estimated $4 billion worth of dollars in a coordinated purchase of yen in the foreign-exchange markets, pushing up the yen more than 5 percent within hours. Stock markets reacted exuberantly, and the Dow Jones industrial average surged 164.17 points, or nearly 2 percent, erasing most of its steep losses earlier in the week on apprehensions about Japan's weakness. Page D1. 
 Speaking briefly in the Rose Garden this morning, Mr. Clinton said he approved the rare action to sell dollars and buy yen after speaking by telephone with Japan's Prime Minister, Ryutaro Hashimoto, near midnight on Tuesday. The President said Mr. Hashimoto committed to specific economic changes that go beyond Japan's past pledges.
But a list of actions released by the Japanese Finance Ministry hours later -- promising closings of weak banks and accelerated spending on public works projects -- appear to restate and go only modestly beyond Japan's past agreements. These pledged to deregulate the economy, clean up a banking system awash in $600 billion worth of bad debts, and change the tax system to stimulate an economy suffering its worst downturn in the postwar era.
"We've got a chance to turn that situation in Asia around before it gets any worse," Mr. Clinton said today. "America needs a strong, growing, stable economy in Asia."
The action was evidently motivated, as well, by public statements from China, where Mr. Clinton begins a nine-day visit next week, that it might be forced to devalue its own currency if the yen continued to fall.
At a White House meeting on Tuesday night, Mr. Clinton's top economic and security aides warned that a Chinese devaluation could touch off a far more fearsome phase of the Asian crisis, which began nearly a year ago with sharp devaluations of some Southeast Asian currencies.
Some members of his Cabinet remained skeptical that Prime Minister Hashimoto would deliver on the vague promises he made today. The decision to intervene was hotly debated inside the Treasury and the Federal Reserve.
Secretary of the Treasury Robert E. Rubin, who has said currency intervention does not necessarily work, had tentatively decided not to recommend any action on Tuesday evening, but changed his mind only an hour before making a final recommendation to the President.
Mr. Rubin was ultimately swayed to act because of last-minute Japanese offers for a few more specific commitments and indications that traders in the currency markets, who had battered the yen to a series of eight-year lows in recent selloffs, were beginning to buy yen again.
That was a turnaround that Mr. Rubin, a former investment banker and currency trader, believed he could exploit and accelerate.
But the essential motivation was a growing sense in Washington and Asian capitals that the continued fall of the yen could ricochet to markets around the world, further destabilizing Russia, China and Latin America -- and perhaps then even the United States. "The chances were remote," Mr. Rubin said today. But he added that if a major crisis were to develop, "the effects in our own nation could be great."
Currency traders said the intervention, conducted by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, appeared to be on the order of $1.5 billion to $2 billion of dollar sales for yen, with a simultaneous move of similar magnitude by the Bank of Japan, the central bank there.
That is far less than the $20 billion Japan spent in April, with little effect, to support its own currency.
But the psychological effect of the American action today -- and the suggestion that more is on the way -- was immediate, if perhaps temporary. The Japanese currency, which touched 146 to the dollar earlier this week, fell back to about 137, a 5.2 percent drop that returned it to the levels of a month ago. The Dow Jones average and other stock indexes increased. In Asian dealings early Thursday, the yen strengthened to 136 to the dollar, Japanese stocks rose 4.4 percent and Hong Kong shares soared a further 6.4 percent.
Yet, it was far from clear that the joint effort by the Federal Reserve and Japanese would offer more than a respite from what a senior Administration official called "a massive crisis of confidence among investors in Japan."
John Lipsky, chief economist at Chase Manhattan Bank, said, "The timing and the context suggest a finger in the dike" -- a view echoed by many traders, who doubted that the yen's bounce back could last in the absence of a major change of course by Japan.
Mr. Rubin had told Congress last week that currency interventions were of limited use unless investors are "convinced by the economic fundamentals." That means a series of unpopular steps to clean up the Japanese economy -- bank closings, corporate downsizing, big deficit spending -- that few Japanese politicians want to even discuss in public before an election for the upper house of Parliament in mid-July.
Mr. Rubin insisted at the White House briefing today that he was not backing away from the Clinton Administration's strong-dollar policy, arguing that it had "served our interests very well."
Currency traders appeared to take that at face value, though today's action suggested that the United States viewed the dollar's value as nearing its upper limits.
Hours after the currency intervention began, the Administration sent Mr. Rubin's deputy, Lawrence H. Summers, and William J. McDonough, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, to Tokyo for consultations. Underscoring the sense that the Asian crisis was fast worsening, the Group of Seven industrial nations announced that they would hold a meeting of deputy finance ministers Saturday in Tokyo.
The politics of President Clinton's trip to China also weighed heavily on today's decision. Over the weekend, China accused the United States and Japan of worsening the Asia crisis by letting the yen fall, and in a series of messages to Treasury officials in the last few days, it began hinting that pressure was growing to devalue China's currency, the yuan.
American officials have long feared that such a move would set off devaluations around the world.
"What this proves is that the depths of the Asian crisis are much, much worse than anticipated," C. Fred Bergsten, president of the Institute for International Economics here, said today. "What spurred this is that many in Asia are talking about their version of our Great Depression." Officials of the World Bank have also begun to use the word "depression," and they said today they now expected the Asian economic crisis to last years.
Japan has added to the problems immeasurably. Its economy accounts for 70 percent of all economic activity in Asia. So its deep recession -- the economy shrank at an annual rate of 5.3 percent in the first quarter of this year -- has added to the region's pain in several ways.
Japan is not buying goods produced in Southeast Asia. The flight of investors from Japan, including many Japanese who are now free to put their money into other currencies because of liberalized financial rules, has intensified troubles -- sending the yen spiraling downward 15 percent in recent months. That makes Japanese goods less expensive in the United States and other countries -- pushing out goods produced by other Asians.
As the yen dropped day after day, investors began to flee the currencies of other countries. For example, the Indonesian rupiah, which many expected to recover after the resignation of President Suharto, has sunk to new lows -- 15,250 to the dollar. Before the Asian economic crisis, it took about 2,400 rupiah to buy a dollar. As a result, Indonesian banks and businesses that borrowed abroad -- often from Japanese banks -- have stopped repaying debts. That worsens the problems in Tokyo.
Mr. Rubin has been saying for weeks that Japan is the biggest threat to Asia's recovery. But he had resisted calls to intervene in the markets, declaring that "ultimately, currency markets follow fundamentals." In this case, the fundamentals meant a restructuring of a Japanese economy from top to bottom.
It is a risky bet. If the markets determine soon that the changes in Japan are not genuine, currency traders may soon renew their selloff of the yen. That will force Mr. Rubin to decide whether to throw more money into the pot, in hopes of instilling fear in traders that they might get caught with too many dollars and too few yen.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). (pg. D5)
 
Chart: "First It Won't, Then It Does: The U.S. Rushes In to Support the Yen"
After watching the yen fall to its lowest level in eight years, the United States and Japan staged a dramatic intervention in foreign exchange markets yesterday, spending billions of dollars to buy yen and prop up its value. The decision came less than a week after Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin left the impression that the United States would not intervene.
 
YEN TO A DOLLAR, PLOTTED EVERY FIVE MINUTES SCALE IS INVERTED TO SHOW RISING VALUE OF THE YEN
 
THURSDAY
 
10 A.M.-NOON -- Secretary Rubin tells Congress Japan must strengthen its economy. His remarks are interpreted to mean the United States will not help defend the yen.
 
FRIDAY
 
4-5 A.M. -- Japan says its economy shrank 0.7 percent for fiscal 1997, its worst postwar performance.
 
NOON -- China's Ambassador to the United States asks the Group of Seven nations to support the yen.
 
MONDAY
 
6-9 A.M. -- Li Peng, China's legislative leader, rebukes Japan for failing to stabilize its economy and halt the yen's decline. His comments stir fears that China will devalue its currency, setting off a deeper crisis in Asia.
 
TUESDAY
 
MIDNIGHT-9 A.M. -- Rumors spread that the Bank of Japan will begin buying yen.
 
1-2 P.M. -- The Treasury indicates that Deputy Secretary Lawrence H. Summers, Mr. Rubin's chief trouble-shooter, will visit Japan.
 
WEDNESDAY
 
8 A.M. -- The Federal Reserve and Bank of Japan buy yen to lift its value.
 
11:30 A.M. -- Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto promises to take steps to improve Japan's economy.
 
CUMULATIVE CHANGE IN THE VALUE OF EACH INDEX (Dow Jones industrial average; Hang Seng; Nikkei 225)
 
(Sources: Bridge Information Systems; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; CHINA; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION BANKING & FINANCE (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); DEVALUATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); TRENDS (73%); BANK FAILURES (72%); APPROVALS (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (54%); TAXES & TAXATION (53%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HASHIMOTO, RYUTARO (PRIME MIN); SANGER, DAVID E; RUBIN, ROBERT E (SEC) BILL CLINTON (91%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



447 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Study Sees High Revenue in a Governors Island Casino

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN 

 BODY:
A new study commissioned by the Mayor's office to look at the future of Governors Island has concluded that high-class gambling casino would provide the most revenue of any development option being considered -- more than enough to meet the expense of preserving the historic northern part of the island.
The study by the consulting firm of Coopers & Lybrand showed that a casino could generate as much as $57.5 million a year in revenue to the city, more than three times as much money as the combination of a hotel and conference center with residential development. Other uses generated even less. 
 The island, which is in New York Harbor and is owned by the Federal Government, has a number of historic buildings and offers stunning views of lower Manhattan, but it has been largely deserted since the Coast Guard shut down its operations there almost a year ago. President Clinton offered to turn the site over to New York provided the city and state could come up with a redevelopment plan that would benefit the public.
Parks advocates, preservationists and some politicians have urged the city to come up with proposals, fearing that otherwise the Government might sell the island to the highest bidder. But Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has repeatedly said the city could not afford the cost of restoring and maintaining the historic buildings unless the development plan generated significant revenues.
The Mayor said the city's major concern was to avoid "hundreds of millions of dollars of liability" if it accepts the President's offer.
"The purpose of this is to put some reality into a dream that has been largely unreal," Mr. Giuliani said. "Preliminary to doing something useful with Governors Island is knowing how much it will cost. It will cost a huge amount of money."
Gambling could be the source of that money. A separate study also released yesterday by the investment firm of Bear Stearns & Company, which was conducted independent of the city's study, estimated that a casino on Governors Island would attract 5.7 million visitors a year and generate $340 million in revenues.
But several hurdles must be removed before anyone pulls a slot-machine lever there. Casino gambling is still illegal in New York State, and to change the law, two separate legislative sessions must pass an amendment to the State Constitution and voters in New York City must vote in a referendum. In Washington, city legislators worried that President Clinton or Congress might retract the offer to New York if casino gambling was in the island's future.
"There is a strong contingent in Congress that hates gambling," Representative Carolyn B. Maloney said.
Representative Jerrold B. Nadler said, "As long as the Mayor keeps talking casino, he's stopping the process."
Representatives Maloney and Nadler are sponsoring a bill to set up a special commission composed of Federal, state and city appointees to address the island's future.
Deputy Mayor Randy Levine said that the city is still interested in other options and will soon request ideas from housing and commercial developers, as well as casinos. He said that on Monday, a group from Tivoli Gardens, the Copenhagen amusement park, visited the island.
Mayor Giuliani said the city estimates the annual cost of maintaining the island at more than $40 million. In addition, he released a report on public works improvements prepared by the consulting firm of Frederic R. Harris Inc. for Turner Construction Company under a city contract. It showed that the cost of improvements to roads, utilities and piers, among other things, would range from $20.5 million to $45.3 million, depending on the option chosen.
This study concerned, as did the analysis of economic benefits, only the 25 southernmost acres on the island, which were built on landfill from the Lexington Avenue subway. Neither study included any acquisition costs, though Mr. Giuliani said he feared that a budget-conscious Republican Congress would never allow President Clinton's $1 offer to become law -- particularly when existing legislation mandates its sale for $500 million.
The gambling projection includes 100,000 square feet of gambling space; a 1,000-room hotel; 2,200 gambling positions, including 1,500 slot machines and 120 tables, and a luxury spa and health club. A 24-hour ferry service was assumed. In addition, the study suggested that other residential and commercial possibilities could coexist with the casino, adding to the economic benefit.
The Bear Stearns report seemed to suggest that the city's assumptions might be too modest for utmost profitability. It suggested that 3,500 positions would be needed to "offer sufficient critical mass to exploit peak gaming periods fully."
The investment firm also said that 15,750 patrons would have to be taken to the island each day. By contrast, Coopers & Lybrand estimates a daily average of 8,000 visitors, with 12,000 coming during the peak days of Friday and Saturday.
The Bear Stearns report went further and looked at the entire gambling market in the city, and estimated potential revenues of $2.63 billion annually if casino gambling were legal. That would make the city third in the gambling market, behind Atlantic City and Las Vegas.
But opposition to gambling remains strong in New York State, cutting across class, ideology and religion. Representative Nadler suggested some of the basis for the antigambling sentiment when he asked if the city considered noneconomic factors in its study. "Did they factor in the costs of additional child abandonment, divorces and bankruptcies?" he asked. "Those things always happen."
Others also faulted the city for not taking more factors into account. Peg Breen, president of the New York Landmarks Conservancy, which has urged more open dialogue about Governors Island, said the city's study raises more questions than it answers. "Will we even get gambling?" she asked. "How long is it going to take? What happens to the island in the interim?"
But the Mayor seemed persuaded on the economics of gambling for Governors Island, though he acknowledged that political difficulties remain. "There are probably are other attractions," he said. "The one that works on paper is gaming."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "SCENARIOS: Remaking Governors Island" lists estimated revenue from proposed gambling center on Governors Island. (Source: Coopers and Lybrand L.L.P.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COOPERS & LYBRAND BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (64%); REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: COOPERS & LYBRAND REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GOVERNORS ISLAND (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; CASINOS CASINOS (91%); MAYORS (90%); GAMING (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); POLITICS (73%); REFERENDUMS (71%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (60%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (55%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, DOUGLAS; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (78%); BILL CLINTON (73%); CAROLYN MALONEY (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



448 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 119 words

HEADLINE: Schools Don't Need Web

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Keep Internet Funding for Schools" (editorial, June 12): The 1996 Telecommunications Act was intended to address the widening economic gap between low-income and affluent communities. Access to computers in underserved schools gives disadvantaged students a step up and frees constrained budgets to identify educational necessities. 
 In a recent seven-year study we found that home computers and Internet access could turn around a significant number of underachieving inner-city students and encourage learning among their family members.
 
HELEN BIRENBAUM
New York, June 12, 1998
 
The writer is executive director of the Stanton-Heiskell Center, CUNY Graduate School.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KEEP INTERNET FUNDING (69%); CUNY GRADUATE SCHOOL (64%); STANTON-HEISKELL CENTER (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: KEEP INTERNET FUNDING (69%); CUNY GRADUATE SCHOOL (64%); STANTON-HEISKELL CENTER (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (88%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (87%); WRITERS (86%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (85%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (84%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (84%); CITY LIFE (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: BIRENBAUM, HELEN MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



449 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Street Vendors Win Reprieve From Giuliani

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN 

 BODY:
Sidewalk vendors, who had faced banishment from many of their most lucrative corners, won a reprieve yesterday when Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani took the rare step of backing off a major crusade in his quality-of-life campaign.
Giuliani administration officials, who dominate the city panel that determines where vending is allowed, voted to rescind the 144-block ban on vending that was to take effect next month and to reconsider it later this summer after seeking additional testimony. 
 In Manhattan's financial district, some customers toasted the decision with bottles of Snapple bought from their favorite vendors' carts. But few peddlers joined in the celebration, saying that they believed they had won just a temporary reprieve.
Indeed, Deputy Mayor Rudy Washington said the administration planned to pursue the regulation of vendors. He said the panel, the Street Vendor Review Panel, was re-examining its votes of May 20 on the advice of lawyers and in response to public outcry.
"We know that as soon as we close one block, we're off to court," Mr. Washington said. "It doesn't hurt anything to take a second, back up and take in more evidence. We'll have a more bulletproof case, and at the same time do the right thing that strikes the right balance."
Dr. Ester R. Fuchs, the director of the Barnard-Columbia Center for Urban Policy, and a persistent Giuliani critic, said that the Mayor would have risked permanent damage to his reputation if he had pursued plans to put strong limits on vending.
"His targets since the last election have been the disenfranchised, or people who have little political power," she said. "The piece of this puzzle which the Mayor forgot was that the patrons of the street vendors are generally working people who probably voted for Rudy Giuliani."
Two of the Mayor's top advisers, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said Mr. Giuliani had no intention of abandoning his crackdown on vendors, since he still felt that street peddlers undermined civility by causing congestion and sanitation problems. But one adviser said the Mayor realized he had "articulated badly" his reasons for the crackdown. The other said the Mayor was concerned about being perceived as "governing by fiat."
At his daily news conference yesterday, Mr. Giuliani said that he and his panel were trying to "strike the right balance" between street vendors and restaurants, which lose money to the carts.
"What they wanted to do was to listen to more businesses and more vendors to make sure that the plan they put into effect is a sensitive one and a good one, and accomplishes the purpose of allowing people to remain in business, and doesn't have a deleterious effect on the businesses that presently exist," Mr. Giuliani said.
Mr. Giuliani said he had not yet decided what changes the review panel -- made up of three Giuliani appointees and one member named by the City Council -- should make.
Jeffrey J. Cicio, president of the largest trade group, the Big Apple Food Vendors Association, laughed when he was told about the panel's action. "This is a just a smoke screen," he said. "They got a lot of bad press, and they realized they made a mistake. It got a little too hot in the kitchen, so they shut off the burners. But this Mayor is not giving up."
Mr. Cicio said he was pinning his hopes on the City Council, which is considering at least three bills to disband the Street Vendor Review Panel and regulate the carts in other ways.
Officials of business improvement districts, which are financed by an assessment on commercial land in certain parts of the city, requested most of the proposed street closings. But BID officials said they have unfairly absorbed the brunt of bad publicity for the panel's decisions and had encouraged a City Council proposal that would limit vendors to one cart for each intersection instead of closing whole blocks.
Thomas Cusick, president of a major BID, the Fifth Avenue Association, said he supported the cooling-off period. He said many of his colleagues in the BID's would continue to work for a compromise.
The planned street closings, originally to go into effect in late July, were concentrated in midtown and lower Manhattan. Although the food vendors inspired the most visible public support, the rules would also have applied to street artists and sellers of books and general merchandise.
Yesterday's meeting of the Street Vendor Review Panel had been called to begin consideration of a second round of closings, based on scores of petitions from a wide range of institutions, including community boards and the Museum of Modern Art. But the meeting lasted less than three minutes, and new closings never came up.
The chairwoman, Deborah R. Weeks, proposed reconsidering the closings approved on May 20, and to accept written comments about them until July 1. The panel would meet after that, and any street closings would go into effect in September at the earliest. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (60%); STREET VENDOR REVIEW PANEL (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (60%); STREET VENDOR REVIEW PANEL (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; VENDORS, STREET; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (93%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); DEREGULATION (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); LAWYERS (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); POLITICS (64%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: ALLEN, MIKE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); WASHINGTON, RUDY (DEPUTY MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



450 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Holbrooke Chosen To Be U.N. Envoy, Senior Officials Say

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 17

 BODY:
President Clinton has decided to name Richard C. Holbrooke as the American representative at the United Nations, replacing Bill Richardson, who will become Secretary of Energy, senior Administration officials said today.
Mr. Clinton will announce the appointments on Thursday at a White House ceremony, the officials said. 
 The appointment of Mr. Holbrooke, the architect of the Dayton accords that brought a fragile peace to Bosnia, is meant to provide new energy and experience to the United Nations post while allowing Mr. Richardson to have an important domestic platform.
A long-serving member of the House of Representatives from New Mexico before joining the Administration, Mr. Richardson is considered a possible running mate for Vice President Al Gore, should he win the Democratic Presidential nomination in 2000.
Mr. Gore is known to have been a strong supporter of Mr. Holbrooke for the United Nations position, which carries Cabinet rank, while Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright had initially opposed it and the national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, held his fire, seeing the appointment as inevitable, officials said.
Mr. Holbrooke, 57, has been in and out of Government since he joined the Foreign Service in 1962 and spent his first tour in Vietnam. He is best known for the Dayton accords, negotiated in his term as Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs.
He was also Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs from 1977 to 1981.
Ms. Albright helped block Mr. Holbrooke's appointment to the United Nations post at the start of Mr. Clinton's second term, but was unable to do so this time, officials said. Ms. Albright and Mr. Holbrooke were originally rivals to run the State Department, and when she was picked she was reported to have felt that Mr. Holbrooke would be too disruptive to a new team.
Officials close to Ms. Albright dispute that account and said she thought very highly of Mr. Holbrooke and supported his appointment.
"A lot of people can have their suppositions and reservations, but Secretary Albright supported and recommended Richard Holbrooke for this job on the basis of his activism and his experience," a close aide to Ms. Albright said. "She has made clear that she wants to have the strongest possible team at the State Department working on our foreign policy, as evidenced by her choosing Tom Pickering, Stu Eizenstat and Strobe Talbott. And Richard Holbrooke is a powerful addition to it."
Mr. Holbrooke speaks freely with reporters and sometimes tries to move policy in independent ways. He did that in the Balkans last month, when he secured an agreement from the Yugoslav President, Slobodan Milosevic, to talk with ethnic Albanian leaders in Kosovo by suspending the start of sanctions that Ms. Albright had pressed European allies to approve.
That initiative is now widely regarded as a mistake, because Mr. Milosevic used the suspension to crack down in Kosovo.
One official, insisting on anonymity, described Mr. Holbrooke as "like a black hole attracting all the spotlight and so taking it away from others." He wondered whether Mr. Clinton's foreign policy team would be able to keep the image of that unity they had worked so hard to maintain in the second term.
In this term, Mr. Clinton has been more likely to heed Mr. Gore's advice on personnel. Mr. Gore and Mr. Holbrooke originally grew close in Mr. Gore's failed Presidential candidacy in 1988. But Mr. Clinton and Mr. Holbrooke are also said to have established a good relationship.
It was Ms. Albright, as United Nations representative in Mr. Clinton's first term, who insisted that the post carry Cabinet rank and that she participate as a full member of the senior foreign policy team in the so-called Principals' Committee. She used the position to build her reputation for plain-speaking and telegenic foreign-policy sound bites, helping her become Secretary of State.
In public they praise each other highly, and Mr. Holbrooke, in his recent book about his efforts to bring peace to the Balkans, "To End a War," hailed Ms. Albright for her strong views about the need to exercise force on behalf of diplomacy and moral values.
Mr. Berger had also opposed Mr. Holbrooke's appointment to the United Nations at the beginning of the second term, but did not raise serious objections this time, officials said. Mr. Berger, who is vital to managing the policy differences among important Cabinet members and maintaining outward unanimity, is said to regard the appointment "as a management exercise," one official commented.
But the official acknowledged that the Administration was facing numerous foreign policy challenges like nuclear proliferation and economic crises in Asia and Russia.
Mr. Holbrooke, who did not return telephone calls today, has told friends that he was stung by criticism that he is not a team player. He is expected to work hard at dispelling such concerns, officials said today, and they praised him for his diligence in the Bosnia shuttle diplomacy missions, for instance, at keeping the Administration informed.
Mr. Holbrooke left Washington in 1996 to move to New York -- where his wife, Kati Marton, a writer, lives -- and became a vice chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston.
Mr. Richardson will replace Federico F. Pena, one of Mr. Clinton's longest-serving Cabinet officers, who announced in April that he would step down. Mr. Pena, a former Transportation Secretary and Mayor of Denver, said this month that he wanted to return to private business but has not announced specific plans.
Mr. Richardson was first elected to the House in 1982, and was a roving diplomatic trouble-shooter for Mr. Clinton.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); ALBANIA (79%); ASIA (79%); VIET NAM (75%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; ENERGY DEPARTMENT UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; ENERGY DEPARTMENT UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); ALBANIA (79%); ASIA (79%); VIET NAM (75%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US) APPOINTMENTS (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); ELECTIONS (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HOLBROOKE, RICHARD C; RICHARDSON, BILL (AMB); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC) RICHARD HOLBROOKE (93%); BILL RICHARDSON (91%); BILL CLINTON (90%); AL GORE (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



451 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Albright, in Overture to Iran, Seeks a 'Road Map' to Amity

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright called on Iran yesterday to join the United States in drawing up "a road map leading to normal relations." She made the remark as part of the Clinton Administration's first comprehensive reply to cautious overtures from Iran's moderate President.
Nearly 20 years after the 1979 Iranian Revolution ruptured relations with Washington and installed a fundamentalist Islamic Government in Teheran, Ms. Albright said it was time to find ways to bridge the gap between the two nations and the civilizations they represent. 
 "Failure to do so would be irresponsible," she said, insisting that the United States had no quarrel with Islam.
Ms. Albright, who is regarded as one of the Administration's harshest critics of Iran, changed course last night in a speech in New York to the Asia Society, and focused on promising aspects of the new Iranian Government. In her remarks, she hailed President Mohammad Khatami, who took office last summer, as a man who "deserves respect because he is the choice of the Iranian people." Excerpts, page A16.
President Khatami was elected with the strong support of women and others who hope for a relaxation of Islamic rule, but conservatives want to reverse the trend. Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme leader, is a conservative.
While praising Iran for taking several steps to redress longstanding conflicts, Ms. Albright also demanded progress on human rights, a turning aside from terrorism, and evidence that Iran was not trying to develop weapons of mass destruction. She offered no specific incentives or promises of additional American actions, but said the United States was "ready to explore further ways to build mutual confidence and avoid misunderstanding."
Ms. Albright noted that the United States had relaxed rules on travel to and from Iran and supported cultural and academic exchanges.
"The Islamic Republic should consider parallel steps," she said. "If such a process can be initiated and sustained in a way that addresses the concerns of both sides, then we in the United States can see a very different relationship. As the wall of mistrust comes down, we can develop with the Islamic republic, when it is ready, a road map leading to normal relations."
The Secretary of State listed steps Iran has taken in recent months that have been viewed favorably in Washington, including giving public support to Yasir Arafat -- and not more radical leaders or groups -- as the voice of Palestinians.
She noted that President Khatami had denounced terrorism and condemned the killing of civilians in Israel in January. She also mentioned the record of Iran in fighting drugs and its efforts to help bring peace to Afghanistan in talks that involve both American and Iranian officials. Administration officials also say that other channels of communication have been opened with Iran, but would not give details about what they were.
"We view these developments with interest, both with regard to the possibility of Iran assuming its rightful place in the world community, and the chance for better bilateral ties," Ms. Albright said in a speech that looked across the region from Iran to Indonesia.
But Ms. Albright said that progress where it existed "must be balanced against the reality" of serious obstacles in such areas as terrorism and Iran's attempts to acquire weapons of mass destruction, including chemical and nuclear arms. Without progress on such issues, economic sanctions will remain in place, as will American opposition to the development of Iranian oil and gas pipelines, American officials said.
Ms. Albright also lamented "inflammatory and unacceptable" Iranian denunciations of Israel, which Teheran does not recognize. And she asked for more progress in ending serious abuses of human rights. She did not cite the case of Salman Rushdie, the Indian-born British writer on whom the late Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini pronounced a death sentence for blasphemy in 1989 because of his novel "The Satanic Verses," in which Muslims found derogatory references to their faith and its founder. A senior official said last night that this issue has always been part of the Administration's human rights agenda on Iran, and it was not necessary to mention it on every occasion.
Ms. Albright spoke against a backdrop of deep and unsettling changes in Asia that Administration officials said played a part in her opening to Iran. Nuclear tests in India and Pakistan have abruptly changed the atmosphere across the region, provoking concerns that Iran as well as Iraq could renew hopes of developing nuclear arms. At the moment the United States has no leverage in Iran and is losing support for its policy of continued sanctions against Iraq.
Furthermore, the Asian economic crisis is beginning to have ripple effects around the world, adding to the problems India and Pakistan will face because of the loss of World Bank loans and other financial aid as a result of the nuclear tests.
The Asian economic crisis figured in Ms. Albright's speech. On the day that President Clinton stepped in to support the faltering Japanese currency, she told the Japanese that "more needs to be done" to contain the crisis.
On Indonesia, which she described as "a country of critical strategic importance" to the United States, Ms. Albright stopped short of endorsing President B. J. Habibie's proposals for the gradual establishment of a genuinely democratic electoral system.
But in a gesture of confidence, she announced that all American diplomats evacuated from the country in May during the unrest that led to the fall of President Suharto would now return and that the United States would step up aid in food and support for democratic organizations.
Although Ms. Albright also touched on Korea, India, Pakistan and China, reiterating Administration policies, the largest part of her address was devoted to Iran and the Administration's long-delayed response to overtures made to the United States by President Khatami in an interview with CNN in January. In that interview, Mr. Khatami, who was elected a year ago despite the opposition of the country's conservative religious leadership, spoke of his respect for the American Government because it reflected "the great American people."
Ms. Albright went out of her way in her speech to demonstrate that the United States was not "anti-Islamic" and that Americans would do well to learn to understand "Eastern civilization and Islamic civilization."
"Islam is the fastest-growing religious faith in the United States," she said. "We respect deeply its moral teachings and its role as a source of inspiration and instruction for hundreds of millions of people around the world."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright made an overture to Iran last night in a speech to the Asia Society at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. (Thomas Dallal for The New York Times)(pg. A16)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); IRAN (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

COMPANY: ASIA SOCIETY THE ASIA SOCIETY (83%); THE ASIA SOCIETY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASIA SOCIETY THE ASIA SOCIETY (83%); THE ASIA SOCIETY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); IRAN (73%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ISLAM; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; TERRORISM RELIGION (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TRENDS (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (64%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KHATAMI, MOHAMMAD (PRES) ALI KHAMENEI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



452 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D;Page 1;Column 1;Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

U.S. and Japan Buy Yen To Bolster Falling Currency
The United States and Japan bought yen to stop the precipitous fall of the Japanese currency.
The action, which took currency markets by surprise, marks the first time in six years that the United States has sold dollars and purchased yen. President Clinton said he approved the move after speaking by telephone with Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto of Japan, who committed to specific economic reforms that go beyond earlier pledges. Page A1. 

As currency trading resumed in Asia, many wondered how committed Japan was to making far-reaching economic changes. But there are precedents for a turning point in the direction of the yen. News Analysis. D4.
 
How to jump-start Japan's long-sputtering economy is the main question now facing that country. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. D2.
 
AOL Plans to Remain Independent
After weeks of merger talks with AT&T, America Online said it planned to remain independent. Investors had speculated that the Internet access provider might be acquired and had pushed shares of America Online up. The negotiations also indicate that the new chairman of AT&T, C. Michael Armstrong, wants to bolster the telecommunications company's Internet access and growth prospects. D2.
 
Senate Jettisons Tobacco Bill
The Senate jettisoned broad tobacco legislation meant to discourage teen-agers from smoking. The bill, which had been debated for a month, was set aside when supporters could not get the 60 votes needed to clear two procedural hurdles. A1.
 
Economy Remains Strong, Fed Says
The nation's economy remains strong, with employment high and inflation low, despite scattered spillover from Asia's economic ills, the Federal Reserve said in its survey of regional economic conditions. D3.
 
It's Jobs at Issue in G.M. Strike
The strike at two General Motors' parts plants seems to be centering on the transfer of jobs overseas. Striking employees say they are walking the picket line to protect their jobs. But G.M. says it needs to reduce costs further, perhaps by hiring nonunion and overseas labor at lower-cost plants. News Analysis. A20.
 
No Unanimity in the Executive Suite
Chief executives and their top lieutenants hold widely divergent views on issues like succession and training for the top job, a survey by the Association of Executive Search Consultants shows. D4.
 
House Seeking a New Tax System
The House voted to require Congress to come up with a new tax system by Independence Day 2002. A32.
 
Greenspan and Rubin Differ on Bill
Chances of overhauling financial services legislation this year dimmed as the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, and Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin differed on structure and regulation at a Senate Banking Committee hearing. D3.
 
A.M.A. Backs Present Leadership
Delegates to the American Medical Association stayed with their current leadership, rejecting a presidential candidate who was critical of an aborted deal to allow Sunbeam to use the A.M.A.'s name on its products. A32.
 
30-Year Treasury Prices Decline
Treasury prices declined as the dollar plunged against the yen. The 30-year bond's yield rose to 5.73 percent, from 5.65 percent. D7.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 22, 1998, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about campaign finance legislation in the House referred incorrectly to the tenure of the staff director and general counsel of the Federal Election Commission. The two officials, who can be dismissed by a majority of the commission, serve unlimited terms, not six-year ones.

GRAPHIC: Photo.
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,829.46, up 164.17
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.73%, up 0.08
The Dollar -- 136.37 yen, dow 7.10
 
Graph: "TODAY"
 
U.S. Balance of Trade
 April figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: -13.2 billion
 
Graph tracks share price of America Online, since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (97%); ASIA (92%); 

COMPANY: AOL INC (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); SENATE BANKING COMMITTEE (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE BANKING COMMITTEE (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (97%); ASIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES CURRENCIES (94%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STRIKES (88%); LEGISLATION (87%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); TAX REFORM (73%); MERGERS (73%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); APPROVALS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); SMOKING (70%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); ALAN GREENSPAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



453 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 2; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1580 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK;
When Design Huffed And Puffed, Then Went Pop

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
"THE Inflatable Moment," on view at the Urban Center, celebrates a time when, if you didn't have an idea, you just didn't show up. You'd be too embarrassed. How different from today's climate of fear, when showing up with an idea could get you fired.
Inflatable architecture, the show's subject, was a terrible idea, as it happens. As Lloyd Kahn, the architecture editor, wrote in the Whole Earth Catalogue, "Inflatables are trippy, cheap, light, imaginative spaces, not architecture at all. They're terrible to work in. The blazing redundant surfaces disorient; one wallows in space. When the sun goes behind a cloud you cease cooking and immediately start freezing." 
 Yes, but so what? In those days, a terrible idea was better than no idea. At times, a bad idea was even better than a good idea. Architects at that moment were exploring the relationship between metaphor and material reality. There's nothing like a bad idea for showing up the difference between them.
Organized by Marc Dessauce, an architectural historian who lives in New York, this big, sloppy, high-spirited show is the Architectural League's tribute to 1968, the year the counterculture was officially born amid campus upheavals and street demonstrations. Along with anniversary tributes like this show and a weekend conference last month at the Columbia University Buell Center for the Study of American Architecture, young designers today are also offering a small reprise of the inflatable moment. Inflate, a British design group, has displayed its blow-up bowls and vases at downtown design stores. The dreadful 1967 Inflatable chair can be purchased from a Web site. Even Ikea plans to introduce an Air Line of inflatable footstools and sofas this October.
No doubt it's a perennial dream: to lose gravity, float away on a cloud, rise above the world and the weight of grown-up responsibilities. Nitrous oxide is the best way to inhabit that dream, though the dentist's drill one must put up with to experience such bliss can be very off-putting. And the impulse to float away only partly explains the radical work of the late 1960's.
In those years, society at large was exploring the meshing of metaphor and materiality. In Paris, real cars were torched, real trees cut down, real bodies carted off to the pokey. Garbage strewn around the student-occupied Odeon theater gave off a genuine stench. But as many who were students at the time recall, the May events served primarily a metaphoric value. The counterculture was a generalized protest against a diffuse idea of cultural authority. Since architecture is traditionally an art of the Establishment, it was not surprising that some of the counterculture's earliest rumblings emanated from within architecture schools.
The main part of the show focuses on the work of Utopie, a group of French artists and writers who banded together in 1967 and devoted much of their energy to designing inflatable structures and promoting them in publications. The group included the architects Jean Aubert, Jean-Paul Jungmann and Antoine Stinco and the writers Jean Baudrillard, Isabelle Auricoste and Hubert Tonka. And the heart of the show consists of their student work, including diploma projects for the Ecole des Beaux-Arts.
These presentation drawings depict a variety of pneumatic building types, including housing, theaters, museums and other public buildings. Some of these are air-supported structures in which a pressurized interior supports a thin membrane. In others, the enclosure is held aloft by air-filled structural ribs. Many of them are transportable, and thus in theory do not require ownership of land. Air, so they thought, was free.
Mr. Dessauce writes that for members of Utopie, the inflatable structure occupied a middle ground between conventional practice and dropping out. The appeal of inflatables was precisely that they were not architecture at all and therefore were untainted by establishment associations. Lacking weight, they also lacked gravitas. Like tents, they were events rather than buildings -- happenings, in the parlance of the time -- and thus made no claim on endurance, much less on the eternity to which architecture often aspires.
Utopie's work, while squishy, is not as formless as you might expect. Jean-Paul Jungmann's Dyodon pneumatic house, for example, recalls the Buck Rogers designs of the elderly Frank Lloyd Wright, like his unbuilt plan from the late 1950's for a convention center on Ellis Island. (Wright's one venture into inflatables, a windowless rubber igloo designed in 1957, is also included here.) Most of the projects, though not rigidly structured, are formally more complex than the geodesic domes of Buckminster Fuller.
Fuller, who would routinely ask architects, What does your building weigh?, was clearly the inspiration for Aubert's 1966 Traveling Theater project, a soft dome of green fabric interlaced with air-filled structural tubes. But the framework also has the character of Gothic ribs. In fact, several projects in the show evoke the fantastic Modernismo Gothicism of Gaudi, and would not look out of place in the context of present-day Barcelona, with its brilliant program of innovative public spaces.
LOOKING back at this material now, one thinks, why were these people so dissatisfied? After all, they were living in Paris! City of Light! A city where even student cafe food is heaven! What place in this world or the next could be more Utopian than the Rive Gauche?
But the Utopie group was living in a time as well as a place. As architecture students in the 60's, they were cruelly conscious of the collapse of the utopia that had preceded them -- the modern movement's dream of the rational, radiant city of towers in a park. Students in the 1960's were living in the modern movement's future time frame, but things within that frame had not turned out as planned. All that propaganda, all that earnestness, and what was there to show for it? The Tour Montparnasse, a big black shadow on the Paris skyline. If students in the 1960's displayed an unwillingness to grow up, who could blame them? Who wanted to grow up and become a modern architect? Who wanted to be delusional?
This lends considerable poignancy to the second part of the show, a historical overview in which it can be seen that Utopie's utopia fared even worse than the modern kind. Based on an exhibition organized by Utopie in March 1968 at the Museum of Modern Art in Paris, this show pulls together a hodgepodge of pneumatic delights, including Quasar Khanh's inflatable lamps and Andy Warhol's silver Mylar pillows. As a group, these projects have all the charm of a deflated weather balloon.
But the truth is, this stuff actually looked tatty even when new. Khanh's lamp had a crooked hang. The Blow chair by Scolari, De Pas, D'Urbino, Lomazzi squeaked when you sat on it, a sound as endearing as nails on a blackboard. The United States Pavilion at the 1970 Osaka World's Fair looked terrific for five minutes, before leakage problems caused the dome to sag. In fashion photographs and shop windows, blow-up furnishings looked cool. At home, they were last night's party favors.
Perhaps inflatable buildings were too much like architecture after all. By 1970, the Utopie group had disbanded. Before long, the inflatable moment was ripe for satire. In 1972, the Architectural League presented a project by Marc Balet, a young Prix de Rome winner, at the Whitney Museum of American Art. Visitors were invited to toss effervescent tablets into buckets of water and envision the bubbles as architectural configurations. A pair of bubbles might be a duplex. Rotated 90 degrees, it became a ranch house.
Mr. Balet later went on toward other forms of inflation, first as art director of Warhol's Interview magazine, then as director of the advertising agency Balet & Albert. But as this show clearly documents, media hype was an integral part of 1968, and perhaps the most enduring aspect of the counterculture as a whole. Or to put a kinder spin on it, work like Utopie's aimed more to influence consciousness than to rebuild the world.
In hindsight, it is clear that the conceptual groundwork for "the inflatable moment" had actually been laid by the modern movement. Marcel Breuer had predicted that "in the end, we will all sit on a resilient column of air."
Mies van der Rohe's esthetic "of almost nothing" emphasized void spaces over solid walls. Utopie's reliance on advanced technology extended Le Corbusier's concept of the house as a machine for living in. That reliance was the major reason for Utopie's breakup.
How could utopia be built on the patents of the military-industrial complex? Even assuming that land could be borrowed and air pumped in free, what idealistic architect wanted to stake a vision to the Joint Chiefs of Staff?
And now we have airbags. Also, those little pillows you can buy at the airport to tuck behind your lower back. The trick is to fill them only half way, just until they gain a puddly consistency. The best time I had in the last 10 years was spent floating on a Batman raft in the blue water off Capri. And what I think about all the time is shoving off from the shore, drifting down the river on something light and lazy, while trees pass overhead and all else waits.
 
"The Inflatable Moment" runs through Aug. 29 at the Urban Center of the Architectural League of New York, 457 Madison Avenue (51st Street).

CORRECTION-DATE: July 13, 1998, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An article and a picture caption on June 18 about "The Inflatable Moment," a show on inflatable architecture at the Urban Center of the Architectural League of New York, misidentified the building at the 1970 Osaka World's Fair with leak problems that caused its dome to sag. It was the Pepsi-Cola Pavilion, not the United States Pavilion.

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE INFLATABLE BUBBLE -- Right, the 1954 Inflatalamp; below, Blow chair, 1967, on display at the Urban Center. Above, an inflatable postcard at Totem, a TriBeCa store; BUILDINGS OR HOT AIR? -- Top right, 1967 experimental inflatable home, Jean-Paul Jungmann; above and backdrop, Instant City by Marc Balet, 1972, poked fun at the era's inflatable rage. His effervescent cities burst. (Illustrations by Marc Balet (above and far left); Jean-Paul Jungmann, 1967 (top right)(pg. F1); HIGH SPIRITS -- U.S. Pavilion at 1970 Osaka World's Fair, above, looked terrific for five minutes before leakage problems developed. Inset top, at Urban Center, blow-up furnishings that looked cool; right, UFO light at Totem Design.(Illustrations by Marc Balet; Chang W. Lee/The New York Times, top inset)(pg. F13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (75%); 

COMPANY: URBAN CENTER (NYC) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: URBAN CENTER (NYC) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (75%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (75%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; REVIEWS ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); HISTORY (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998



454 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 41; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 4215 words

HEADLINE: Centennial Weekend;
Manhattan

 BODY:

Events
"CENTENNIAL SWIM FOR THE PARK," Manhattan Island Foundation. A 7.8-mile Hudson River race starting at the Little Red Lighthouse at 181st Street under the George Washington Bridge, to Hudson River Park at Pier 62 at 22d Street. Tomorrow: check-in, 9:30 A.M.; swim, 10:30 A.M. Free. Information: (212) 873-8311. 
 CENTRAL PARK CONSERVANCY. Tomorrow's events: "A Road Once Traveled: The Hidden History of the Northern End," a walking tour beginning at the Dana Discovery Center at 1 P.M.; "100 Years in Central Park," a walking tour beginning at the Dairy at 1 P.M.; "Navigating the Park's History," a workshop and tour at Belvedere Castle at 1 P.M.; "The Promise of the Park," a musical at the Dairy at 1 P.M. and 3 P.M. On Sunday: "Centennial Picnic," with historic games from 1 to 2 P.M. and 4 to 5 P.M., and a presentation of the Harlem Meer Performance Festival, with "McCollough's Sons of Thunder," from 2 to 4 P.M. Information: (212) 860-1370.
CHELSEA PIERS, the Roller Rinks, 23d Street and the Hudson River, Chelsea. The "Centennial Summer Picnic" includes games that were popular 100 years ago, the First Annual Barbershop Quartet Contest, Straka and Sheridan's Old Time Medicine Show and the NYC 100 Cake-Off, with prizes awarded for the best birthday cake prepared by neighborhoods around the city. Sunday, noon to 4 P.M. Information: (212) 336-6881.
CIRCLE LINE, Pier 16, South Street Seaport. The Seaport Liberty Cruise. Sunday at noon. Admission: $12; the first 100 passengers free. Information: (212) 563-3200.
ELDRIDGE STREET PROJECT, 12 Eldridge Street, Lower East Side. "Centennial Tours," a series of free tours on religious life on the Lower East Side at the turn of the century. Sunday, 11 A.M. to 3 P.M., starting every hour on the hour. The main sanctuary of the synagogue will also be on view. Information: (212) 219-0903.
HERITAGE OF PRIDE, Bryant Park, Avenue of Americas at 42d Street. The Gay and Lesbian Pride Rally kicks off Pride Week with music, talk and comedy from more than 25 performers and speakers including Cyndi Lauper, Officer Tony Crespo and members of the cast of "Rent." Sunday from 2 to 6 P.M. Free. Information: (212) 807-7433
HUDSON RIVER PARK CONSERVANCY, Pier 54 at 14th Street. A festival featuring kite-making and flying, games and storytelling for children, chamber music, and a free Tai Chi class. Sunday from 11 A.M. to 5 P.M. Free. Information: (212) 353-0366.
LOWER EAST SIDE BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT, Orchard Street between Delancey and Broome Streets. Street performances, a walking tour and the Centennial Weekend Sale, all celebrating the opening of this Centennial Block. Sunday at 11 A.M. Free. Information: (212) 226-9010.
NEW YORK CITY FIRE MUSEUM, 278 Spring Street, between Hudson and Varick Streets, South Village. A festival involving demonstrations by firefighters from all five boroughs and featuring vintage vehicles and costumes, relay races and a bagpipe band. Tomorrow, 11 A.M. to 4 P.M. Free. Information: (212) 691-1303.
NEW YORK CITYHAWKS, Madison Square Garden, 2 Penn Plaza. The first 100 people at the box office will receive free tickets to the CityHawks' arena football game against the Grand Rapids Rampage when they mention the Centennial. Tonight at 7:30. Tickets: $10 to $40. Information: (212) 465-5890.
NEW YORK GENEALOGICAL AND BIOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY, 122-126 East 58th Street. An open house featuring tours of the Society's home, portrait gallery and library, with a display of artifacts and texts highlighting the period of the city's consolidation. Tomorrow, 11 A.M. to 5 P.M. Free. Information: (212) 755-8532.
NEW YORK HARBOR FESTIVAL, Pier 34 to Pier 40 on West Street, between Hudson and Canal Streets, West Village. All boats are welcome to join the parade in the Hudson River. Representatives of all major religions will bless the vessels for a "safe and prosperous season." Piers 34 and 40 will be open to the public to view the parade. Sponsored by the Hudson River Park Conservancy. Tomorrow from 3 to 4 P.M. Free. Information: (212) 533-7275.
NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 2 West 77th Street. Lecture series tomorrow entitled "New York History Marathon": "Murray Hill," with Charles Monaghan at noon; "Wall Street," with Charles Geisst at 1 P.M.; "Roosevelt Island," with Stuart Miller at 2 P.M.; "Central Park," with Francis R. Kowsky at 3 P.M.; "Times Square," with Ed Hayman at 4 P.M. Admission: $5; $3 for students and the elderly. Information and reservations: (212) 873-3400.
NEW YORK ROAD RUNNERS CLUB, Central Park, East Drive at 97th Street. In celebration of Centennial Weekend, participants in the annual Father's Day Four-Mile Run and Children's Race will sing "Happy Birthday" at the start and share birthday cake at the end. Sunday: Father's Day Race, 9 A.M.; Children's Race, 10 A.M. Fee: Father's Day Race, $20; Children's Race, $14. Information: (212) 860-4455.
PROFESSIONAL DIVING ARCHEOLOGY, Pier 17, South Street Seaport. Divers under South Street Seaport will use underwater cameras to transmit live images back to the pier, where there will also be a display of historical diving equipment. Tomorrow, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. Free. Information: (718) 454-1617.
SOUTH STREET SEAPORT. Festivities begin tomorrow at 1 P.M., with street performers. At 7:30 P.M. Rachid performs music from his debut album, "Prototype," leading up to the fireworks at 9:30 P.M. Information: (212) 877-8984.
UNION SQUARE PARK. Tomorrow the Union Square Big Band will perform at 11:30 A.M., followed at 12:30 by the Mannes College Jazz and Contemporary Music Program at New School University. At 3 P.M., tours of the neighborhood will leave from the Lincoln Statue. Sponsored by the 14th Street-Union Square Local Development Corporation and Business Improvement District. Free. Information: (212) 460-1204.
URBAN PARK RANGERS, Belvedere Castle, Central Park. Celebrate the summer solstice as the rangers, with Parks Department Commissioner Henry Stern, release 100 butterflies. Followed by a tour of the Ramble, a heavily forested section of the park. Sunday at 1 P.M. Free. Information: (212) 360-2776.
 
Museums and Galleries

 
 AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY, Central Park West and 79th Street. To celebrate Centennial Weekend, admission to the museum, including its new Hall of Biodiversity, will be free from 1 to 5 P.M. on Sunday. Information: (212) 769-5100.
CHILDREN'S MUSEUM OF MANHATTAN, 212 West 83d Street. "Snapshots of New York City," with storytelling, sing-alongs and other events, provides a window into children's lives in New York over the last 100 years. Today, tomorrow and Sunday, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. Admission: $5; $2.50 for the elderly; free for children under 1 and for members; free admission on Sunday from 10 A.M. to noon. Information: (212) 721-1223.
DYCKMAN HOUSE MUSEUM, 4881 Broadway, at 204th Street, Inwood. To celebrate Centennial Weekend, admission will be free on Sunday, 11 A.M. to 4 P.M. Information: (212) 304-9422.
FRAUNCES TAVERN MUSEUM, 54 Pearl Street. An exhibit, "When New York Was British," looks at New York from the surrender of Peter Stuyvesant's New Amsterdam to the British in 1664, to American independence from Britain in 1783. Tomorrow and Sunday from noon to 4 P.M. Free. A walking tour in con visits the site of the Sugar House Prison and Bowling Green. Tomorrow at 2 P.M. Fee: $12. Information: (212) 425-1778.
HARVESTWORKS DIGITAL MEDIA ARTS CENTER, 596 Broadway, between Prince and Houston Streets, Suite 602, SoHo. An exhibition of digital media art works celebrating a century of New York City history. Sunday, noon to 5 P.M. Free. Information: (212) 431-1130.
HEBREW UNION COLLEGE-JEWISH INSTITUTE OF RELIGION, 1 West Fourth Street, Greenwich Village. The exhibition "Ben-Zion: In Search of Oneself," and 100 works by artists who lived and worked in New York City. Today, 9 A.M. to 3 P.M. Free. Information: (212) 824-2209.
INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY MIDTOWN, 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43d Street. On Sunday, free admission from 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. Also on Sunday, a gallery talk at 2 P.M. in conjunction with the exhibition "Matthew Brady's New York," which includes images of Abraham Lincoln, Clara Barton and P. T. Barnum. Information: (212) 860-1777.
 INTREPID SEA-AIR-SPACE MUSEUM, Pier 86, at West 46th Street and 12th Avenue. Adults and children pair up and compete in the "Flight Deck Olympics." Sunday from 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. At 1:30 P.M., the cast from "The Sound of Music" performs and the Intrepid Air Wing Skytypers write tributes in the sky to New York's Centennial. Admission: $10; the elderly, veterans, reservists and ages 12 to 17, $7.50; ages 6 to 11, $5; 5 and under, $1; under 2, free; wheelchair patrons, half price. The first 100 visitors will be admitted free. Information: (212) 245-0072.
PIERPONT MORGAN LIBRARY, 29 East 36th Street. Special walk-in tours of the East and West Rooms, on a space-available basis. Exhibits on view will be "a. k. a. Lewis Carroll," "Settling New Scores: Music Manuscripts from the Paul Sacher Foundation," "A Seal Upon Thine Heart: Glyptic Art From the Ancient Near East, ca. 2100-500 B.C." and "Selections from the Carter Burden Collection of American Literature." Sunday, every hour on the hour from noon to 5 P.M. Free. Information: (212) 685-0610.
METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART, Fifth Avenue at 82d Street. To celebrate Centennial Weekend, admission to the museum, including the recently opened exhibition "Sir Edward Burne-Jones," will be free from 1 to 5 P.M. on Sunday. Information: (212) 879-5500.
MORRIS-JUMEL MANSION, Roger Morris Park, 65 Jumel Terrace, at 160th Street, Washington Heights. To celebrate Centennial Weekend, admission is free on Sunday, 10 A.M. to 4 P.M. Information: (212) 923-8008.
MUSEUM OF THE CHINESE IN THE AMERICAS, 70 Mulberry Street, Chinatown. On Sunday, from noon to 5 P.M., the Museum will distribute free guidebooks and maps of Chinatown. Information: (212) 619-4785.
MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103d Street. Allon Schoner, the author of "New York: An Illustrated History of the People," will give a lecture and slide presentation on the roots of diversity in New York. Sunday at 2 P.M. Free. Information: (212) 534-1672.
THE MUSEUM OF FINANCIAL HISTORY, 26 Broadway, at Bowling Green Park. "Rags to Riches: The Financing of America," an exhibition tracing the story of the establishment of America's financial systems in the chaotic years following the Revolution. Includes colonial currency, state banknotes and a bond signed by George Washington. Tomorrow and Sunday from 10 A.M. to 3:30 P.M. Free. Information: (212) 908-4519.
SOHO TRIAD FINE ARTS, 107 Grand Street. "Celebrating New York's Centennial in Photographs," an exhibit illustrating the evolving character of New York City and its boroughs from the 1890's to the present. Today, tomorrow and Sunday from 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. Gallery talk tomorrow at 3 P.M. Free. Information: (212) 965-9500.
SOUTH STREET SEAPORT MUSEUM, 12 Fulton Street and various sites around the Seaport. Walking tours and a gallery talk, tomorrow and Sunday: "Destination New York Port: Ambrose Lightship Tour," 11 A.M.; "South Street's Waterfront World," noon; "Ship Restoration Tour," 1 P.M.; "Hard Tack and Hard Times," 2 P.M.; "Weathered Witness: The Seaport Historical District," 3 P.M.; "Gallery Talk: Beken of Cowes, Marine Photographers," 4 P.M. Free. Information: (212) 748-8600.
UKRAINIAN MUSEUM, 203 Second Avenue, near 12th Street, East Village. To celebrate Centennial Weekend, admission is free today through Sunday, 1 to 5 P.M. and a free sampling of Ukrainian baked goods will be offered on Sunday from 2 to 4 P.M. Information: (212) 228-0110.
 
Music
 BRYANT PARK RESTORATION CORP., Bryant Park. The New York Times Company Foundation's Young Performers series presents the Only Time Will Tell Big Band, with Jeffery Silberschlag conducting. Today at 12:30 P.M. Free. Information: (212) 818-1777.
CATHEDRAL OF ST. JOHN THE DIVINE, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street. "The Fifth Annual Celtic Summer Solstice," a concert with Paul Winter on soprano saxophone, Paul Halley on piano and great organ, and vocalist Karen Casey. Tonight at 7:30; tomorrow, 4:30 A.M. and 7:30 P.M. Tickets: Sunset concerts, $25 to $40; Sunrise concert, $15. Information: (212) 316-7540.
CENTRAL PARK CONSERVANCY, Conservatory Garden, Vanderbilt Gate, Fifth Avenue at 105th Street. A tour of the Conservatory Garden, followed by a concert by the Mannes College of Music Brass Quintet in the South Garden. Sunday: tour, 2 P.M.; concert, 3:30. Free. Information: (212) 310-6600.
FETE DE LA MUSIQUE, World Trade Center Plaza. The traditional French celebration of the summer solstice, with free music performances all day Sunday. Some of the scheduled events are: Solstice Celebration with Silver Cloud leading a traditional American Indian morning invocation with drums and chanting, 9 A.M.; the Avalon String Band, 10 A.M.; Play It By Ear, an improvisational opera troupe, 12:30 P.M.; Tabou Combo, a Haitian band, 2 P.M.; the Hunter Jazz Ensemble, 3:15 P.M.; Autour de Lucie, 4:15 P.M.; Bernard Massuir, Belgium's answer to Bobby McFerrin, 5:30 P.M.; Philip Glass and Foday Musa Suso performing music from "The Screens," 6:30 P.M.; and closing with Silver Cloud leading a Sundown celebration with a traditional American Indian evening invocation. Throughout the day there will be performances by buskers and street performers from around the world. Information: (212) 432-0900.
GOLDMAN MEMORIAL BAND, Damrosch Park, Lincoln Center. David Eaton conducts the 80-year-old band in a special concert celebrating New York music past and present. Sunday at 7 P.M. Free. Information: (212) 924-5171.
HISTORIC BATTERY PARK, Pearl and State Streets. A performance by the folk singer Ani DiFranco. Tomorrow at 7 P.M. Tickets: $26 in advance; $33 day of show. Available through Ticketmaster: (212) 307-7171; Tickets can also be bought at Soundtrack Records at 119 Seventh Avenue, Park Slope, or 132 Montague Street, Brooklyn Heights.
 
Theater, Dance and Film
 AMERICAN PLACE THEATER,111 West 46th Street. The theater will deduct $10 from the admission price to the play "Sakina's Restaurant" for anyone with any advertisement mentioning Centennial Weekend. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8; Sunday at 7 P.M. Tickets: $30; with discount, $20. Information: (212) 840-296 ext. 10.
KING'S COUNTY SHAKESPEARE COMPANY, 111 Studios, 111 West 19th Street, Studio 2A. Preview performances of the Restoration comedy "The Beaux' Strategem," by George Farquhar, directed by Mary Ethel Schmidt. Today and tomorrow at 8 P.M.; Sunday at 2 P.M. Donations accepted. Information: (718) 391-8773.
LIGHTNING STRIKES THEATER COMPANY, Miranda Theater, 259 West 30th Street. "Our Country's Good," by Timberlake Wertenbaker. Performances tonight and tomorrow at 8 P.M. and Sunday at 2 P.M. Sunday's performance includes an "Our City's Good" reception with cake and singing. Tickets: $11. Information: (212) 713-5334.
MEDICINE SHOW THEATER ENSEMBLE, 552 West 53d Street. The first 20 audience members at Sunday's performance of "Passing for Normal: The 50's Follies" will be admitted free. After each performance this weekend, the cast will sing Happy Birthday to the city. Tomorrow at 8 P.M.; Sunday at 7 P.M. Tickets: $15. Information: (212) 262-4216.
NEW FEDERAL THEATER, Henry Street Settlement Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand Street, Lower East Side. The first 10 people who reserve tickets to each performance of "Valentine's Day" will receive them free. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30, Sunday at 3 P.M. Tickets: $12. Information: (212) 353-1176.
TEACHERS AND WRITERS COLLABORATIVE, 5 Union Square West, between 14th and 15th Streets. A talk and screening of "New York," with the film documentarian Ric Burns and Margo Jefferson, an arts critic for The New York Times. Preceded by a reception. Tonight at 6. Free, but reservations are required. Information: (212) 691-6590.
 
Restaurants
 BRIDGE CAFE, 279 Water Street, at the Brooklyn Bridge. A special prix-fixe centennial meal, $18.98. Tomorrow from 5 P.M. to midnight; Sunday from noon to 10 P.M. Information: (212) 227-3344.
GIOVANNI'S ATRIUM, 100 Washington Street, West Village. A special prix-fixe centennial meal, $19.98. Today, 11 A.M. to 3 P.M. Information: (212) 344-3777.
ONE IF BY LAND, TWO IF BY SEA, 17 Barrow Street, Greenwich Village. Free dessert with a birthday candle. Today through Sunday, 5:30 to 11:30 P.M. Information: (212) 255-8649.
PATSY'S ITALIAN RESTAURANT, 236 West 56th Street. A special prix-fixe centennial meal, $18.98. Today through Sunday, noon to 3 P.M. Information: (212) 247-3491
RATNER'S RESTAURANT, 138 Delancey Street, Lower East Side. A special prix-fixe centennial meal, $18.98. Sunday from 6 A.M. to 11:30 P.M. Information: (212) 677-5588.
 
Walking Tours
 "ANNUAL FATHER'S DAY MULTI-ETHNIC EATING TOUR," lower Manhattan. A tour of neighborhoods filled with bialys, dim sum and mozzarella. Meets Sunday at 1 P.M. at the southeast corner of Essex and Delancey Streets. Sponsored by Big Onion Walking Tours. Fee, which includes snacks: $13; $11 for students and the elderly. Information: (212) 439-1090.
"CENTENNIAL CITIES," a tour of the places of political power and economic resurgence in Manhattan and Brooklyn on the eve of the creation of modern New York City, including stops at City Hall, the Brooklyn mansion of Seth Low and sites associated with Tammany Hall. Meets tomorrow at 1 P.M. at the Nathan Hale Statue, between Broadway and Murray Street. Co-sponsored by the Museum of the City of New York and Big Onion Walking Tours. Fee: $15; $13 for museum members, students and the elderly. Information: (212) 439-1090.
"CHELSEA'S CHARMS." Discover secret gardens, an abandoned railroad and other surprises in the neighborhood that was once Clement Clarke Moore's homestead. Sunday at 1 P.M. Sponsored by the 92d Street Y. Fee: $18. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 996-1100.
"A DOWNTOWN ODYSSEY." A guided tour of downtown Manhattan. Leaves tomorrow at 11 A.M. from the information kiosk in front of Trinity Church, Broadway and Wall Street. Sponsored by Heritage Trails. Fee: $11; $9 for students and the elderly; $7 for children. Information: (212) 269-1500 x207.
"THE EXPERIMENTAL GLASS WORKSHOP." A tour of a building with more that 70,000 square feet of work space, a demonstration area and a gallery. Sunday at 12:30 P.M. Sponsored by the 92d Street Y. Fee: $25. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 996-1100.
"FATHER'S DAY WITH THE FATHER OF OUR COUNTRY" A tour of historical sites of the Revolution in downtown Manhattan led by an actor portraying George Washington. Leaves Sunday at 11 A.M. from the information kiosk in front of Trinity Church, Broadway and Wall Street. Sponsored by Heritage Trails. Fee: $11; $9 for students and the elderly; $7 for children; free for all Dads. Information: (212) 269-1500 x207.
"THE GENIUS AND ELEGANCE OF GRAMERCY PARK." A tour of the exclusive Manhattan neighborhood that was once a marshland. Meets tomorow at 1 P.M. at the Gramercy Park Hotel, Lexington Avenue and 21st Street. Sponsored by Joyce Gold History Tours of New York. Fee: $12. Information: (212) 242-5762.
"GRAMERCY PARK," a look at the architectural and literary heritage of this fashionable neighborhood where the writer O. Henry and the architect Stanford White lived. Meets today at 12:30 P.M. at the northwest corner of 14th Street and Third Avenue. Sponsored by the Municipal Art Society. Fee: $10; $8 for students, the elderly and members. Information: (212) 935-3960.
"GRAMERCY PARK: SOME OF ITS HIDDEN GLORIES." A tour of the interiors and exteriors of the neighborhood's noted structures, including the Brotherhood Synagogue, the National Arts Club, and the Player's Club. Concludes with a reception at the National Arts Club. Sunday at 2 P.M. Sponsored by the Gramercy Neighborhood Associates Preservation Committee. Fee: $20; limited spaces. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 673-5313.
"GREENWICH VILLAGE AT TWILIGHT." A tour of this legendary home to artists, writers and radicals, with special emphasis on history and architecture. Meets tomorrow at 4 P.M. at the Washington Arch. Sponsored by Big Onion Walking Tours. Fee: $10; $8 for students and the elderly. Information: (212) 439-1090.
"HISTORIC YORK AVENUE." A tour of the historic area, including stops at the City & Suburban Homes complex, Shively Sanitary Tenements, Webster Library and John Jay Park. Led by Marie Beirne, a member of the Coalition to Save City and Suburban Housing. Meets Sunday at noon and 3 P.M. at the City & Suburban Homes York Avenue Estate Archive Room, 515 East 78th Street, in the basement Information: (212) 388-0883.
"INTERPRETING YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD: TRIBECA." An architectural tour led by Catherine Teegarden. Meets tomorrow at 10 A.M. at the entrance to P.S. 234 at the corner of Greenwich and Chambers Streets. Sponsored by the AIA New York Chapter. Free. Reservations requested: (212) 683-0023, ext. 21.
"JIMMY WALKER'S NEW YORK," covers Greenwich Village sites associated with the former Mayor's New York of the 1920's. Meets tomorrow at 1:30 P.M. in front of the Washington Square Hotel, 103 Waverly Place. Sponsored by C3 Restaurant. Fee: $20, which includes tea at C3 after the tour. Information: (212) 254-1200.
"LOW LIFE GREENWICH VILLAGE." Visit the neighborhood's sites of murder and mayhem with an historian, Steven H. Jaffe. Tomorrow at 3 P.M. Sponsored by the Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation. Fee: $15. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 924-3895.
"MILLIONAIRE'S MILE: FIFTH AVENUE MANSIONS." A tour and discussion of the mansions, their architects and the histories and social lives of the families that lived in them. Sunday at 1 P.M. Sponsored by the 92d Street Y. Fee: $20. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 996-1100.
"PRE-FIREWORKS NEW YORK CITY CENTENNIAL HISTORY TOUR." A tour of sites associated with the consolidation of the city, beginning near City Hall in Manhattan and ending at the Brooklyn Promenade. Tomorrow at 6 P.M. Sponsored by NYC Discovery Tours. Fee, $12. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 465-3331.
"STANFORD WHITE'S GREENWICH VILLAGE." A tour highlighting the Greenwich Village landmarks associated with the architect, led by David Garrard Lowe, an author and historian. Meets tomorrow at noon at the Church of the Ascension, Fifth Avenue and 10th Street. Sponsored by the Beaux Arts Alliance. Fee: $25. Reservations required: (212) 639-9120.
"THE STREETS WHERE WE LIVED." Stroll the Lower East Side and learn how different immigrant groups shaped and continue to shape this community of first settlers. Meets Sunday at 1:30 and 2:30 P.M. at 90 Orchard Street, at Broome Street. Sponsored by the Lower East Side Tenement Museum. Free, but on a first come, first served basis. Information: (212) 431-0233.
"STRIVER'S ROW." Manhattan Borough President Virginia Fields leads a tour highlighting this unique block of homes in Harlem. Tomorrow at 10:30 A.M. Sponsored by the New York Landmarks Conservancy and Heritage Trails. Free. Reservaions and meeting place: (212) 678-4954.
"STUYVESANT SQUARE HISTORIC DISTRICT." A tour of the Stuyvesant Square environs, interior and exterior, including visits to the Friends Meeting House, St. George's Church and the lobby of the former Lying-In Hospital. Led by Jack Taylor, a member of the Stuyvesant Park Neighborhood Association. Meets tomorrow at 1 P.M. at the statue of Peter Stuyvesant in the western section of the park, reachable from the entrance at Second Avenue and 16th Street. Sponsored by the Stuyvesant Park Neighborhood Association. Fee: $10. Information and reservations: (212) 475-2850.
"TERMINAL CITY: GRAND CENTRAL TERMINAL." A tour and discussion of the design of the station and its impact on midtown architecture and real estate, led by an architectural historian, Matthew Postal. Meets Sunday at 1 P.M. at the information booth in the Main Concourse of Grand Central Terminal. Sponsored by the Municipal Art Society. Fee: $15; $12 for Society members. Information: (212) 935-3960.
"A WALK THROUGH NOHO." A tour of almost two centuries of the architecture and history of this neighborhood. Meets Sunday at 2 P.M. at the Merchant's House, 29 East Fourth Street. Sponsored by the Merchant's House Museum. Fee: $15; members, $12. Reservations: (212) 777-1089.
"WORLD OF FINANCE," lower Manhattan. A tour of the financial center, inside and out, with stops at the New York Stock Exchange and the New York Mercantile Exchange. Meets today at 9:30 A.M. at the information kiosk in front of Trinity Church, Broadway and Wall Street. Sponsored by Heritage Trails. Fee: $15; $10 for students and the elderly. Information: (212) 269-1500 x207.
"WORLD OF OUR FATHERS: THE OLD JEWISH LOWER EAST SIDE." A tour of the history, food and landmarks of New York's best-known ethnic neighborhood. Meets Sunday at 1 P.M. at Straus Square at East Broadway, Essex and Canal Streets. Sponsored by Joyce Gold History Tours of New York. Fee: $12. Information: (212) 242-5762.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Richard Merkin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BRYANT PARK GRILL (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); MUSIC (88%); HARBORS & PORTS (77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (66%); AWARDS & PRIZES (66%); RELIGION (61%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); MARTIAL ARTS (60%); 

PERSON: PARK CONSERVANCY (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1998



455 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 25; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 2242 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE

 BODY:

Here is a selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy movies and film series playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film or series. Ratings and running times are in parentheses. An index of reviews of films opening today appears on page 13.
 
Now Playing
 
"COUSIN BETTE," starring Jessica Lange, Elisabeth Shue and Bob Hoskins. Directed by Des McAnuff (R, 108 minutes). Balzac's great novel of 1840's Paris, like Tom Wolfe's "Bonfire of the Vanities," of which it is an obvious forerunner, is far too big and sprawling to be compressed into a film of average length. The gifted theater director Mr. McAnuff, making his feature-film debut, has staged the novel's greedy social climbing and revenge as a cartoonish "Masterpiece Theater" spoof in which an avaricious courtesan (Ms. Shue) and an ambitious young sculptor (Aden Young), who wreak sexual havoc, are charmless buffoons. Ms. Lange is grimly opaque as a vengeful, scheming cousin who manipulates these narcissists into destroying the aristocratic relatives who have humiliated her (Stephen Holden). 

 
"DEEP IMPACT," starring Robert Duvall, Tea Leoni, Elijah Wood, Vanessa Redgrave, Maximilian Schell and Morgan Freeman. Directed by Mimi Leder (PG-13, 120 minutes). Apparently there is no better aid to family therapy than a murderously large meteor hurtling toward Earth. So this is a more sensitive sci-fi disaster film than most, with lovers bonding and old wounds healing as the summer's first colossal cinematic catastrophe looms. This thriller is vigorously made, but it provides less grisly mayhem than might be expected. As the planet faces extinction, attention is paid to rescuing art, antiques, elephants and flamingos. Special-effects wizardry provides a suitably devastating tidal wave (Janet Maslin).
 
"FEAR AND LOATHING IN LAS VEGAS," starring Johnny Depp and Benicio Del Toro. Directed by Terry Gilliam (R, 120 minutes). Mr. Gilliam, the visually ingenious cinematic maestro behind "Brazil" and "12 Monkeys," has filmed Hunter S. Thompson's 1971 classic of gonzo journalism with an astonishing fidelity to the book's psychedelic phantasmagoria. But if this is as close to recreating the sensory world of an acid trip that a mainstream film has ever come, the movie packs the book's vignettes into an overstuffed hodgepodge. Where the book conveyed a spirit of open-ended adventure in which each new caper could be spun out into its own little movie, the film rarely gives the book's appallingly funny anecdotes room to breathe. Mr. Depp, who has been made partially bald for the role of Raoul Duke, turns in a clever performance. And Mr. Del Toro's portrayal of Raoul's gun-waving sidekick and "attorney," Dr. Gonzo, is a tour de force of unfettered goonishness (Holden).
 
"GODZILLA," starring Matthew Broderick and Hank Azaria. Directed by Roland Emmerich (PG-13, 139 minutes). The ads for "Godzilla" proclaim that "size does matter." But it turns out that bigger doesn't necessarily mean better. The animatronic lizard that rises from the ocean and stomps on a number of New York City landmarks has thundering metallic footsteps but still has the impact of a weightless cartoon monster. The movie doesn't get scary until halfway through, when the beast's eggs hatch (in what's left of Madison Square Garden) and an army of more lifelike baby Godzillas threatens to devour the search party. The storytelling and acting in this $120 million wad of gummed-up popcorn reaches new depths of crudeness and ineptitude for a so-called Event Movie (Holden).
 
"HIGH ART," starring Ally Sheedy and Radha Mitchell. Directed by Lisa Cholodenko (R, 96 minutes). Ms. Sheedy gives a fierce, tricky performance in the role of a once-celebrated photograher, spooked by fame, who long ago retreated from the art world to live a reclusive, druggy life among lesbian friends. This steamily intense story follows her spider-fly relationship with Ms. Mitchell's bright-eyed, ambitious ingenue, who works for a desperately stylish photography magazine. Ms. Cholodenko's seductive, powerfully atmospheric first feature explores their relationship with intelligence and avidity. But it sacrifices any hope of raw edges and real emotion to its own chic sensibility, which proves so studiously alluring that it overwhelms the story. Patricia Clarkson does a scene-stealing turn as Ms. Sheedy's lover, a glamorously decadent German actress who never got past the Fassbinder years (Maslin).
 
"HOPE FLOATS," starring Sandra Bullock, Harry Connick Jr. and Gena Rowlands. Directed by Forest Whitaker (PG-13, 112 minutes). This pajama-party women's picture starts out on a talk show and stays there, raising issues like divorce, single parenthood, mother-daughter relationships, caring for aging relatives and summoning the courage to date after trauma. But Ms. Bullock, who is actually seen cheerleading here, gives her best approximation of America's sweetheart since "While You Were Sleeping," and her winning performance helps make up for the film's cute streak and rosy, commercial glow. Ms. Rowlands does a feisty, down-to-earth turn as the star's Texas mama, even if the story gives her taxidermy for an offbeat hobby. As the post-divorce dreamboat, Mr. Connick is on the tepid side. "The Horse Whisperer" does this kind of serene, resuscitating romance much better (Maslin).
 
* "THE HORSE WHISPERER," starring Robert Redford, Kristin Scott Thomas and Scarlett Johansson. Directed by Robert Redford (PG-13, 164 minutes). There's a blunt soap opera of a movie inside Nicholas Evans's widely popular novel. But Mr. Redford, directing himself for the first time with intelligence and restraint, has found a visually eloquent way to turn it into something much more thoughtful and tranquil. Magnificently photographed by Robert Richardson, this film is a wide-screen love affair with the West, and a story more of peace and healing than of ardor. Though it's long and its resolution is a problem, this is an enveloping film that richly rewards the viewer's attention (Maslin).
 
* "THE LAND GIRLS," starring Catherine McCormack, Rachel Weisz, Anna Friel and Steven Mackintosh. Directed by David Leland (R, 112 minutes). A sentimental valentine to the Women's Land Army, the legion of young women dispatched across England during World War II to assume jobs vacated by fighting men, this film presses familiar nostalgic buttons but not so aggressively that it makes you feel queasy. Good girl Stella (Ms. McCormack); bad girl Prue (Ms. Friel), and nerdy academic Ag (Ms. Weisz), women from varying backgrounds, share cramped quarters on the same Dorset farm where they plow fields, milk cows and have their romantic turns with the owner's frisky son, Joe (Mr. Mackintosh). Rich with period detail and atmosphere, the movie leaves the inner lives of its characters largely unexplored to paint a heroic canvas of romantic turmoil and noble self-sacrifice (Holden).
 
* "THE LAST DAYS OF DISCO," starring Kate Beckinsale and Chloe Sevigny. Directed by Whit Stillman (R, 112 minutes). Mr. Stillman's smart, fretful, patrician characters turn up midway between "Metropolitan" and "Barcelona" in a film that charmingly mixes post-college career worries with improbable discomania. A delightful cast engages in nonstop flirtation and hair-splitting debate, rendered with Mr. Stillman's usual acuity and humor. Ms. Beckinsale, an English actress with a flawless American accent here and diffidence that's just as perfect, holds court beguilingly at the center of a bright and amusing crowd. The ideal film for anyone willing to entertain the notion that the spread of environmentalism was sparked by the revival of "Bambi" during the disco generation's formative years (Maslin).
 
* "A PERFECT MURDER," starring Michael Douglas, Gwyneth Paltrow and Viggo Mortensen. Directed by Andrew Davis (R, 107 minutes). The characters may be cardboard-thin in this film, a skillfully plotted update of Frederick Knott's play (and Alfred Hitchcock's film) "Dial M for Murder," but the nasty cat-and-mouse games they play are icily amusing. Mr. Douglas, looking more than ever like a wattled, riled-up rooster, is Steven Taylor, a shady Wall Street bond trader in deep financial trouble who hires his rich wife's handsome lover (Mr. Mortensen), a con man posing as a painter, to murder her. It's not as easy as he hopes. Ms. Paltrow, looking chic and twinkly, is the wife, Emily, a translator at the United Nations, who has her own agenda. The story takes enough surprising twists to keep you engrossed, and the high-style ambiance (especially the Taylors' Fifth Avenue apartment) is mouthwatering (Holden).
 
"SIX DAYS, SEVEN NIGHTS," starring Anne Heche and Harrison Ford. Directed by Ivan Reitman (PG-13, 146 minutes). This escapist romance for the Treadmill Generation is a workout in its own right, putting its stars through the wringer (and into a "From Here to Eternity" surf clinch complete with hiking boots). The leads are attractive and funny, and the screenplay strives for a Tracy-Hepburn dynamic, but this truly strenuous love story is as long on tropical scenery as it is short on new ideas. Once the stars are marooned in splendid isolation, the film has to cook up pirates and a snake in Ms. Heche's shorts just to keep afloat. In supporting roles, David Schwimmer makes a drippy beau for Ms. Heche; Temuera Morrison deserves his own pirate picture, and the ex-grocery clerk Jacqueline Obrados torches up the film as if Salma Hayek were in town (Maslin).
 
* "THE SPANISH PRISONER," starring Campbell Scott, Rebecca Pidgeon, Ben Gazzara and Steve Martin. Written and directed by David Mamet (PG, 112 minutes). The most engaging of Mr. Mamet's cinematic puzzles begins with an X-ray at an airport security check. And the audience will wish it had a similar device for reading the characters' sneaky minds. No such luck: the mystery here, in a handsome and Hitchcockian film named for an elaborate con game, stays tricky to the very end. Mr. Scott plays the inventor of a lucrative, stealable scientific process, with Mr. Gazzara as the boss who's in no hurry to compensate him for it. In an ensemble cast working entirely on the calculating Mamet wavelength, Mr. Martin plays a rich, debonair mystery man who tells the inventor all about his pretty young sister. In her performance as a pert, unaccountably off-kilter secretary, Ms. Pidgeon perfectly embodies the film's sleight of hand (Maslin).
 
* "TITANIC," starring Leonardo DiCaprio, Kate Winslet and Gloria Stuart. Directed by James Cameron (PG-13, 197 minutes). For once, a much-touted event movie is exactly that: a glorious throwback to the days when epic storytelling really filled the screen. Despite the astonishing technological advances behind Mr. Cameron's great visual spectacle, gimmicks are never allowed to intrude on the film's central illusion, that the audience is drawn back into the Gilded Age and intimately involved in the fateful voyage. For all its painstaking historical detail, this "Titanic" proves anything but quaint, thanks to the phenomenal immediacy of its sights and the pure Hollywood hokum of its story. As two young lovers whose romance is skillfully interwoven with historical detail, Ms. Winslet and Mr. DiCaprio are a duo with serious chemistry. With his "Gone With the Wind"-caliber ambitions, Mr. Cameron dared to dream of the impossible and came up with the movie of the year (Maslin).
 
* "THE TRUMAN SHOW," starring Jim Carrey, Laura Linney and Ed Harris. Directed by Peter Weir and written by Andrew Niccol (PG, 104 minutes). The ultimate in high-concept ingenuity. Hosannas and cartwheels for this ingenious media-age fantasy are over the top, but by comparison with Hollywood's usual notion of summer movie fare, it's definitely a dazzler. Jim Carrey, refreshingly free of shtick, gives an instantly iconic performance as a guinea pig for an entertainment-happy nation, a man whose whole life is a fraud contrived by Mr. Harris's so-called "televisionary." Mr. Carrey's innate edge of volatility gives the material, from a screenplay of transfixing sci-fi intensity, its trace of danger. Ms. Linney, as the actress playing a wife whose bluff could be called at any moment, is the story's spookiest character as well as its perkiest. Mr. Weir unifies the story's many nuances with great finesse (Maslin)
 
Film Series
 
"COMDEN AND GREEN." He was an unemployed actor from the Bronx. She was a New York University theater major from Brooklyn. Their names were Adolph Green and Betty Comden, and their collaboration, which began six decades ago, led to films like "On the Town," "The Barkleys of Broadway" and "Auntie Mame." Now, as part of its yearlong "NYC 100" celebration, the Film Forum is presenting a two-week festival of musicals written by Comden and Green, along with some of their favorite films. Showings are on Mondays. This weekend brings a double feature of Gene Kelly and Stanley Donen's "Singin' in the Rain" (1952), with Donald O'Connor and Debbie Reynolds, and Vincente Minnelli's "Band Wagon" (1953), with Fred Astaire, Cyd Charisse, Nanette Fabray and Oscar Levant. The series continues through June 25 at the Film Forum, 209 West Houston Street, in the South Village. Tickets: $8.50; $4.50 for the elderly on weekdays. Screening schedule and information: (212) 727-8110.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Anne Heche and Harrison Ford are stranded in the South Pacific in "Six Days, Seven Nights." (Bruce McBroom/Buena Vista Picture Distributors); Jessica Lange, left, and Elisabeth Shue in "Cousin Bette," based on Balzac's novel of 1840's Paris. (David Koskas/Fox Searchlight Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES FILM (91%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (76%); THEATER & DRAMA (74%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (73%); THEATER (58%); SPECIAL EFFECTS (50%); JOURNALISM (50%); FAMILY (50%); 

PERSON: HARRISON FORD (58%); JOHNNY DEPP (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1998



456 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 4; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Short Supplies Imperil The Year-End Closeout

BYLINE: By MICHELLE KREBS 

DATELINE: DETROIT

 BODY:
THE best time to buy a new car is August or September, right? Perhaps not this year: The end-of-the-model-year clearance may have already begun.
Sellers usually offer their best deals in late summer and early fall, as dealers try to clear their lots and showrooms to make room for the next year's models. This year, however, supplies are already low, thanks to a hearty economy, near-record vehicle sales, generous sales incentives and a spreading auto worker strike against the General Motors Corporation. With fewer cars to sell, manufacturers are likely to cut back on their inducements to buyers. 
 "The axiom that the best deals of the year are in the third quarter, at the end of the model year, could take a hiatus this year," George Pipas, a Ford Motor Company spokesman, said in a telephone interview.
United States vehicle sales reached 1.5 million cars and trucks in May, making it the strongest month since September 1986. The seasonally adjusted annual selling rate reached 16.3 million, the best level since October 1987, and the trend appears to be continuing this month.
James P. Holden, the Chrysler Corporation's executive vice president for sales and marketing, said Chrysler's sales have been strong this month. In May, Chrysler sold 250,000 cars and trucks, a one-month record.
The strong car and truck sales are set against the backdrop of a robust economy, and low interest rates have brought a wave of mortgage refinancings, putting more money in Americans' pockets. But vehicle manufacturers have also offered sweeteners, spending as much as $1,700 a vehicle on sales incentives like cash rebates, low-interest loans and discount coupons in May and June, up from about $1,100 a year earlier.
In April, after G.M.'s share of the United States vehicle market fell below 30 percent, the company sent previous customers certificates of $500 to $1,000 to use toward the purchase of 50 models, above and beyond other incentives. Ford and Chrysler matched G.M.'s program with their own loyalty incentives and agreed to accept G.M.'s certificates. G.M. has declined to take coupons from Ford and Chrysler.
The loyalty programs expire on July 2 and are unlikely to be continued in their current form. "My guess is they will expire and be replaced with something else that is not quite as expensive for the auto makers," said David Healy, the auto analyst for Burnham Securities in New York.
 The industry is now closely watching strike developments at G.M., the largest auto maker. Since workers at two Michigan parts factories walked out two weeks ago, 19 of G.M.'s 29 North American assembly plants have shut down, idling 80,000 workers. Analysts say that if the strike is not settled soon it is likely to last into mid-July, when a two-week plant shutdown was previously scheduled. The strike, along with healthy spring sales, have caused supplies of G.M.'s cars and trucks, especially the most popular models, to dwindle.
Inventories are particularly low of two all-new compact cars, the Pontiac Grand Am/Oldsmobile Alero, that were just introduced; of the Chevrolet Tahoe/GMC Yukon sport utilities, and of the Chevrolet Malibu sedan. If the strike continues, it could interfere with production of G.M.'s most important models: all-new, full-size Chevrolet and GMC pickups that replace the company's highly profitable, best-selling vehicles.
"The longer the strike lasts, the more dealers will find themselves short of popular models," Mr. Healy said. "G.M. will have nothing to sell, so it won't need incentives."
This is not to say that incentives will disappear. The intense competition of 1998 may well intensify in the 1999 model year, which begins in October. "I don't think the long-term landscape has changed that much, but the short-term landscape may well change," Mr. Pipas said.
As Mr. Holden put it: "Consumer incentives will continue, but the war is over."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP FORD MOTOR CO (93%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LABOR; STRIKES AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); STRIKES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); LOYALTY MARKETING (89%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES REBATES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (76%); SALES & SELLING (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (64%); RETAIL COUPONS (56%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%); 

PERSON: KREBS, MICHELLE

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1998



457 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Every Currency Crumbles

BYLINE: By James Grant; James Grant is the editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer.

 BODY:
Currencies, being made of paper, are highly flammable, and governments are forever trying to put out the fires. Thus a half decade before the bonfire of the baht, the rupiah and the yen, there was the conflagration of the markka, the lira and the pound. The dollar, today's global standard of value, was smoldering ominously as recently as 1992.
Monetary crises are almost as old as money. What is different today is the size of these episodes. It isn't every monetary era that features recurrent seismic shifts in the exchange values of so-called major currencies. On Wednesday morning, after coordinated American and Japanese intervention, the weakling yen became 5 percent less weak in a matter of hours. 
 People with even a little bit of money ought to be asking what it's made of. J. S. G. Boggs, an American artist, has made an important contribution to monetary theory with his lifelike paintings of dollar bills. So authentic do these works appear -- at least at first glance, before Mr. Boggs's own signature ornamentation becomes apparent -- that the Secret Service has investigated him for counterfeiting. "All money is art," Mr. Boggs has responded.
Currency management is a political art. The intrinsic value of a unit of currency is the cost of the paper and printing. The stated value of a unit of currency derives from the confidence of the holder in the promises of the issuing government.
It cannot undergird confidence that the monetary fires are becoming six- and seven-alarmers. Writing in 1993 about the crisis of the European Rate Mechanism (in which George Soros bested the Bank of England by correctly anticipating a devaluation of the pound), a central bankers' organization commented: "Despite its geographical confinement to Europe, it is probably no exaggeration to say that the period from late 1991 to early 1993 witnessed the most severe and widespread foreign exchange market crisis since the breakdown of the Bretton Woods System 20 years ago." But the European crisis has been handily eclipsed by the Asian one.
Monetary systems have broken down every generation or so for the past century. The true-blue international gold standard didn't survive World War I. Its successor, a half-strength gold standard, didn't survive the Great Depression. The Bretton Woods regime -- in which the dollar was convertible into gold and the other, lesser currencies were convertible into the dollar -- didn't survive the inflationary period of the late 1960's and early 1970's.
Today, the unnamed successor to Bretton Woods is showing its years. The present-day system is also dollar-based, but it differs from Bretton Woods in that the dollar is no longer anchored to anything. It is defined as 100 cents and only as 100 cents. Its value is derived not from a specified weight of gold, as it was up until Aug. 15, 1971, but from the confidence of the market.
For the moment, the market is highly confident. So is the world at large. In 1996, the Federal Reserve Board estimated that some 60 percent of all American currency in existence circulates overseas. The dollar has become the Coca-Cola of monetary brands.
However, as Madison Avenue knows as well as Wall Street, brand loyalties are fickle. In the early 1890's, the United States Treasury was obliged to seek a bailout from the Morgan bank. During the great inflation of the 1970's, Italian hotel clerks, offered payments in dollars, rolled their eyes. The yen, today reckoned dangerously weak at 140 or so to the dollar, was 360 as recently as 1971. The tendency of the purchasing power of every paper currency down through the ages is to regress. Is there any good reason that the dollar, universally esteemed today, should be different?
None. Certainly, the deterioration of the American balance-of-payments position doesn't bode well for the dollar's long-term exchange rate. Consuming more than it produces, the United States must finance the shortfall. And it is privileged to be able to pay its overseas bills with dollars, the currency that it alone can legally produce. Thailand would be a richer country today if the world would accept baht, and nothing but baht, in exchange for goods and services. It won't, of course. America and the dollar are uniquely blessed.
Or were. France and Germany have led the movement to create a pan-European currency, one that would compete with the dollar as both a store of value and a medium of exchange. The euro, as the new monetary brand is called, constitutes the first serious competitive threat to the dollar since the glory days of the pound sterling.
In a world without a fixed standard of value, a currency is strong or weak only in relation to other currencies. The dollar's "strength," therefore, is a mirror image of -- for example -- the yen's "weakness." It is not necessarily a reflection of the excellence of the American economy.
And no degree of excellence can forestall a new monetary crisis indefinitely. Some monetary systems are better than others, and some last longer than others, but each and every one comes a cropper. The bezant, the standard gold coin of the Byzantine empire, was minted for 800 years at the same weight and fineness. The gold may still be in existence (in fact -- no small recommendation for gold bullion -- it probably is), but the empire has fallen.
After the 1994 crisis involving the Mexican peso, the world's financial establishment vowed to stave off a recurrence. Even as the experts delivered their speeches, however, Asian banks were overlending and Asian businesses were overborrowing; the credit-cum-currency eruption followed in short order. Naturally, officials and editorialists are now calling for even better fire prevention systems.
But "stability," the goal so sought after, is ever unattainable. The history of currencies is unambiguous. The law is, Ashes to ashes and dust to dust.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Scott Menchin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEVALUATION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); GREAT DEPRESSION (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); PAINTING (73%); COUNTERFEITING (51%); WORLD WAR I (50%); 

PERSON: GRANT, JAMES GEORGE SOROS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1998



458 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: Lucent Sues Cisco Over Use of Technology

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: MURRAY HILL, N.J., June 18

 BODY:
Lucent Technologies, the largest United States phone-equipment maker, sued Cisco Systems today, contending that it violated patents on technologies Cisco uses in several types of computer-networking equipment.
 Lucent is seeking unspecified damages against Cisco, the No. 1 maker of equipment to link computers to the Internet. In the suit, filed in Federal District Court in Delaware, Lucent also seeks an injunction to stop further use of the technology. 
 As sales to corporate customers slow, Cisco is trying to increase business with phone companies and Internet service providers, which have often bought Lucent equipment.
While much underlying technology used in networking equipment was patented by Bell Labs, Lucent's forerunner, Cisco "has done a lot of their own work" developing their products, said Maribel Lopez of Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass.
The suit contends that most of Cisco's major product lines, including its most profitable routers and switches, use patented Lucent technology. A Lucent spokesman, John Callaghan, said his company had tried for 18 months to negotiate a licensing agreement with Cisco.
Cisco said it was reviewing the details of the suit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (97%); ALU (PAR) (93%); ALU (NYSE) (93%); ALU (BIT) (93%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (97%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (93%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES; CISCO SYSTEMS INC CISCO SYSTEMS INC (97%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (93%); BELL LABORATORIES (57%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES; CISCO SYSTEMS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; INVENTIONS AND PATENTS SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); PATENTS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (91%); DAMAGES (90%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (90%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (90%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (72%); INJUNCTIONS (71%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (70%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1998



459 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Rise; G.M. Strike Is a Factor

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 18

 BODY:
Jobless claims jumped by 13,000 in the week that ended last Saturday, in part because workers were idled by the recent strike at the General Motors Corporation, the Government said today.
The number of people filing new claims for unemployment benefits in mid-June rose to 327,000, the Labor Department said, in a week in which more than 50,000 people were affected by strikes in the auto industry. 
 Though not all of them would have been eligible to file claims immediately, Cindy Ambler, a Labor Department spokeswoman, said some of the first-time claimants in the figures for last week included G.M. strike-related applications in New Jersey and Kansas.
In the previous week, Government figures showed 314,000 people filed first-time claims for unemployment insurance benefits.
The rise brought the weekly average rate of new claims over the last four weeks -- a more accurate measurement -- to 322,000, up from 318,750 in the prior four-week period.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); GENERAL MOTORS CORP US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; AUTOMOBILES; STRIKES JOBLESS CLAIMS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); 

PERSON: CINDY AMBLER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1998



460 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Dow Retreats by 16.45 As Asia Optimism Shrinks

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks retreated slightly yesterday from Wednesday's powerful rally, as optimism over a possible turnaround in Asia waned.
Stocks surged on Wednesday after the United States spent an estimated $4 billion worth of dollars to support the yen and Japan pledged to clean up a banking system that has $600 billion worth of bad debts. And stocks were sharply higher in many Asian markets again yesterday: the Nikkei index of 225 leading Japanese issues closed up 646.16 points, or 4.39 percent, and Hong Kong's benchmark Hang Seng index closed up 511.62 points, or 6.39 percent. 
 But the global rally faded in Europe, where most markets recorded modest declines. Many investors are skeptical that Japan will take the necessary steps to shore up its troubled banking system.
"From what I can see, it's going to take a while longer" for Japan to turn its economy around, said Mark Seferovich, a money manager for Waddell & Reed Financial Inc., which manages $23 billion.
The Dow Jones industrial average, which fell 207.01 points on Monday and surged 164.17 points points on Wednesday, was much steadier yesterday, falling 16.45 points, or two-tenths of 1 percent, to 8,813.01.
Other indexes were lower. The Standard & Poor's 500 Index fell 0.74, or one-tenth of 1 percent, to 1,106.37. The Nasdaq composite index fell 3.70, or two-tenths of 1 percent, to 1,772.70. Today, the market faces a so-called triple witching, the expiration of options on common stocks and stock indexes, and futures on stock indexes. The expiration often creates volatile markets as investors buy and sell shares to offset the options positions.
I.B.M. led the Dow's decline yesterday, falling 2 3/16 , to 108 13/16 . Japan accounted for 13 percent of the company's revenue in the first quarter, while the rest of Asia accounted for 5 percent of revenue, said Laura Conigliaro, an analyst with Goldman, Sachs & Company.
"We have grown increasingly concerned about the worsening situation in Asia and the weakened yen," Ms. Conigliaro told clients in a report.
Philip Morris, one of the 30 Dow industrials, rose 1 1/8, to 39 9/16 , after the Senate on Wednesday rejected a tobacco bill that would have raised Federal cigarette taxes more than fourfold in less than five years. The RJR Nabisco Holdings Corporation gained 3/4, to 25 1/16 .
Drug stocks kept the S.& P, 500 from falling as much as other indexes as investors sought companies that will report steady earnings regardless of Asia's economic slowdown. Pfizer Inc. rose 2 1/8, to 114 3/8; Merck & Company gained 1 1/8, to 128 7/8; Abbott Laboratories rose 15/16 , to 40 7/8, and Schering-Plough Corporation rose 1 5/8, to 92 1/4.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Up
 (By Bridge News) -- Treasury prices edged up yesterday, as the dollar recovered modestly against the Japanese yen and investors hunted for bargains after bonds' two-day selloff.
"People are jumping in and bottom fishing," said Stephen Gallagher, director of United States economic research at Societe Generale.
The price of the 30-year bond rose 19/32 , to 106 2/32 . The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, slipped to 5.70 percent from 5.73 percent.
Gains in the Treasury market yesterday were concentrated at the long end. Traders said some of the demand for 10-year notes session was related to the pricings of a couple of big commercial mortgage-backed deals. Elsewhere, the Treasury auctioned $10 billion of one-year bills at an average discounted rate of 5.13 percent. Following are the results of the auction:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Average Price . . . 94.813
Discounted Rate . . . 5.13%
Coupon Yield . . . 5.41%
High Price . . . 94.823
Discounted Rate . . . 5.13%
Coupon Yield . . . 5.12%
Low Price . . . 94.813
Discounted Rate . . . 5.12%
Coupon Yield . . . 5.40%
Accepted at low price . . . 34%
Total applied for . . . $48,043,117
Accepted . . . $15,072,779
Noncompetitive . . . $981,764
 
The one-year bills mature June 24, 1999.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Tax Exempt Yields" shows average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly since February. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 
"One-Year Treasury Bills" shows average discounted rate of one-year Treasury bills at monthly auction, for 1997 and 1998. (Source: Treasury Department)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (80%); MRK (NYSE) (80%); ABT (SWX) (80%); ABT (NYSE) (80%); ABT (LSE) (80%); ABL (FRA) (80%); PFZ (LSE) (80%); PFE (NYSE) (80%); WDR (NYSE) (69%); GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (80%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (80%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (80%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (69%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (51%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (96%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (80%); ABBOTT LABORATORIES (80%); PFIZER INC (80%); WADDELL & REED FINANCIAL INC (69%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); KRAFT NABISCO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (96%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMON STOCK (79%); CURRENCIES (79%); BANK FAILURES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); JAPANESE YEN (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); COMPANY REVENUES (62%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (60%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1998



461 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Texas Instruments to Eliminate 3,500 Jobs

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON 

DATELINE: DALLAS, June 18

 BODY:
The cutbacks coursing through the chip industry reached Texas Instruments Inc. today as the company announced plans to eliminate 3,500 jobs, or 8 percent of its work force. The company cited both the recent sale of several divisions and a weak, glutted market for chips, especially in Asia.
The cut follows word in April that National Semiconductor was chopping 1,400 jobs and Intel, 3,000 jobs, and word in June that Motorola was eliminating 15,000 jobs. 
 To further protect itself, Texas Instruments reached an agreement today to sell its computer memory chip business to Micron Technology Inc. for about $641 million in stock plus $190 million in debt. The deal, which was expected, will make Micron Technology the world's largest maker of memory chips, with about 18 percent of the market, several percentage points more than Samsung.
Though Texas Instruments is probably selling its memory chip operations at a loss, analysts pointed instead to the avoidance of continuing losses in that division. "Do I think it's positive for T.I.?" said John M. Geraghty of Credit Suisse First Boston. "Absolutely." In having to cut its staff, he added, Texas Instruments is no different from other chip makers. "All this capacity comes on stream and works very well," he said. "All of a sudden everyone turns around and says, 'Oops.' "
The chip companies are facing a global oversupply and falling prices for their products, aggravated by Asia's economic turmoil.
"We have said the worldwide semiconductor market would grow 5 percent or less this year," William A. Aylesworth, chief financial officer at Texas Instruments, said in an interview. "We would certainly emphasize the 'or less' today, especially with the weakness of the yen and other currencies and very depressed semiconductor prices."
Of the 3,500 jobs to be cut, about 2,500 will be in the United States, including 600 from the closing of a memory chip plant near the company's base in Dallas. The cutback will save the company about $270 million a year before taxes, but incentives and other costs will roughly equal the savings over the first year. The company anticipates some layoffs, with the number depending on how many workers depart voluntarily.
Having already sold off military electronics and laptop computer divisions, Texas Instruments will remain a maker of specialized chips, primarily those called digital signal processors, which are used in cellular phones, computer networking equipment, cars and computer components such as modems and hard drives. Though demand for these chips is growing rapidly, Mr. Aylesworth said that computer makers already had excessive inventories of components such as hard drives.
Micron Technology plans to capitalize on its position as the memory chip industry's low-cost producer. To make the necessary investments, especially in the purchased operations, Micron Technology won an agreement to borrow $750 million from Texas Instruments.
Texas Instruments in turn becomes Micron Technology's largest shareholder, with about 12 percent of the company. Texas Instruments will hold more than 16 percent if it exercises its right to convert most of its loan into more shares.
Micron Technology also reported today a third-quarter loss that was bigger than expected. The company, which is based in Boise, Idaho, posted a loss of $106.1 million, compared with earnings of $96.8 million in the quarter a year earlier.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TXN (NASDAQ) (96%); MU (NASDAQ) (94%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (57%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (96%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); ASIA (91%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (91%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC; MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (96%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (94%); INTEL CORP (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (57%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC; MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (91%); ASIA (91%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%); TEXAS, USA (91%); DALLAS, TX, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; COMPUTER CHIPS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES COMPUTER CHIPS (92%); MEMORY CHIPS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (76%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); JAPANESE YEN (63%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (60%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1998



462 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: More Welfare Recipients Going to Work, Study Finds

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 18

 BODY:
Millions of people have left the welfare rolls since Congress overhauled the Federal program two years ago, but what happened to them has been a puzzle for policy makers. Now, the most comprehensive study of the new system says more and more are going to work.
The General Accounting Office, a nonpartisan arm of Congress, said today that there had been sharp increases in the proportion of welfare recipients being placed in jobs. 
 The findings address one of the biggest questions about social welfare policy in the United States. Officials have expressed many opinions but until now have had only sketchy information about what happened to the people leaving welfare.
Since shortly after President Clinton took office, the number of people on welfare has fallen 37 percent, to 8.9 million in March 1998 from 14.1 million in January 1993. The number has dropped 27 percent since August 1996, when Mr. Clinton signed a bill ending the Federal guarantee of cash assistance for poor children.
The accounting office examined the experiences of seven states chosen to be representative of the nation as a whole. In five of the states, it found "significant increases" in the proportion of welfare recipients who obtained jobs.
"California, Louisiana and Maryland more than doubled their job placement rates from 1995 to 1997, and Oregon and Wisconsin increased their rates by more than 70 percent," the report said.
Texas had a slight decline in the proportion of welfare recipients who found jobs. Data from Connecticut, while not exactly comparable, showed a substantial increase in the number of families leaving welfare because of increased earnings.
The General Accounting Office reported that 17 percent of Maryland's welfare recipients were placed in jobs in 1997, up from 4 percent in 1995. In Louisiana, the proportion rose to 17 percent, from 6 percent, while in California it rose to 19 percent from 9 percent.
Many more people, beyond those who found employment, were required to participate in "work activities" that prepare them for jobs, the report said.
Representative Sander M. Levin of Michigan, the ranking Democrat on the House subcommittee responsible for welfare legislation, reacted to the report with cautious optimism. "So far, so good," Mr. Levin said, "but there's much left to be done."
In 1995 and 1996, opponents of the welfare bill predicted that states would try to outdo one another in cutting welfare benefits and adopting punitive measures to keep poor people away. In an interview today, Mr. Levin said, "We have not seen a race to the bottom."
But Mr. Levin said the progress of the last two years would be jeopardized if House Republicans cut spending on programs for poor people, as required under the budget blueprint approved by the House on June 5.
Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr., the Florida Republican who is chairman of the subcommittee, welcomed the report as evidence that "welfare reform is working."
Authors of the report were quick to point out that some important questions remained unanswered. The report does not show the effects of the 1996 law on the well-being of children. It does not measure the extent of hunger or homelessness among people removed from the welfare rolls. Nor does it show what will happen if the economy, now booming, turns sour.
The accounting office said people who left welfare in the last few years were "the most readily employable," while those remaining may have more difficulty getting jobs because they have fewer skills, less education or more serious medical problems.
In its report, the accounting office also made these points:
*Forty-two states have liberalized their rules on earned income so that welfare recipients can keep more of their cash assistance payments after they begin working. Nearly all states have increased their limits on the value of automobiles and other assets that people can own while receiving public assistance.
*The proportion of welfare recipients who are told to pursue education and job training has declined in the last three years. Instead, people are routinely told as soon as they apply for welfare to get jobs.
*Nineteen states have adopted stricter time limits on welfare than the five-year limit set by the 1996 Federal law. But most of these states make exceptions in some cases.
For example, welfare recipients in Connecticut may obtain a six-month extension of the state's 21-month time limit if they "have made a good-faith effort to comply with work requirements, but have been unable to find employment," the report said.
In Connecticut, the General Accounting Office found that 2,667 families had reached the 21-month time limit by December 1997. In this group, 1,666 families lost welfare benefits, but 1,001 families, representing more than one-third of the total, got extensions allowing them to continue receiving cash assistance.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (84%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (84%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); FAMILY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT SANDER M LEVIN (79%); BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1998



463 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: IRAQ IS SMUGGLING OIL TO THE TURKS UNDER GAZE OF U.S.

BYLINE: By JAMES RISEN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 18

 BODY:
Iraq is smuggling large volumes of oil into Turkey in violation of United Nations sanctions, United States and Turkish Government officials say.
The officials say the Clinton Administration has chosen to look the other way, aware that the smuggling benefits Turkey, a crucial ally in the American policy toward Iraq, and Kurds who deny the Iraqi Government of President Saddam Hussein control over northern Iraq. 
 Still, the region is replete with double-dealing and surprising alliances, and Administration officials acknowledge that the Kurdish leader benefiting from the smuggling betrayed the United States less than two years ago.
Thousands of trucks transport millions of tons of oil, diesel fuel and other refined products to Turkey annually, openly traversing roads that United States and allied warplanes fly over in northern Iraq, officials acknowledge.
The smuggling is enriching President Hussein's Government and family, these officials say, at a time when the Iraqi leader is chafing under the United Nations' restrictions on official oil exports, which have been in place since the Persian Gulf war eight years ago.
Until the United Nations determines that the Government has eliminated programs to develop weapons of mass destruction, it has prohibited Iraq from exporting oil except through a limited program to raise money for humanitarian relief.
But the Clinton Administration has decided not to try to stop the smuggling even though the United States is trying to hold together a coalition in support of economic sanctions against Iraq.
The smuggling has been going on for some years, and Clinton Administration officials say they have privately complained to the Government in Turkey, where the smuggled oil now makes up a big part of the fuel sold in the retail market. Officials say the Administration has never moved to curb the traffic, choosing instead to appease the Turks and the Kurdish faction that controls northern Iraq and the border crossing where the oil is smuggled.
"The tendency has been to turn a blind eye because the Turks are benefiting from it at a time when the Turks are complaining anyway about sanctions on Iraq," one Administration official said. The smuggling is creating jobs and helping the economy of southern Turkey, which has been badly hurt by the trade sanctions. "While Saddam is making money on it, the Turks and Kurds are too," the official said.
American officials add that other important nations involved in enforcing the United Nations sanctions against Iraq have also quietly decided to ignore the smuggling.
"I think the international community has decided not to object, not just us," one official said.
The smuggling dates back to 1992 and the aftermath of the gulf war, according to Clinton Administration officials. They emphasize that when the traffic began, the Bush Administration was in office and it too ignored the Turkish smuggling.
"I think this Administration inherited a decision from the Bush Administration not to object," one official said.
But the smuggling has clearly gone from being a minor loophole in the embargo against Iraqi oil into a much more significant source of income for Mr. Hussein and a well-entrenched outlet for the Iraqis. With no American or allied effort to impede the traffic, 50,000 to 60,000 barrels of Iraqi oil and fuel products a day are now being smuggled along the Turkish route, Clinton Administration officials estimate. Iraq smuggles a roughly equal amount of oil by sea, to Iran, Dubai and other spots. Together, the two routes account for up to 10 percent of Iraq's export capacity, American officials estimate.
United States warships, as part of a multinational force, have been trying for several years to curb sea-borne smuggling, stopping some barges and other vessels in international waters in the Persian Gulf, Administration officials said. Earlier this year, Iran briefly curbed the Iraqi oil smuggling along its waterways, but United States officials say the smuggling through the gulf route is now surging once again.
Kurdish leaders, Turkish trucking interests -- and undoubtedly Turkish Government officials along the border -- skim off money from the Turkish operation, American officials say. By contrast, they believe Mr. Hussein takes a much larger share of the spoils from the gulf smuggling.
Administration officials say Turkey has suffered so severely as a result of the sanctions on Iraq, with a loss of trade on its border, that the United States has decided to allow it to benefit from Iraqi oil smuggling. In addition, Administration officials say, the smuggling benefits the Kurdistan Democratic Party of Masoud Barzani, which taxes the oil as it passes through its territory.
"Turkey has paid a severe price for enforcing the sanctions against Iraq, and this offered a way for Turkey to get some recompense," an Administration official said.
"This helps the economy of southern Turkey and it helps Barzani," the official added. "It makes a small income for the Government of Iraq. It does not substantially increase the economy of Iraq in comparison to the prewar income it generated from oil exports."
Yet Kurdish leaders from the rival Patriotic Union of Kurdistan complain that the Clinton Administration's decision to allow Mr. Barzani to benefit from the smuggling is enriching a Kurdish leader who betrayed the United States less than two years ago.
Mr. Barzani, who was formerly on the payroll of the Central Intelligence Agency, double-crossed the C.I.A. by inviting the Iraqi Army into his territory in August 1996, crushing a United States covert program that was based on Kurdish support, according to United States intelligence officials.
Mr. Barzani's actions led to the scattering of thousands of Kurds and other dissidents who had supported the American effort to undermine support for President Hussein. About 6,500 Kurds were eventually given refuge in the United States after Mr. Barzani's betrayal.
American intelligence officials say they believe Mr. Barzani was enmeshed in Iraqi oil smuggling even when he was on the C.I.A. payroll involved in the covert program.
Now, rival Kurdish leaders say that the smuggling business is earning him millions of dollars while putting him directly into business with Uday Hussein, President Hussein's son. The rival Kurds say that at least part of the Barzani group'srevenues go to kickbacks to Uday. Independent oil experts agree that Uday Hussein appears to be in overall charge of smuggling operations.
But Clinton Administration officials say they do not believe that Mr. Barzani's involvement with the Hussein family has put him completely into its camp. Mr. Barzani's Kurdish group remains an independent force, they say, and continues to help deny Mr. Hussein control over northern Iraq. 'This has been going on for a long time, and it hasn't yet thrown him in with Saddam," one official said.
Over the last three or four years, Turkish and Kurdish officials say, the trade has grown so large that sometimes hundreds of trucks loaded with Iraqi oil have rumbled north each day. Hundreds of Turkish truckers have welded external fuel storage tanks onto their nonfuel trucks in order to cash in on the lucrative business.
The smuggled oil is primarily funneled across the Turkish border at the Khabour Bridge near the southeastern Turkish town of Silopi, according to American, Turkish and Kurdish officials.
One energy expert in the Turkish Government who spoke on the condition of anonymity estimated that Iraqi smuggling now accounts for about 25 percent of the Turkish fuel market, making it a significant concern to international oil companies trying to compete in Turkey.
Turkish Government officials, meanwhile, have been discussing ways to control the smuggling, in conjunction with their efforts to deregulate the country's fuel markets, Turkish officials said.
Officially, the United Nations prohibits all Iraqi oil exports except those that generate money for humanitarian aid in Iraq as well as for victims of the gulf war. In May, Secretary General Kofi Annan approved Iraq's plan for distributing food and medicine bought under this program, paving the way for Iraq to increase the amount of oil that it could export under the plan from $2 billion to $5.2 billion over the next six months.
All other Iraqi oil exports are officially banned, but in addition to the smuggling to Turkey and through the Persian Gulf, Iraq ships about 100,000 barrels of oil a day to Jordan. Jordan is almost completely dependent on Iraqi oil, and the shipments there have been informally accepted by the United Nations, American officials say.

GRAPHIC: Map of the Turkish-Iraqi border showing the route of oil smuggling: Iraqi oil smuggled into Turkey crosses the border near Silopi. (pg. A10)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); TURKEY (97%); IRAQ (96%); GULF STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; TURKEY; UNITED STATES (98%); TURKEY (97%); IRAQ (96%); GULF STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; SMUGGLING; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); DESERT STORM (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); DIESEL FUEL (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); JOB CREATION (64%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (52%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%); 

PERSON: RISEN, JAMES; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1998



464 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: WORLD CUP '98;
15,000 World Cup Tickets Reported Stolen

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: PARIS, June 18

 BODY:
An American tour company said today that 15,000 World Cup tickets were stolen from its Paris office this morning, the latest twist in the uproar over the sale of tickets for the monthlong tournament.
Gillian Pattison, a spokeswoman for Prime Sports International, said burglars broke into the company's offices early today, smashed a safe, grabbed more than $560,000 and made off with tickets for most of the remaining matches, including the final in St.-Denis on July 12. 
 The police confirmed that the robbery had taken place. But it was not clear why the company, based in Beverly Hills, Calif., had so much cash or so many tickets in its office.
A news release from the company offered a no-questions-asked reward of one million francs ($166,500) for information leading to the return of the tickets. It quoted a company official, Steve Yovetich, as saying the tickets, all promised to customers, were "important to our reputation."
Yovetich declined to respond to a telephone call, and Pattison said she could not elaborate beyond saying that all the tickets had been sold to "overseas customers" who would be reimbursed if the tickets were not recovered. Matt Thacker, an official at Prime Sports International in Beverly Hills, said he had no information, adding, "We are a little in the dark because of the time difference."
The theft came as complaints continued to pour in from thousands of supporters, including large Belgian, Brazilian and Japanese contingents, who say tour operators have promised them tickets that have not been delivered.
At least one Paris hotel had to call the police to calm an irate crowd of Brazilians whose promised tickets for the opening match 10 days ago had not appeared.
The police and prosecutors have opened investigations into possible fraud that have already led to the arrest of two officials linked to ISL Worldwide, the official marketing agency of the international soccer federation, FIFA, which organizes the World Cup.
As is customary in France with ongoing investigations, the police have declined to comment.
The World Cup, held every four years, has turned into an enormous business, with FIFA reaping large payments from the sale of television rights and sponsoring contracts.
As the fever to get tickets for games has mounted, prices for tickets have soared, with some reports suggesting that tickets for the final on July 12 may fetch over $15,000 each. There appear to be fortunes to be made on the black market, and advertisements have begun to appear daily in newspapers from people seeking tickets.
To date, the police and judicial investigations here have focused on ISL France, the French subsidiary of ISL Worldwide, which is based in Switzerland. The general director of the subsidiary, Marc Loison, and a consultant, Gilles Favard, have both been detained by the police for questioning on the possible fraudulent sale of tickets.
The arrests followed a lawsuit filed by a French lawyer, Francis Debacker, representing four Japanese tour operators who said they had paid for 15,000 tickets promised by Favard but never delivered. In theory, ISL France is supposed to market the World Cup but not sell any tickets.
The sale of tickets was directed by France's central organizing committee for the World Cup, which was further embarrassed today by reports that a confidential phone number leaked to a few privileged fans allowed them to buy huge blocks of seats when 170,000 tickets were put up for sale on a first-come, first-served basis on April 22.
Bruno Travade, a spokesman for the organizing committee, said the committee had asked France Telecom, the country's main telephone company, to conduct an investigation into the existence of a secret number and would file charges if necessary.
Official phone lines were constantly busy when the tickets went on sale, and newspapers here were full of calculations from mathematicians putting the odds of getting through at one in several million.
"The system of ticket sales was not organized in a perfect manner," said Sepp Blatter, the president of FIFA. "Indeed it was far from perfect."
As the ticket scandal raged, the police moved to stop trouble on another front. The sale of alcohol around a Paris stadium, the Parc des Princes, was banned during matches and for several hours before and after them. During the Germany-United States game on Monday, a number of German fans outside the stadium were arrested after minor clashes with the police.
Alcohol sales were also banned in the vicinity of five large video screens erected in the capital to show the games.
"We want to reassure Parisians of their security," Philippe Massoni, the chief of police, said. English soccer hooligans have not yet disturbed the peace of Paris, but reports of their behavior in the southern city of Marseilles have caused concern here despite the fact that England's next two games are in Toulouse and Lens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); 

COMPANY: PRIME SPORTS INTERNATIONAL IN-SPORTS INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRIME SPORTS INTERNATIONAL

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; PARIS (FRANCE); FRANCE (94%); BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (91%); 

SUBJECT: SOCCER; WORLD CUP (SOCCER); ROBBERIES AND THEFTS SPORTS (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SOCCER (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BURGLARY (78%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); ARRESTS (75%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); TOUR OPERATORS (73%); LITIGATION (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (62%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER STEVE YOVETICH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1998



465 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Asian Trouble Raised April's Trade Deficit

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 18

 BODY:
The Commerce Department released trade statistics today showing that the American economy was taking a bigger knock from Asia's financial crisis than expected.
The department reported that the trade deficit for April expanded to a new monthly high of $14.5 billion, well above the $13.3 billion projected by many economists, and up sharply from $13.2 billion in March. 
 The rise was partly accounted for by technical changes in the way the Government measures aircraft exports, and reflected the swollen value of the dollar in relation to Asian currencies.
But the figures showed that the deepening economic slump through much of Asia was drying up demand for many types of goods, costing American exporters orders in what had been one of their fastest-growing markets.
Total exports in April fell by 2.5 percent, to $77.1 billion, the lowest level in 14 months. Imports decreased eight-tenths of 1 percent, to $91.6 billion.
The drop in exports suggested that economic growth was slowing from a robust pace earlier in the year. A slowdown would reduce the risks of an increase in inflation, which many analysts think is the main threat to sustained economic health. But it would also cut into job creation and further bite into corporate profits, a prospect that is already souring the party-like atmosphere on Wall Street.
The nation's largest exporter, the Boeing Company of Seattle, said today that it expected a deepening recession in Asia to cost it orders for 90 aircraft over the next five years. Although the company said no Asian airlines had yet canceled any orders, Boeing has already announced plans to slow production of its flagship 747 jumbo jet.
Farmers, manufacturers of industrial materials and auto makers are also feeling the export losses particularly hard, the Commerce Department said. Texas Instruments, the technology company, said today that it would cut 3,500 jobs worldwide -- 8 percent of its work force -- because of weak demand for semiconductors from Asia and deep price cuts by Asian competitors struggling to survive the downturns in their home markets.
"The trade situation has to have a real impact, and it points to a substantial slowdown in the U.S.," said James Glassman, an economist with Chase Securities in New York. "This is a serious shock we're having to absorb."
Mr. Glassman said he expected growth to slow to 1.5 percent in the second quarter from 4.8 percent in the first quarter, and to be roughly flat in the second half of the year before rebounding in 1999.
Other analysts are less pessimistic, saying the economy is likely to continue growing, albeit at a more modest pace, through the second half. And debate continues among economists about whether Asia's effects alone will cool the domestic economy sufficiently to avert a need for an inflation-fighting interest rate increase by the Federal Reserve.
But the trade figures underscored the stake the United States has in helping to bring Asia's downward economic spiral under control.
The Asian troubles have so far brought as many benefits as drawbacks to the United States, including lower interest rates that have helped fuel a housing boom and allowed many homeowners to save money by refinancing their mortgages. But in the long run, economists said, the nation needs financial stability and economic growth abroad to sustain the vibrant domestic expansion that formally began in 1991.
Fearful that a long slide in the value of the Japanese currency could exacerbate Asia's problems and infect the rest of the world, the Clinton Administration joined with Japanese officials on Wednesday to buy yen, a move that Administration officials acknowledged was only a temporary measure.
The White House has been pushing Japan to do more to revive its own economy and help the rest of Asia. And the Administration has been pressing Congress to provide more money for the International Monetary Fund in case the Asian instability spreads. I.M.F. financing legislation is currently stalled in Congress.
"The fact is we've got to see other economies around the world begin to come back, especially in Asia," said Secretary of Commerce William M. Daley, "in order for U.S. exports, which have become a main part of the U.S. economic success of the last five years, to continue to grow."
The trade deficit has steadily increased thus far through 1998 as Japan slipped into recession and the economies of Indonesia, Thailand, South Korea and other big markets shrank.
The growth in the American deficit has been pushed along in recent months by the steep decline in the yen's value, reflecting the deep-rooted financial and economic problems bedeviling Japan at a time when the United States has been enjoying steady growth and low inflation.
The dollar's rise against the yen makes American products more expensive in Japan and Japanese products less expensive in the United States. Although the trade deficit with Tokyo narrowed in April, to $5.4 billion from $5.8 billion in March, economists said they expected it to increase in coming months, reflecting the sharp run-up in the dollar's value between April and this week's intervention in the currency markets.
The deficit with China expanded in April to $4.3 billion from $3.8 billion a month earlier. President Clinton leaves next week on a trip to China, and he is expected to press the leadership there to lower trade barriers to improve their chances of joining the World Trade Organization and to help defuse political tensions with the United States.
The cumulative worldwide trade deficit for the first four months of the year stood at $49.3 billion, 33 percent higher than for the same period last year.
The cumulative deficit with the Pacific Rim nations alone for the first four months was $46.7 billion, a 38 percent increase over the similar period last year.
The Commerce Department also said today that the nation's current-account deficit, a broader measure of trade performance, expanded to $47.2 billion in the first quarter from $45 billion in the fourth quarter of 1997.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Balance of Trade" shows imports vs. exports, the deficit and the deficit's 12-month moving average, since Nov. 1996. (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. D2)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%); TXN (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (53%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; BOEING CO; TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC BOEING CO (84%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; BOEING CO; TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN; CHINA; PACIFIC RIM; ASIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; COMPUTER CHIPS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EXPORT TRADE (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); RECESSION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); AIRLINES (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (76%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); JOB CREATION (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (63%); AUTOMAKERS (63%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (63%); COMPUTER CHIPS (62%); INTEREST RATES (60%); SEMICONDUCTORS (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1998



466 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 77 words

HEADLINE: Deeper Asia Slump Hurts U.S. Exporters

 BODY:
Asia's financial crisis is hurting the American economy more than expected, new trade statistics released by the Government show. 
 The Commerce Department said the trade deficit for April expanded to a new monthly high of $14.5 billion, well above the $13.3 billion projected by many economists. An important reason for the widening gap between imports and exports is sharply diminished demand for American products in Asia.
Business Day, page D1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ASIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (88%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1998



467 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: From Mental Illness to Yale to Murder Charge

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER with JANE GROSS 

DATELINE: HASTINGS-ON-HUDSON, N.Y., June 18

 BODY:
For more than a decade, Michael B. Laudor had wrestled with the demons of schizophrenia, managing to eke out startling victories over the delusions and hallucinations, like a degree from Yale Law School and more than $2.1 million in book and movie contracts for his life story.
But today the disease seemed to have snatched its own brutal victory. Mr. Laudor was charged with the murder of his 37-year-old pregnant fiancee, Caroline Costello, a technology administrator at the Edison Project, the private firm that manages public schools. On Wednesday, her body, with more than 10 stab wounds in the back and neck, had been found in the kitchen of the apartment they shared on the banks of the Hudson in this suburban village, which had not seen a murder in 20 years. 
 A short time before the body was found, Mr. Laudor's mother, Ruth, concerned about a conversation she had had with her son, had called the police and asked them to check on the welfare of her son and Ms. Costello in the apartment.
Mr. Laudor, 35, was arrested at Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y., a place where, as a teen-ager, he had taken a summer program for gifted students. For reasons that were not clear, he fled to Cornell on Wednesday afternoon, driving Ms. Costello's black Honda to Binghamton and then catching the 10:15 P.M. Shortline bus to Ithaca. At Cornell, he flagged down a patrol car and told an officer that he had hurt his girlfriend and possibly killed her, said Simeon Moss, director of the Cornell News Service.
Taken into custody, he was alternately calm and agitated and, at one point, struck a Cornell police officer, who was treated at a local hospital.
This afternoon, Mr. Laudor, a tall, husky, bearded six-footer dressed in a blue Ithaca City Jail jumpsuit and bedroom slippers, was returned to the Hastings police station, next door to where he lived and visible from his balcony. There, he was formally charged with Ms. Costello's murder. He had no prior record for violence.
Friends spoke of two setbacks that seemed to weaken him in his fight against schizophrenia. In 1995, his father, Charles Laudor, an Adelphi economics professor who often talked him through the hallucinations and was a stabilizing influence in his life, died of prostate cancer. In recent months, the antipsychotic medications he had been taking no longer worked as well and doctors struggled futilely to find the right prescription. One friend said that in recent days he had stopped taking medication altogether.
"When I met him a year ago, the only way I would have known that something was wrong was that he spoke slowly," said another friend who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "Other than that he was unbelievably charismatic, unbelievably bright, someone you'd never forget. Over the last year he definitely deteriorated. When I left him at the end of April he seemed diminished."
As a result of his recurring mental illness, he was withdrawn and depressed and making little progress in writing the life story on which the lucrative movie was going to be based, friends said today. They said they believed that the pressure of writing, even as he was unable to land a job as a law professor, contributed to his decline.
"I thought the book project would be good," said Vera Hassner Sharav, director of an advocacy group for mentally ill patients who worked on a program with Mr. Laudor in 1995. "But what I didn't like was that he'd complain that he couldn't get out of bed in the morning. Writing, especially for someone with his condition, can be so lonely."
Advocates for the mentally ill tried today to ward off any public conclusions that people with schizophrenia needed to be feared.
Laurie Flynn, executive director of the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill in Washington, said that dramatic shifts in behavior can occur when people stop taking their medication.
There were signs that Mr. Laudor had reached a new and distinct crisis. On Wednesday, Ms. Costello, a wisp of a woman who typically worked 60 hours a week, told co-workers that she could not come in because of "a personal emergency," said her boss, Tom Boudrot, director of technology at the Edison Project.
Sometime in the morning or early afternoon, Mr. Laudor had also spoken by telephone to his mother, who lives in New Rochelle. Something in the conversation apparently disturbed Mrs. Laudor because at about 4:20 P.M., in what the police described as a distraught voice, she called the Hastings police station to let them know of her conversation with her son.
"The things being said may have been delusional and she asked us to check on their welfare," said Lieut. Vince Schiavone, executive officer of the village's Police Department, who spoke to the mother.
The police found the body and decided to go directly to the mother's New Rochelle home to inform her. Lieutenant Schiavone said that it was clear to the mother that it was her son who had killed Ms. Costello.
This afternoon, Ms. Costello's parents, William and Marilyn, flew in from Newton, Mass., where she grew up, to identify her body and talk to investigators.
Mr. Laudor's successes in the face of his schizophrenia were so striking that he was the subject of an article in The New York Times in 1995. The story told of a promising childhood in New Rochelle, where he was regarded as a genius so precocious that he was reading James Joyce's "Ulysses" in high school. With no apparent symptoms, he breezed through Yale in three years, graduating summa cum laude in 1984.
It was after college while working for a management consultant firm that he experienced his first brush with illness. He complained that his phones were tapped. Later, he began to hear bells in the night and to imagine that his room was in flames.
Randy Banner, a journalist who is a friend of the Laudor family, said that Michael's father would talk him down from his hallucinations, asking him, for example, to place his hands in the flame that he imagined.
His father helped him through Yale Law School, where he performed so brilliantly he was awarded a postdoctoral associateship. He also saw himself as a role model for the mentally ill, and in the Times interview expressed his displeasure with what he said were stereotypes of schizophrenics as violent. Two years ago, despite side effects from medication, he wrote a book proposal about his struggles. It won him a contract from Scribner that was worth more than $600,000 and a $1.5 million movie deal with Ron Howard's Imagine Entertainment.
Mr. Laudor and Ms. Costello, who was known as Carrie, had apparently met at Yale, where she received a bachelor's degree in literature.
"She was in love with him," Ms. Banner said. "She met Michael during his well period. Michael was the golden boy. He is handsome, kind, spiritual, a wonderful conversationalist, a wonderful sense of humor and he was destined for what everyone thought was greatness."
Friends said that Ms. Costello stuck with Mr. Laudor through his illness. After the windfall for the book and movie, they moved in together in Hastings. She agreed to marry him and began studying Judaism, Mr. Laudor's religion, with the intent of a possible conversion.
"She was a very 'up' person," Mr. Boudrot said. "I think it would take a person of that inner grain to look at a relationship that most people would say, 'Hey, this isn't for me,' and give it a fair shot. The eternal optimist. I think that's what most people would say about her."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Detective Sgt. Wayne Pietropaolo escorted Michael B. Laudor shortly before Mr. Laudor's arraignment yesterday in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. Mr. Laudor was charged with killing his pregnant fiancee, Caroline Costello. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times); Michael B. Laudor, 35, and his fiancee, Caroline Costello, 37, in a photograph the police found in the couple's apartment in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); POLICE FOUNDATION (59%); POLICE FOUNDATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); POLICE FOUNDATION (59%); POLICE FOUNDATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HASTINGS-ON-HUDSON (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MURDER (91%); MENTAL ILLNESS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); CANCER (77%); GIFTED EDUCATION (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); ARRESTS (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); MEN'S HEALTH (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%); PROSTATE CANCER (50%); PROSTATE DISEASE (50%); 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH; GROSS, JANE; LAUDOR, MICHAEL B; COSTELLO, CAROLINE MICHAEL B LAUDOR (96%); CAROLINE COSTELLO (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1998



468 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: An Administration Report Finds Urban Improvement, but Hardly Fat City

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 18

 BODY:
A study of American cities by the Clinton Administration says the strong national economy has left most of them in their best financial shape in decades.
But the report, "The State of the Cities 1998," also finds that urban centers are still suffering from chronic problems afflicting the poor -- unemployment, inadequate housing and substandard education -- that could grow worse over the next five years as hundreds of thousands of city residents move off welfare. 
 To help those people, as well as the low-income wage earners against whom they will be competing for jobs, the Administration has asked Congress to approve an array of new or expanded programs for the 1999 fiscal year, in what the White House calls "the most wide-ranging budget for cities in more than a decade."
Administration officials could provide no total spending figure today for their urban initiative. But the largest part of their request comes from the Department of Housing and Urban Development, which is seeking $1.8 billion beyond the appropriation of $24 billion it has received in each of the last five years.
"The success of the Clinton economy has meant real progress for America's cities," Andrew M. Cuomo, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, said in a statement. "The President's urban agenda is helping cities to continue to recover from years of decline and making them better places to live and work. This is a midterm report card with an A grade for cities, but there is still homework to be done."
Although Congress is projecting a budget surplus of as much as $100 billion for 1999, it will not be easy for the Administration to get money for new programs. Among other reasons, Republicans in both houses are eager to use some of the surplus to cut taxes.
One Congressional aide familiar with housing budget negotiations now under way predicted that Congress would most likely authorize new spending for some existing programs -- providing additional housing vouchers, for instance, to allow inner-city residents to live closer to jobs or transportation lines -- but that money for new programs would be harder to come by.
The Administration's report, which Mr. Cuomo is to present to the annual convention of the United States Conference of Mayors, this weekend in Reno, provides ample evidence that the country's economic growth has significantly improved conditions in cities of all sizes.
Among the major findings is a 10.4 percent increase in employment among urban residents during the last five years. And, the report says, of all new low-skilled jobs created from 1994 to 1995, 34 percent were in cities, compared with 13 percent from 1991 to 1994.
But the gains continue to pale beside job growth in suburbs, the report says, a disparity that reflects a domino effect of adverse urban circumstances. As urban problems like crime and poor schools steadily persuade many middle-class residents to leave for the suburbs, commercial investment follows, draining cities of their tax base.
The report contends that the people who are hurt most are the lowest-wage earners, who have fewer job opportunities and often no practical means of transportation to reach jobs in the suburbs. The report contends that over the next five years, their ranks will increase by 353,000 as many current welfare recipients join the search for work.
Citing a recent study of 74 urban areas by the Conference of Mayors, the Administration's report says that within five years, employers are likely to find at least two applicants for the same low-paying job. Some cities, like Cleveland, Newark and Providence, are projecting 10 or more.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: URBAN AREAS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY CITIES (93%); CITY LIFE (91%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); SCHOOL GRADE REPORTS (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); SUBURBS (71%); TAX LAW (70%); APPROVALS (69%); MAYORS (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JANOFSKY, MICHAEL ANDREW CUOMO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1998



469 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: The Japanese and Inertia

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 18

 BODY:
In a few weeks Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto will face nationwide elections as he presides over the worst recession in more than 50 years, a limp stock market and the highest unemployment rate since records began to be kept.
Yet experts overwhelmingly expect his governing Liberal Democratic Party to do very well. The latest polls show it with more than five times as much support as any other party. 
 Now Mr. Hashimoto is more likely than ever to do well, for President Clinton handed him a political gift on Wednesday by agreeing to a joint American-Japanese campaign to bolster the sagging yen. Whether the jawboning and billions of dollars in foreign-exchange intervention succeed in propping up the yen, they will almost certainly succeed in propping up Mr. Hashimoto.
Yet Mr. Hashimoto's relative popularity may be part of the problem.
The premise of Mr. Clinton's decision to go to Mr. Hashimoto's aid was that Japan would take, as Mr. Clinton put it, aggressive and bold steps that would justify a higher rate for the yen. But many analysts here say that the Japanese political process militates against fundamental change and that Mr. Hashimoto's relative popularity suggests that the public wants someone like him, a repairman for the old system rather than an architect for a new one.
To be sure, although Americans would like more, some repairs are still crucial. One that Japanese officials are focusing on would be for the banking system, and particularly the bad loans that overwhelm it. Page A6.
"Fundamentally it comes down to the fact that people in Japan generally don't think that things are so bad that they need to have fundamental change," the president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan, Glenn S. Fukushima, said. "They realize that there are difficulties, that they need to handle them, and they are prepared to make certain changes. But change will often result in disruption of the current system, and I think that is something that people want to avoid as much as possible."
All this raises puzzling questions about the Japanese political process. In most industrialized countries there is a built-in corrective mechanism when an economy veers off course. Disgruntled voters evict the old team and choose new leaders who promise to do things differently. Yet despite eight years of economic stagnation the Japanese political system has not responded in that way.
One common explanation is that Japan has established an elaborate series of safety nets, so that even in a recession no one feels deeply distressed. Ronald A. Morse, a professor of economics and business administration at Reitaku University near Tokyo, calls Japan "an air bag society," because people are so protected from the effects of recession.
"Everybody has jobs, everybody has health care, and nobody's out on the street," Professor Morse said. "Even companies that are losing money aren't laying people off."
Certainly Japan does not have the feel of a country in a severe downturn. There are very few homeless people, soup kitchens, bankruptcies or vacant buildings. Although there are some differences in measurements, the record unemployment rate in Japan is still 4.1 percent, less than the 4.3 rate in the United States.
An old saying defines a recession as when your neighbor is laid off. When you are laid off it is a depression. By those definitions, for the great majority of Japanese this is still not a recession.
The sliding yen had been a visible and humiliating signal of Japanese economic weakness. But for now the joint American-Japanese intervention may have arrested the slide. In early Asian trading on Friday, the yen was quoted at 137.30 to the dollar, compared to 146 before the intervention. The gulf in perceptions inside and outside Japanese on the seriousness of the economic situation here is difficult to exaggerate.
To Americans and many Asians these days it sometimes seems that Japan's economy has caught fire and is threatening to ignite all of Asia and, perhaps, the United States and Europe, as well. For those fearing a global economic conflagration, nothing is more infuriating than the sight of Mr. Hashimoto as he passively watches the flames and seeming to do little more than blithely insisting that the fire will eventually subside.
In a similar situation Nero fiddled, but not for eight years -- that is the kind of grumbling one hears from American officials these days.
To Japanese officials the foreign carping seems foolish and petulant. Some say the American Government is simply nervous about its own bubble economy and is looking for a scapegoat to blame when stock prices inevitably collapse. And most Japanese say the risks are exaggerated.
"The realities of Japan's economy are not as bad as the world thinks," said Jiro Ushio, chairman of the influential Japan Association of Corporate Executives.
Moreover, many Japanese insist that their country is seriously addressing the recession and the Asian crisis. They note that the Japanese Government has put in place a huge stimulus package, the biggest in the nation's history, and that the Government has contributed far more to Asian bailouts than the United States.
"To suggest that we might be oblivious is not, I think, well founded," said Sadaaki Numata, the chief spokesman for the Foreign Ministry.
Noting that Japan has worked out a series of measures to combat the recession, he added, "We will implement the measures as soon as possible and we do hope that there will be a recovery and that the markets will respond."
In any case, for all the bewilderment and anger at Japan's reluctance to do more to stimulate its economy, seen up close Mr. Hashimoto's behavior makes some sense and appears in keeping with the public mood. After all, he just celebrated the Liberal Democratic Party's latest victory, on Sunday in a parliamentary by-election.
That was the sixth consecutive victory in by-elections for the Liberal Democrats, and polls suggest that they will also do very well in elections for the upper house on July 12. The upper house is much less significant than the lower house, but the election will nonetheless be an important test of sentiment, and Mr. Hashimoto seems ready to pass with flying colors.
A poll this week in the Yomiuri newspaper, taken just before the intervention to support the yen, found that the support for Mr. Hashimoto's Government had dipped, from 33 to 30 percent. But perhaps more important, 29 percent of those interviewed said they still supported the Liberal Democrats, compared to 5.5 percent for the leading opposition group, the Democratic Party.
Professor Morse argues that Japan suffers from cronyism and structural economic problems quite similar to those of South Korea and Indonesia. Those countries were bailed out by the International Monetary Fund on the condition that they accept painful reorganizations.
But Japan has not collapsed in the way that South Korea or Indonesia did, and so Professor Morse said he believed that the political process would not lead to a fundamental overhaul of the economy.
"The I.M.F. should have come into Japan, but it didn't," he said. "Japan is too big for anyone to mess with."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto ending a news session yesterday in Tokyo. The public seems to want a leader to repair the old system. (Reuters)(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TRENDS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (62%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; HASHIMOTO, RYUTARO (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1998



470 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-17
 
Iraq Is Said to Smuggle Oil To Turkey, Violating Ban
Iraq is smuggling large volumes of oil into Turkey in violation of the United Nations sanctions against the Government of Saddam Hussein, United States and Turkish Government officials said. The officials said the Clinton Administration, aware that the smuggling benefits Kurds and Turks who are able to provide strategic help to the United States, had chosen to look the other way. A1
 
Richard Butler, the chief United Nations arms inspector for Iraq, said a plan for ending sanctions that he and the Iraqis agreed to last weekend would collapse if Baghdad withheld documents or other evidence, something they threatened to do even while the talks were in progress. A10 

Satellite Policy Defended
The Clinton Administration mounted its most detailed defense of its satellite export control policy, as three top officials said that China's military had not benefited from transfers of sensitive American technology and that safeguards were in place to prevent such leakage. A1
 
Chinese Losing Cheap Housing
China has formally spelled out its radical new housing policy, under which the hallowed right of workers to virtually cost-free apartments will end this year. Under the guidelines, most urban residents will either have to buy their homes or pay much higher rents. A8
 
Plans for Yen Recovery
Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto of Japan is working out the details of what the Government hopes will emerge as a landmark blueprint to clean up the nation's bad debts. Mr. Hashimoto pledged that the Government would "take drastic measures to resolve the bad-loan problem, which has been considerably dragging economic recovery." A6
 
Indonesia Officer Gets Post
Indonesia's new President, B. J. Habibie, has appointed as a senior military adviser Lieut. Gen. Sintong Panjaitan, a retired army general who was ordered by a United States court to pay millions of dollars in damages for his involvement in a 1991 massacre of about 270 people. He was sued while studying in Boston. A6
 
Kosovo Rebels Fight Back
Guerrillas of the Kosovo Liberation Army, bolstered by a huge infusion of weapons and fighters from Albania, have started to strike back after taking losses in their fight with the Yugoslav military, Western diplomats said. A3
 
Russia Seeks More From I.M.F.
The Russian Government said it would seek $10 billion to $15 billion in additional assistance from the International Monetary Fund. Russia has been negotiating with I.M.F. representatives for weeks over the conditions for additional aid. A5
 
A Minimum Wage for Britain
Britain's Labor Government announced plans to establish a national minimum wage for the first time in the nation's history. A16
 
NATIONAL A18-26
 
Columnist Asked to Resign Over Fabrications
A columnist at The Boston Globe fabricated people and quotations in four of her columns this year and the newspaper has asked for her resignation, the Globe announced. A18
 
Cities in Good Financial Health
A Clinton Administration study of American cities said that the strong national economy had left most in their best financial shape in decades. But the report also found that urban centers suffered from chronic problems afflicting the poor that could grow worse over the next five years as hundreds of thousands of city residents moved off welfare. A18
 
From Welfare to Jobs
The General Accounting Office said there had been sharp increases in the proportion of welfare recipients being placed in jobs since the overhaul of welfare laws two years ago. A22
 
Warning on Heart Drug
Doctors in Oregon reported that four patients who had switched from the heart medication Posicor to other drugs had gone into shock and died. The F.D.A. took Posicor off the market 10 days ago, and the drug's manufacturer said that since learning of the deaths it had cautioned doctors to wait seven days before giving certain drugs to patients who had discontinued Posicor. A19
 
New Tack on Smoking Bill
Speaker Newt Gingrich said that he would put forward a low-budget alternative to the tobacco bill shelved by the Senate. The measure would be tightly focused on discouraging teen-agers from smoking, he said. A24
 
Phone Strike in Puerto Rico
More than 6,000 telephone workers in Puerto Rico went on strike in an effort to stop the sale of a controlling stake of the government-owned Puerto Rico Telephone Company to a consortium led by GTE. A18
 
3 Die as Train Hits Truck
Three people were killed and five people were injured when a Chicago-bound commuter train struck a tractor-trailer that was stuck at a railroad crossing in Portage, Ind. A18
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-9
 
City Quietly Prepares For Germ Terrorism
New York City has quietly undertaken an ambitious effort to counter attacks carried out with deadly chemicals or germs, city officials said. They said that no specific threat of a germ or chemical attack had recently been detected. A1
 
H.I.V. Reporting Plan
The State Legislature, shortly before 2 this morning, passed a measure requiring that the names of H.I.V.-positive people be reported to the state and mandating that government health workers ask infected people to name sexual partners so that they could be notified. A1
 
City Turning to Private Schools
The city's public school system is planning to enroll thousands of 4-year-olds in private and parochial preschools for new pre-kindergarten classes established by the state. A1
 
Man Describes His Shooting
The squeegee man wounded by an off-duty police officer on Sunday said that he was shot despite his offer to remove the soap from the officer's windshield. B1
 
Livoti Transfer Was Urged
Three years before Officer Francis X. Livoti was accused in the choking death of Anthony Baez in 1994, his commander recommended his transfer because of brutality complaints against him, according to a deposition by the commander in a civil suit against the city. Mr. Livoti, who was dismissed last year, is being tried on a Federal charge of depriving Mr. Baez of his civil rights. B1
 
Police Settle Sex-Bias Suit
The Police Department will overhaul its system for investigating sexual harassment and discrimination complaints within the department, as part of a settlement of a lawsuit by the Federal Government. B3
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
WEEKEND E1-34; E35-50
 
OBITUARIES B11
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-18
 
Disney in Cyberspace
Walt Disney announced a $900 million deal to buy 43 percent of Infoseek, an Internet service that helps guide computer users to what they want on the Web and, in the process, exposes them to advertising. D1
 
Trade Deficit Expands
The Commerce Department said the trade deficit for April expanded to a new monthly high of $14.5 billion, well above the $13.3 billion projected by many economists and up sharply from $13.2 billion in March. D1
 
Ailing South Korean Companies
South Korea's Government decreed 55 troubled companies unviable, signaling their probable, though not certain, demise in an accelerated restructuring of the economy. D2
 
Texas Instruments-Micron Deal
Texas Instruments said it would eliminate of 3,500 jobs and sell its memory chip business to Micron Technology for about $610 million in stock, plus $190 million in debt. D2
 
Lyondell Buys ARCO Chemical
Lyondell Petrochemical agreed to buy ARCO Chemical from Atlantic Richfield for $5.6 billion in cash, a deal that would make Lyondell a major provider of chemicals used in plastics, detergents and paints. D3
 
Business Digest D1
 
EDITORIAL A28-29
 
Editorials: Reformers scare the Speaker; selling spy satellites to China; vigilantism and Megan's law; the diplomatic shuffle.
Columns: A. M. Rosenthal, Russell Baker.
 
Crossword E48
 
Weather B10
 
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: TURKEY (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); ALBANIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON GLOBE (50%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); ALBANIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES SMUGGLING (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ARMIES (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); REAL ESTATE (74%); EXPORT CONTROLS (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); DAMAGES (71%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); HISTORY (69%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (69%); RESIGNATIONS (62%); WRITERS (61%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (60%); CITIES (51%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1998



471 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 119 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
SOUTHERN SELLS STAKE IN BRITISH UTILITY TO PP&L

BYLINE: Bridge News 

 BODY:
Southern Energy Inc. has sold an additional 26 percent interest in its British-based SWEB Holdings, the parent company of South Western Electricity, for $170 million to PP&L Global. PP&L Global, a subsidiary of PP&L Resources, based in Allentown, Pa., initially purchased a 25 percent stake in SWEB Holdings in 1996. Yesterday's transaction will increase PP&L's economic interest in SWEB Holdings to 51 percent. Southern Energy will continue to hold a majority of the voting shares in SWEB Holdings and will retain a majority of the board, and SWEB's senior management team will remain in place. SWEB, based in Bristol, England, provides electricity to more than 1.3 million customers in southwestern England.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NRG (NYSE) (94%); PPL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS424720 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS) (94%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (94%); SIC5172 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS WHOLESALERS, EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (94%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); ENGLAND (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: SWEB HOLDINGS; SOUTHERN ENERGY INC; SOUTHERN WESTERN ELECTRICITY; PP&L GLOBAL NRG ENERGY INC (94%); PPL CORP (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SWEB HOLDINGS; SOUTHERN ENERGY INC; SOUTHERN WESTERN ELECTRICITY; PP&L GLOBAL

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ENGLAND (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES PARENT COMPANIES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1998



472 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: Better Job Benefits Mean Lower Wages

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Benefits Dwindle Along With Wages for the Unskilled" (front page, June 14): Mandating that employers provide a full range of benefits to low-skilled workers will merely widen the gap between high- and low-skilled workers -- employers will cut wages and eliminate low-skill jobs. Wages and benefits for low-skilled workers could be improved by decreasing their numbers -- through changes in our immigration policy. 
 Over the past three decades the increased number of low-skilled immigrants to the United States has helped depress wages and job benefits for all low-skilled workers. This has been encouraged by lax enforcement of immigration law and the distribution of immigrant visas primarily on the basis of a person's relation to a resident alien or United States citizen rather than his likely contribution to the economy.
 
BARRY R. CHISWICK
Chicago, June 15, 1998
 
The writer is a professor of economics at the University of Illinois at Chicago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; FRINGE BENEFITS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES WAGES & SALARIES (93%); IMMIGRATION (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); REFUGEES (69%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

PERSON: CHISWICK, BARRY R (PROF) MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1998



473 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: Better Job Benefits Mean Lower Wages

 BODY:

To the Editor:
William Finnegan (Op-Ed, June 12) recites a common error when he blames tax cuts of the 1970's and early 1980's for reduced public expenditures on young people. In fact, state, local and Federal revenues constitute approximately 40 percent of the United States gross domestic product, a post- World War II high. Since the end of the cold war, an increasing portion of those expenditures has been directed to social programs. 
 The problem is not the amount we spend but how we spend it. Medicare and Social Security eat up a disproportionate amount of government budgets. We should spend less on programs for the middle class and elderly and more on programs for young people, who are at the beginning of their lives.
 
ROBERT L. BIRNBAUM
Boston, June 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (56%); MEDICARE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); BUDGETS (88%); SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); COLD WAR (87%); MEDICARE (87%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (70%); WORLD WAR II (69%); 

PERSON: BIRNBAUM, ROBERT L; FINNEGAN, WILLIAM WILLIAM FINNEGAN (68%); OP-ED JUNE (68%); ROBERT L BIRNBAUM BOSTON (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1998



474 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Premier Promises A New Broom at the Banks

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 18

 BODY:
Japan's leading politicians are thrashing out the details of what the Government hopes will emerge as a landmark blueprint to clean up the nation's bad debts.
The details of the plan are being closely guarded, but the Prime Minister, Ryutaro Hashimoto, referred to it obliquely at a news conference today, pledging that the Government "will take drastic measures to resolve the bad-loan problem, which has been considerably dragging economic recovery." 
 And the blueprint is likely to be an important topic on Friday when the United States Deputy Treasury Secretary, Lawrence H. Summers, meets with Japanese Government officials and party leaders.
After playing down the bad-loan problem for years, the Government now acknowledges that clearing away the loans may be the single most important factor in building confidence overseas and in giving a lift to the economy.
The problem loans -- which have grown to more than $600 billion, more than the size of the entire Chinese economy -- have been a drag on the economy for years, but now the Government seems increasingly determined to clean up the mess over the next three years.
"An economic recovery and disposal of bad loans are go hand in hand," Mr. Hashimoto said at the news conference today. He suggested that he would call a special session of Parliament late next month, after elections for the upper house on July 12, apparently to turn the plan into law.
Some foreign investors are wary of new promises from the Government because they have been let down so many times. But other analysts and economists say that while enormous uncertainties remain, there are signs that the Government may finally be ready to implement the Total Plan, as it is being called here.
The changes would take time but they could result in a sounder banking sector, a more vibrant real estate market and a healthier economy overall.
"Over time, Hashimoto's commitment to do something is getting stronger and stronger," said Masaru Yoshitomi, chief economist at the Long-Term Credit Bank.
But Mr. Yoshitomi argues that up until now, only the politicians have broken from the pack to tackle the bad debt while the regulators and the banks themselves have shown enormous reluctance.
The Total Plan is being hammered out by 34 high-level Liberal Democrat politicians and bureaucrats, who will convene a major session next Tuesday to review a draft. The chairman is Okiharu Yasuoka, a Liberal Democrat member of the lower house.
"It is being done at a very top level," said a senior Government official. "Few people know the details."
The plan has been through many versions and is still changing, and about $17 billion has been set aside for it in the Government's $123 billion stimulus package. As described by Government officials, economists and bankers, the Total Plan focuses on the bad loans and on the properties that Japanese banks are stuck with because they were the collateral for the loans.
In the past, banks have often set aside reserves for questionable loans but they generally have not sold those properties or liquidated the bad loans. One result has been a huge drag on the property market and a continuing burden on the banks.
The Total Plan calls for measures to encourage the banks to sell the properties and remove both the loans and the collateral from their books. This may be a wrenching process, because the sale of so much real estate could drive property prices lower and the obligation to face up to the problems could force weak banks out of business. This could be another blow to confidence in the Japanese economy.
But supporters say that the plan at least offers a way out of the mess, even if it is a risky and laborious passage.
One of the most controversial proposals -- it is not yet part of the Government plan -- is to set up a "bridge bank" that would essentially absorb the business of failed banks. The bridge bank would take over the good loans and deposits of failed banks and continue lending to their clients in order to minimize the disruption in the financial system.
This would be the clearest break from the current system in which all banks, strong and weak, are pulled along together by the Government.
"We really need a bridge bank," said Mr. Yoshitomi, a fervent advocate of an expanded version of the Total Plan.
The Government already has a Resolution and Collection Bank, which can absorb failed institutions, but its activities are not comprehensive enough to deal fully with bankrupt banks.
Ryuji Konishi, an economic consultant and former banking executive who favors the idea, compares the bridge bank to a fishnet that catches only the fish too weak to swim away on their own.
"The strong fish will jump over the net and survive, and the shrimps and sardines will have to go into the net," he said. "Unless you have a net, you can't do anything."
Not surprisingly, the weak banks are extremely sensitive to this proposal because they do not want to be, in effect, taken over by the Government.
Earlier this year, the Government also put together a $221 billion bank bailout that would support depositors and help the banks rebuild their capital.
But the banks have drawn only 1.8 trillion yen. Weak banks are reluctant to ask for money for fear that such an admission of weakness would drive down their share prices.
Some foreign investors would like to see the Government put up even more than 30 trillion yen, either through a bridge bank or another rescue package.
"Now it's not regarded as enough," said an executive at a foreign asset-management company. He said Japan needed a bigger bailout in which the weak banks would go out of business once and for all. "Many people would like to see some of these banks go to the wall," he said.
Thus, some bankers say the bridge bank is crucial.
"This time they really seem serious and are taking appropriate action," said a senior bank officer at a large Japanese bank. "What are the implications? The Government is going to take action. Maybe the Government will close weak banks after it prepares some structure to take over" questionable assets.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE H STEIN (57%); LIBERAL DEMOCRAT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL DEMOCRAT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (50%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL; HASHIMOTO, RYUTARO (PRIME MIN) LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1998



475 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Jobless Rate Drops In New York City

 BODY:
New York City's unemployment rate continues to drop, according to statistics released yesterday by the State Department of Labor.
The unemployment rate fell to 7.7 percent in May, from 8.1 percent in April. The office of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said it was the city's lowest rate since January 1995. The figures still lag behind the statewide unemployment rate, 5.7 percent, and the national rate, 4.3 percent. 
 The Mayor's office said 2,900 jobs were created in May, with the largest numbers generated in sales and in business services, which include secretarial and clerk-related jobs.
The banking industry, however, lost 100 jobs and the communications and transportation fields lost about 500. Wall Street's securities business showed a slight rise of 300 jobs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); STATISTICS (90%); JOB CREATION (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); MAYORS (87%); EMPLOYMENT (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1998



476 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 3; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1649 words

HEADLINE: What to Read? Ask a Computer;
New Strategy for Selling Books Makes Many Experts Uneasy

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN; Samuel G. Freedman, a professor of journalism at Columbia University, is the author of three books, most recently "The Inheritance."

 BODY:
Clerking at a New Haven book shop one afternoon 15 years ago, a novelist named Kitty Florey watched two regular customers approach the display racks, their faces furrowed with consternation. "I get tired of these after a while," one said, indicating a stack of best sellers, "but I don't know what else to read." Ms. Florey bounded across the Oriental rugs to propose a few titles by Anne Tyler and Barbara Kingsolver. Her manager, just a pace behind, suggested Ms. Florey's own latest book.
On a recent morning in the TriBeCa offices of a software company called Muze, the same Kitty Florey typed into a computer the catalogue information and plot summary of "The Man in the Box," Thomas Moran's novel about an Austrian family that shelters a Jewish doctor from the Nazis. Then she listed the book under such categories as "caring and caretaking," "fugitives" and "Holocaust survivors." All the material became part of Muze's data base, which some 300 bookstores offer to customers. 
 Ms. Florey's evolution parallels American society's: from an old-fashioned, personal brand of taste-making to a high-tech variety made possible by what is known as agent software. This software, sometimes described with the more specific term "collaborative filtering," compiles information that consumers provide about their taste in the arts and past buying patterns and analyzes the data to recommend books, videos, films and CD's. It is used by major retailers like the on-line bookstore Amazon.com and the Columbia House music club. Microsoft recently paid $40 million to buy the agent-software company Firefly, and Amazon.com just leased Muze's software for its new on-line music store.
As such developments demonstrate, artificial intelligence is offering an alternative to -- or even a replacement for -- flesh-and-blood arbiters of culture. The consumer who decades ago took cues from a critic like Edmund Wilson or a mass-audience magazine like the original Life can now click on Muze or Firefly.
"All of us feel a little uncomfortable," says Ms. Florey, the senior fiction editor at Muze, "because we all come from a background of studying literature and believing great books are beyond categorization. At the same time, you feel like you're opening it up to people who wouldn't go down that path otherwise."
Ms. Florey's own divided feelings frame the larger debate. For the creators and buyers of agent software, it gives consumers a matchless tool for navigating through an overwhelming number of choices to find art they will cherish. For critics, including those conversant with computer technology, collaborative-filtering software threatens to take the idiosyncratic process of forming an esthetic and replace it with the soulless logic of code.
"People are losing their ability to really reason for themselves, to look at things for themselves," says Patricia Galvis Assmus, a fine-arts professor who directs the Center for Research in Art and Technology at the University of Massachusetts. "In one sense, collaborative filtering is not that different from a bibliography at the end of a scholarly report. And that's fine. The problem is that people rely on it solely and don't take the initiative beyond the software. In this country, people are so enthused with technology that browsing a library just isn't as attractive."
Dr. Assmus's vision does not persuade fellow scholars like David Thornburn, a professor of literature and director of the Communications Forum seminar series at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He has been pleased to click onto Amazon.com's Web site and find its Netperception software presenting him with book titles based on those he most recently bought.
"I don't feel as if cultural value is threatened by this software," Dr. Thornburn says. "It seems not to have a judging function but a consumer-advice function. I had bought 'Cold Mountain' for a gift, and the software was intelligent enough not to offer me every other best seller. It didn't recommend Tom Clancy. It recommended 'The God of Small Things,' " also a first novel of literary distinction.
"It made that distinction," he added. "It was accurate about the things I enjoy reading."
Agent software arose in the late 1980's from a mixture of commercial and cultural motives. John Hey, later one of the founders of the software company Likeminds, started out as an M.I.T. student and movie buff who wanted to be steered to films without having to learn plot details. Mr. Hey invented two forms of collaborative-filtering software, installed them in kiosks and sold the kiosks to video stores in the Cambridge area. The store's customers put in their ratings of films they rented, forming a reservoir of data that could be matched to the personal preferences entered by any user.
Muze developed a different approach. It began by leasing and digitizing printed catalogues of music and books. Then it hired people like Ms. Florey to cross-reference the entries by themes, categories, genres and subgenres. These range from such conventional terms as literary/avant-garde to those Muze has coined like galactic empires and space opera. Lately, the Muze staff has passionately debated whether to add the designation angst bunny for what Ms. Florey described as "young women in the Village with black clothes and lots of body piercings."
 
The Intelligence Is Not Artificial
Such discussions underscore the fact that the intelligence behind the software is not artificial; the raw material was provided by human beings, whether customers typing in their book preferences or editors in computer companies deciding how to categorize a particular book. What the software does, in computer jargon, is "find patterns in the noise" -- use mathematical formulas to determine which books or films or CD's had the greatest probability of matching either a consumer's stated preferences or actual record of purchases. Although not all retailers choose to do so, they can have the software adjusted to put extra emphasis on particular titles.
In whatever variation, collaborative-filtering software surged with the refinement of the Internet and the World Wide Web in the early 1990's. Likeminds, for instance, went on line for such clients as Columbia House, the cable network Cinemax and the Web site Moviecritic.com. What customers got was convenience in choosing a product; what retailers got was an identity and a marketing profile of each buyer.
Technological innovation, though, tells only half the story of the agent-software bonanza. The software entered the cultural marketplace just as the power of highbrow critics, general interest magazines and television networks unchallenged by cable was dissipating.
"One of the reasons for the mandarins and the shapers of opinion in the past is that there were limitations on the availability of information to people," says Stephen Kanzler, the president and chief executive officer of Likeminds. "Now the information is ubiquitous. You can look at the Louvre collection on the Net. The sifting of information and opinion is the problem. It's the old drinking-from-the-fire-hose problem. How do you sort through it? An agent can help a consumer get what he wants."
Ms. Florey of Muze is blunter. Speaking of the New Haven bookstore, she says: "At a place like the Foundry, we didn't need machines. The guy who owned it prided himself on knowing. At the superstores, there's nobody you can ask. They don't have booksellers who make their career out of loving books."
 
Brand Loyalty By Another Name
But precisely because agent software intends to cater to personal taste as a commercial strategy -- Likeminds' slogan is "Every individual a market" -- scholars like Carol Gigliotti of Ohio State University criticize it. "If you look at the Firefly Web site, you'll see this phrase, 'loyal and dynamic communities built on shared interest,' " says Dr. Gigliotti, a professor in the Advanced Computing Center for the Arts and Design and the project director for an on-line journal about computer ethics. "What these dynamic communities are about is brand loyalty. They're not about an idea, a value, a spiritual concept. They're about the market economy."
In cyberspace, where the prevailing political philosophy seems to be libertarian, the notion of a vast bazaar of information is populist. Even as a literary critic himself, Dr. Thornburn of M.I.T. contends that the pre-eminent cultural critics of mid-century America performed a disservice by creating "a false dichotomy between high culture and popular culture," stranding art forms like jazz. Agent software, in comparison, weights any and every opinion equally.
Which is part of what disturbs Dr. Gigliotti. "There's a big difference between knowledge and wisdom," she says. "And a great deal of what's on the Web has to do with information, which is confused with knowledge, which is confused with wisdom. Wisdom can understand knowledge and decipher information. We're allowing a very random, nonexperiential machine to say what we should like."
As the debate proceeds, Kitty Florey writes novels by night and enters data by day, her office shelves crowded with the London Review of Books, the Threepenny Review and a cheese sandwich on whole wheat. A few carrels over works Molly Siemers, the genre-fiction editor. As an English major at Vassar, Ms. Siemers wrote a thesis on the author Djuna Barnes's refusal to be categorized for her blackness or lesbianism.
On occasion, Ms. Florey and Ms. Siemers have paused in their categorizing duties to determine which books carried the most cross-references. The winner, as well as they can reckon, is "Tom Jones," without about 150. Proust also ranks high, as does "Middlemarch." And there are several unexpected competitors.
"I've given my own books dozens of themes," Ms. Florey says. "I'm shameless."

GRAPHIC: Photo: One way to select your summer reading material is to browse in a bookstore. The new way is to get some help from an on-line data base. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)(pg. B9)
 
Drawing (Vincent Kirsch)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (82%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (82%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (82%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE BOOKSTORES (91%); WRITERS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); INTELLIGENT AGENTS (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); LITERATURE (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); MUSIC STORES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); HOLOCAUST (73%); FILM (69%); MUSIC (63%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (63%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (62%); 

PERSON: FREEDMAN, SAMUEL G MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1998



477 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 4; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK;
TV News Magazines Hard, Medium and Lite

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN 

 BODY:
"CNN Newsstand," the new prime-time cable series, opened on a controversial note last week with allegations that the United States used nerve gas against American defectors during the Vietnam War. The network's chief military analyst, Maj. Gen. Perry Smith, retired, resigned in protest ("sleazy journalism" he called it) but the report prompted Defense Secretary William S. Cohen to order a fresh inquiry.
"CNN Newsstand" is the overall title for three hourlong weekly collaborations between the cable network and magazines in the Time-Warner empire. On Sundays, Time magazine, which carried the nerve-gas charges, is the partner from print; on Wednesdays, it's Fortune magazine and the beat is business; on Thursdays, it's Entertainment Weekly, and the beat is show business. 
 Time-Warner executives hope that this pooling of resources will lift CNN's ratings in slow periods when wars or the deaths of celebrities are not available. At least, it is hoped, the new entries will give CNN a leg up in the increasingly crowded news-magazine field. Whether you call it synergy or merger muscle, the new series is the best the company has come up with to hold onto some of the many viewers who flip channels after catching "Larry King Live."
Although the new business and entertainment programs -- plainly inspired by the popularity of other such shows -- are efficiently produced, with a mildly irreverent attitude toward the personalities they perforce celebrate, they do not promise to be the engines of success the network seeks. On first viewing, it is hard to see what they offer that is not already either in abundant supply elsewhere or not particularly worth supplying.
CNN's hope for making a mark among news fans resides in the Sunday night program. With two of the network's best-known personalities -- Bernard Shaw and Jeff Greenfield -- as anchors, it aspires to more weight and import than its companion entries.
Along with the main story about nerve gas, the premiere carried a segment on teen-age sex, a news magazine perennial. Particular attention for some reason was devoted to a Mormon community. There was nothing especially wrong with the report unless you were hoping for something surprising.
More provocative was a short final feature called "The Looking Glass," under the auspices of Mr. Greenfield, who has been occupying a prominent place as a commentator since moving to CNN some months ago. In this appearance, he chided his audience for hypocrisy for telling poll takers that they are sick of scandal and violence even as they tune into Jerry Springer and anything about the President's sex life instead of brooding over the tribulations of the Asian economy.
Mr. Greenfield is a leading proponent of one television school of how to treat Clintoniana. While others (see "Hardball" on CNBC) book assertive loudmouths to rattle their cages, the Greenfield school takes an introspective, above-the-commotion attitude. He draws rueful attention to being in a line of work that requires wheel-spinning, day after day, about who did or is doing what to whom in the latest celebrity melodrama, be it about O. J. Simpson, Diana, Princess of Wales, or Monica S. Lewinsky.
His good judgment or taste, as he would be quick to grant, can have no effect at all on coverage of such tempting tales, certainly not by his current employer. Yet there is something touching about the abashed concession by one of television's news stars that his tribe finds itself consigned to a journalistic netherworld, like tenors fated to sing "Pagliacci" on tour forever and ever.
The second edition of "Newsstand: CNN and Time" on Sunday led off with a report on the propensity of some N.B.A. athletes, millionaires all, for fathering illegitimate children and then failing to support them either financially or emotionally. From another report, we learned that the new drug of choice among youngsters is methamphetamine, street name "crank," which can produce symptoms of paranoia. And there was a brief epilogue of conflicting testimony on the nerve-gas story. With its combination of proven ingredients (money, sex, children, drugs) and its hard-edge reporting and soft-focus production, the program made a professional, if not spectacularly fresh package.
Although the Asian economy went unmentioned, a few minutes was given to the opinion, delivered by Walter Isaacson, managing editor of Time, that the recent nuclear tests by India and Pakistan were unsettling. His contribution seemed like an inexpensive gesture on behalf of Mr. Greenfield's campaign to acknowledge the existence of significant stories that are not natural news magazine audience grabbers.
In the same spirit, Mr. Shaw promised that "CNN Newsstand" would devote less time than the competition to the Clinton-Starr-Lewinsky operetta, a pledge that did not apply to his network. The next day and night found CNN on the case as usual; among the journalists assembled by "Larry King Live," that major merchandiser of celebrity chat, was CNN's senior analyst, Jeff Greenfield.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CNN NEWSSTAND (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CABLE NEWS NETWORK CABLE NEWS NETWORK INC (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: CABLE NEWS NETWORK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; REVIEWS TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); VIETNAM WAR (77%); CELEBRITIES (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (50%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER WILLIAM S COHEN (57%); LARRY KING (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1998



478 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: About New York;
Open-Air Sculpture With a ZIP Code

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ 

 BODY:
THE postman never rings twice when he gets to Ezra Shales's house on a half-empty strip of Beach 43d Street in Edgemere, Queens. A double take is more likely. There is no bell; nor for that matter, any doors, walls or people. Just a bright yellow mailbox set into the sandy dirt by the cracked sidewalk.
Mr. Shales has a house in name only, and even that detail won't be decided until later today during a housewarming party on the block. For weeks, Mr. Shales has culled dozens of postcards that have arrived at his lonely mailbox with suggested names for his "Nominal Home," a sculpture set in a weed-covered lot near the Far Rockaway boardwalk. 
 The home consists of bales of hay scattered on the narrow lot. Each bale was slathered with plaster and labeled BED, DOOR, TABLE and even DOG, all built to crumble through rain, heat and time. Mr. Shales wants people to reconsider their ideas about the changing faces and fortunes of the city. Although the postman has got used to it, most people who walk down this deserted street just off the concrete arches of the A train think the home is a work in progress.
"You put a mailbox up on a street with no house, and you get mail there," Mr. Shales said with wry satisfaction. "Still, I like it when people ask me what it's going to be. There's a refusal to believe what you see. It tells you what people think about work, art and land. And vacant lots."
There are lots of lots on this stretch of the Rockaway Peninsula, thanks to ideas the city had in the 1960's about urban renewal. Once home to bungalows and beachgoers, Edgemere and nearby Arverne became desolate after blocks were razed for homes that were never built. Recently, modest plans emerged to build affordable housing and shops and reclaim some of the hundreds of empty acres.
"Part of my awareness of the city comes from having read about archeology and reading things like Alfred Kazin's 'A Walker in the City,' " said Mr. Shales, a museum educator. "In the city you think about how it flows, how things are built and fall apart."
He plopped his sculpture on a lot that a friend of a friend had purchased years ago at a city auction. "They were lifelong New Yorkers who had always hoped it would come back," he said. "Beautiful beachfront property, you know."
He cleared away some of the land, purchased some hay from a man who also supplies the race tracks, and printed 10,000 picture postcards of the sculpture, which he gave to friends, teachers and anybody else he could find. In fact, he considers the postcards and their suggested names as artistically important as the sculpture itself. Among the recommendations are: Housilly, Baleful and No Mo Ho.
"I'm making something here that people might not come all the way out here to see," he said. "You go to flea markets, though, and you see people buying and selling old postcards. It's a funny memento of a place they aren't even sure exists anymore."
MR. SHALES knows that some people deride conceptual art as being understood only by the black turtleneck crowd. Others look at public art, if at all, as high-priced corporate street furniture.
"Having this outside here, it's not about degrees, paper degrees or provenance," he said. "No pretensions. It just has a kind of street value. That's what people talk about when they talk about something having value. In economic terms."
Maybe that's why many people who pass by his house always ask if he is going to put a fence around it. For protection, you know. Like John Fillyaw, who stopped on the street a few days ago on the way to visit his girlfriend.
"What is that?" Mr. Fillyaw asked. "What is it going to be?"
"It already is," Mr. Shales replied.
"Just like that?" Mr. Fillyaw said. "You're putting up no fence? Nothing?"
Mr. Fillyaw tilted his head back as he beheld the lot. He liked it. He liked the idea of things changing. Of course, he has long heard talk about all kinds of changes promised for this neighborhood.
"I think years ago they were talking about bringing casinos out here," he said. "That would have been good for New York. Now Jersey's got it all."
As an electrician, he savored the thought of all the work that would have brought his way. All that money. But, ever the optimist, he ventured a suggestion.
"You need lights out here," he said to Mr. Shales. "I can put up some garden lights. All low voltage."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ezra Shales, museum educator and artist, at "Nominal Home," in Far Rockaway, Queens. The sculpture receives mail. (William Lopez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ART SCULPTURE (90%); BEACHES (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (62%); ARCHAEOLOGY (60%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID; SHALES, EZRA EZRA SHALES (96%); JOHN FILLYAW (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1998



479 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
YEN REBOUNDS. The yen rallied ahead of a weekend Group of Seven meeting in Tokyo to address Japan's economic problems. In New York, the dollar fell to 136.10 yen from 137.83, and fell 8.62 yen, or 5.9 percent, for the week.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since December 1996. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN GROUP OF SEVEN (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN GROUP OF SEVEN (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1998



480 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Japan Denies It Intends to Rescue Two Banks

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 19

 BODY:
As a high-level United States delegation pressed Japanese leaders today to strengthen the economy and tackle bad loan problems, news reports appeared that the Government might rescue two major banks by merging them.
A report by Kyodo News Service, citing unidentified Government officials, said that the authorities were considering a merger of the Long-Term Credit Bank and Nippon Credit Bank, two of the nation's largest -- and weakest -- financial institutions. The Tokyo Stock Exchange suspended trading in shares of the banks as it tried to confirm the reports. 
 Both banks denied the reports by late afternoon and the Government said it would refrain from supporting feeble banks.
The Government "intends to let bad banks collapse, and it does not have any intention of bailing them out," said Kanezo Muraoka, the Government's Chief Cabinet Secretary, as quoted by Kyodo News.
In meetings today with Lawrence H. Summers, the United States Deputy Treasury Secretary, Japanese leaders stressed Japan's efforts to clear away the bad debt and invigorate the economy, while Mr. Summers called on Japan to continue fiscal stimulus, including tax cuts. Koichi Kato, secretary general of the Liberal Democratic Party, told Mr. Summers that the Liberal Democrats would decide before elections in July on whether to create a new "bridge bank" that would help absorb the business of failed institutions. Such a bank would be a major step toward solving the bad debt problem, Kyodo News quoted Mr. Kato as saying.
Today, the financial markets seemed to welcome the reports of a possible merger between Long-Term Credit and Nippon Credit as a sign that mergers may be in the works to accelerate the disposal of bad loans and nudge along greater consolidation in the banking industry.
Investors have been worried for the last few weeks that Long-Term Credit could be facing difficulty in paying some routine debts.
Early this morning, the stock price of Long-Term Credit fell to an all-time low, plunging to 95 yen, down 31 yen from Thursday's close. After the reports, the stock bounced back to 120 yen before trading was suspended. Shares of Nippon Credit rose 10 yen, to 135 yen.
The share prices of both banks have taken a beating over the last couple of weeks, and investors have not forgotten the financial turmoil last November, when four financial institutions collapsed.
Reports of a potential merger between Long-Term Credit and Nippon Credit have been circulating in the market over the last couple of weeks. Long-Term Credit seems not to have been as active a borrower as it usually is in the money market, according to a banker at a large Japanese bank.
"They are not participating in the market," said the banker, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "But we cannot say why." Long-Term Credit said through a spokesman that the bank's day-to-day money operations had been normal.
Nippon Credit is also under scrutiny amid its efforts to restructure 200 billion yen worth of debt. More than a year ago, the Government rescued the bank with an injection of new capital and issuance of new debt.
In the last few weeks, leaders in Japan's governing Liberal Democratic Party have mentioned the possibility that another large bank could fail. A week ago, Taku Yamasaki, the party's top policy maker, tried to assure the markets that there would not be a failure any time soon.
Japan's banks are burdened by more than $600 billion in bad debts, and Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto has said that cleaning them up is a top Government priority.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 8304 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: LONG-TERM CREDIT BANK OF JAPAN; NIPPON CREDIT BANK LTD BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); AOZORA BANK LTD (57%); LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG-TERM CREDIT BANK OF JAPAN; NIPPON CREDIT BANK LTD LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MERGERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANK FAILURES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL LAWRENCE SUMMERS (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1998



481 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Politics or No, Brazil Plans to Sell Telebras

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, June 16

 BODY:
Amid fierce election-year politics, the Brazilian Government has announced plans to go ahead late next month with the breakup and sale of Telebras, the giant Brazilian telephone holding company.
The Government has placed a minimum $11.7 billion price tag on its controlling share of the 12 Telebras-affiliated companies scheduled to be auctioned off on July 29. The sale would constitute the largest privatization in Latin America to date. 
 "It's a real opportunity and one of the few that exist right now," said John Mein, president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Sao Paulo.
Opposition politicians are not so enthusiastic, however, and are threatening legal action to block or revoke the sale.
In preparing for the auction of Telebras, the Government broke the holding company into three fixed phone systems, eight cellular concessions and one long-distance company, and created an independent regulatory agency, Anatel, that will monitor the telecommunications industry.
The Telebras sale is expected to be followed by a second auction of so-called mirror licenses for competing companies. In 2002, the industry is to open to even broader competition.
Luiz Carlos Mendonca de Barros, Brazil's Communications Minister, has been gauging investor interest in New York and Europe. So far, he told reporters traveling with him, Telefonica de Espana and France Telecom have shown a keen interest in the sale. Among United States companies, Sprint, MCI, BellSouth and Airtouch are expected to submit bids.
The minimum price the Government has set for the sale is well below the $25 billion to $35 billion that Sergio Motta, Mr. Mendonca de Barros's predecessor, who died two months ago, had repeatedly said the privatization would fetch. Mr. Mendonca de Barros said the price had dropped largely because the Government opted to break up Telebras and sell licenses to create unlimited competition. The subsequent sale of those licenses could bring in an additional $8.7 billion by 2001, Government officials say.
In addition, the economic turbulence in Asia has made investors somewhat more skittish about emerging markets generally.
"A year ago, the whole sentiment toward Brazil and emerging markets was much more positive than today," said Rodrigo Fiais, an investment adviser at Banco Itacu here. "We're in a much more volatile period of investment decision making."
Direct investment in Brazil, however, has remained strong, Mr. Fiais said. Though the Brazilian stock market has dropped steeply in the last eight months, economists predict that the country will draw an average of $2 billion a month in direct foreign investment this year.
And interest in the telecommunications sector has been steadily building. With just 10 percent of the country's 160 million people owning telephones, Brazil is considered to be fairly bursting with pent-up demand for phone service.
Purificacion Carpinteyro, senior counsel and director for international regulatory affairs at MCI, said the company was specifically interested in Brazil's long-distance service. "MCI is not a short-term investor," she said in a telephone interview from Washington. "Brazil has a good future and a stable economy."
The sale is scheduled to take place three months before the first round of presidential elections in October. And the unexpectedly low floor price has turned the auction into a volatile election issue.
The American deposiory receipts of Telebras, which are traded on the New York Stock Exchange, are a convenient vehicle for investors to bet on the Brazilian economy, and their price has fallen sharply in recent months over uncertainty about emerging markets in general and about the Brazilian elections. Telebras A.D.R.'s closed Friday at $107.9375, down about 36 percent from their high of $169.25 last July.
 Also on Friday, Telefonica de Espana and a Brazilian media group agreed to pay 1.18 billion reais, or $1.02 billion, to increase their stake in Companhia Riograndense de Telecomunicacoes, known as CRT, one of four Brazilian telecommunications companies that do not belong to the state-owned Telebras system. The price was higher than analysts had expected.
In Brazil, the opposition candidate, Luiz Inacio (Lula) da Silva of the left-of-center Workers' Party, has called for an audit of the process by which the Telebras minimum price was set, and has vowed to scrutinize any contracts the Government awards. Mr. da Silva's vice-presidential running mate, Lionel Brizola, has vowed to revoke any privatization of the phone companies.
Mr. da Silva is arguing that the sale should be put off until market conditions improve, and he has accused the Government of going ahead with the sale "possibly to create a slush fund for the election campaign." President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, in response, threatened to sue his rival for slander, while his Communications Minister likened the criticism of privatization to Nazi propaganda.
Though the remarks against privatization might ordinarily be dismissed as mere election-year grandstanding, polls show Mr. da Silva running in a dead heat against President Cardoso, who is the first Brazilian President ever to run for re-election.
Economists and executives said the threat of legal challenges to the privatization could deter investors and drive down bids. "It'll scare them away," said Alexandre Barros, an economic consultant based in Brasilia. "Except for one wise contrarian who'll clean up."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FTE (PAR) (93%); FTE (NYSE) (93%); FTE (BIT) (93%); TELB3 (BOVESPA) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (54%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

COMPANY: TELEBRAS (CO) FRANCE TELECOM SA (93%); TELECOMUNICACOES BRASILEIRAS SA (TELEBRAS) (92%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TELEBRAS (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; PRIVATIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AUCTIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); POLITICS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (87%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (66%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN; MEIN, JOHN MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1998



482 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Expand the Javits Center

 BODY:
New York City's attraction as a site for trade shows and conventions has been one of the key elements in its economic growth. That makes it hard to understand why Mayor Rudolph Giuliani seems so indifferent to the fact that the Jacob Javits Convention Center is too small to accommodate the nation's largest trade shows, and growing less competitive every year. New York has long since fallen out of the top 10 when it comes to available exhibition space. It will drop further as other cities expand their facilities.
New York State, which runs the Javits Center, has been promoting a plan that would double its 760,000 square feet of exhibition space by creating a vast complex stretching all the way to 42d Street from the center's present site on the western end of 38th Street. Tying the center to 42d Street would pull the booming development of the Times Square area all the way to the Hudson River, while connecting the convention business to the city's entertainment hub. Larry Silverstein, a developer who owns part of the property the state would need, was apparently willing to swap the land for the right to build a hotel or apartment tower over the Javits expansion. But Mr. Silverstein recently said he was tired of waiting for the city to commit, and was going ahead with other plans for the property. 
 It would be amazing if Mr. Giuliani swallowed the state proposal whole. It would cost an estimated $700 million, and the state wants the city to pick up part of the tab. But rather than demanding changes or proposing alternatives, the city seems simply to be turning away -- as if the convention center were a state project for Syracuse rather than Manhattan. There have been no public comments, no objections and apparently no private negotiations.
Mr. Giuliani's critics contend that the Mayor does not want any other West Side program to compete with possible plans for a new Yankee Stadium, although the two structures would be on different sites. If so, Mr. Giuliani's strategy is all wrong. New York City must both keep the Yankees and pursue the economic development projects it needs to keep the economy growing. To suggest that both things are not possible would hurt, rather than help, the Mayor's cause. Building a world-class convention center would create jobs and assure the city's ability to attract major trade shows and exhibitions into the next century. The Mayor must cooperate with the state in reaching that goal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: JAVITS, JACOB K, CONVENTION CENTER (NYC) JAVITS CENTER (67%); JACOB JAVITS CONVENTION CENTER (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: JAVITS, JACOB K, CONVENTION CENTER (NYC) JAVITS CENTER (67%); JACOB JAVITS CONVENTION CENTER (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS TRADE SHOWS (91%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1998



483 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
'Triple Witching' and Japan Worries Send Dow Lower

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

 BODY:
Stock prices fell again yesterday as Wall Street closed out a volatile week just the way it began: with waves of large-scale selling.
 Shares tumbled across the board, hitting blue-chip issues the hardest, in an extremely heavy trading session that saw the Dow Jones industrial average drop 100.14 points, or 1.14 percent, to close at 8,712.87.
Wall Street analysts said yesterday's selloff was a result of trading related to "triple witching," the day when options on stocks, stock indexes and futures expire, which often creates market havoc. 
 But in a week filled with more serious concerns about economic distress in Japan -- and the possibility that such distress might set off a deeper economic slump in Asia -- it was no surprise that share prices slumped.
While prices were weak through much of the day, shares slid even more on news service reports that Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin had suggested that despite the United States intervention in buying the Japanese yen earlier this week, Japan's economic recovery might be long and difficult.
Those remarks helped lift bond prices yesterday, sending the yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury issue, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, down to 5.66 percent from 5.70 percent a day earlier. The dollar also rallied against the yen as optimism about Japan's recovery soured.
"It's been a tough week," said Alfred Goldman, a market strategist with A. G. Edwards Inc. in St. Louis. "The big question is: How bad is the economic malaise in Asia?"
The last few weeks have not inspired optimism. Japan confirmed a week ago that it had fallen into a recession. And on Monday, the yen fell to an eight-year low against the dollar, heightening fears that the weakening yen could undermine other Asian currencies. That day, the Dow plummeted 207 points, or 2.3 percent, in one of the sharpest selloffs of the year. But on Wednesday , when the United States joined Japan in buying yen, the Dow rebounded 164.17 points, or 1.89 percent.
As part of the coordinated effort, the Japanese Government agreed to resolve its banking crisis, and take steps to right its economy. But if it cannot, investors are worried that American corporate profits could be weakened.
In the meantime, United States markets continue to be volatile. The Dow, which reached a record 9,211.84 in mid-April, slid as low at 8,627.93 on Monday, a drop of 7 percent from its peak.
Blue chips, however, have fared much better than smaller-company issues, which are generally flat, according to the Russell 2000 index of small-company stocks, which is up just three-tenths of 1 percent.
Even with the turbulence, though, both the Dow and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index are up more than 10 percent this year, and so is the Nasdaq composite index, where some big technology stocks trade. Indeed, yesterday the Nasdaq stock market gained nearly five-tenths of 1 percent in one of the few signs of strength in the market.
What Wall Street is worried about is a sharp slowdown in profit growth in the first quarter, and signs of more trouble ahead. Asia-related earnings warnings have already come from I.B.M., Hewlett-Packard, Boeing and Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing.
Abby Joseph Cohen, the widely followed investment strategist at Goldman, Sachs & Company, however, remains as bullish as ever, contending that the "supertanker" United States economy is strong enough to withstand the effects of turbulence in Asia.
In a telephone conference this week, she told investors that "even if Asia stays extremely weak," the economy and the market will remain strong, and she said the Dow could easily reach 9,300 by year's end.

GRAPHIC: Charts show the Dow Jones Industrial Average (from January 1997 through January 1998)(Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) along with a look at stocks with large price percentage gains and losses and stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AGE (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); INTEREST RATES (59%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1998



484 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: French Premier Says West Faces Quandary on Kosovo

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 19

 BODY:
Prime Minister Lionel Jospin of France said today that the West faced a serious quandary in the southern Serb province of Kosovo by trying to stop the violence there without appearing to side with the ethnic Albanians who are fighting for independence.
While France insists that any NATO action in or over Kosovo be authorized by the United Nations Security Council -- an authorization the Russians threaten to veto -- the world cannot ignore turmoil in Kosovo that threatens a regional explosion, Mr. Jospin said. 
 "We don't want a possible veto in the United Nations to be an excuse to do nothing in the face of massacres," Mr. Jospin told reporters today during his first visit to the United States as Prime Minister. "But the Russians face a dilemma, too," he added, which he said he discussed with President Clinton in their Oval Office meeting on Thursday.
"In the end, it's difficult for Russia to use its veto," Mr. Jospin said, because the Kremlin would have to choose between the good relations it needs with the West for its financial stability and its older, more rhetorical solidarity with its fellow Slavs in Yugoslavia.
"But there is a lot of convincing we have to do," he said, urging the Yugoslav President, Slobodan Milosevic, "to come to his senses" and stop building support for the rebels of the Kosovo Liberation Army through his attacks on innocent civilians.
"Milosevic's attitude is irrational," Mr. Jospin said. "The international community accepts Kosovo as part of the Yugoslav federation, so the solution is autonomy. There is a crazy evolution of events and I hope Milosevic will come to his senses." Mr. Milosevic withdrew autonomy from the province in 1989.
Mr. Jospin, a Socialist, was elected a year ago in a major defeat for the conservative French President, Jacques Chirac.
The benefits of economic prosperity must be shared, he said today, as must the pain of economic adjustment, like the transition France is undergoing in its effort to adapt its state-dominated economy to the demands of global competition.
Although Mr. Chirac is ultimately responsible for France's foreign policy, there is a sharing of power between the President and Prime Minister, and Mr. Jospin has received first-class treatment from the Clinton Administration. In addition to meeting with Mr. Clinton, he has also met with the Vice President, and the Secretaries of State, Defense and Treasury.
Mr. Jospin, whose approval rating in France has never fallen below 50 percent, is a likely presidential candidate in 2002, and the Clinton Administration wants to get to know him better, officials said.
Mr. Jospin and Mr. Clinton together attended the opening of a new French-American business council intended to promote trade and investment.
In return, Mr. Jospin has been preaching a new period of global partnership with the United States and an end to the backbiting that marked the end of Mr. Clinton's first term. The French Foreign Minister at that time, Herve de Charette, and Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher rubbed each other the wrong way over issues ranging from Africa to the Middle East.
While their successors, Hubert Vedrine and Madeleine K. Albright, have had their differences -- over American sanctions on Iran, for instance, and over Iraq -- both have worked hard to emphasize common goals. Ms. Albright goes out of her way to speak the French she learned in a Swiss school, and Mr. Vedrine praises her at every occasion.
Mr. Jospin, for his part, insisted on speaking a vigorous, clear English, and his various toasts and speeches have praised the longstanding alliance between France and the United States and the increasing understanding in America of European integration and transformation.
Bringing a clearer idea of France to the United States was one of his prime goals, he said today. "Do not be misled by caricatures that would have you believe France to be so burdened by its singularities and faults as to be incapable of adjusting to the world now emerging," he said at the National Press Club. "France is in reality far removed from the gloomy picture some people paint."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton and Prime Minister Lionel Jospin of France took a stroll on the White House grounds. Mr. Jospin is visiting the United States for the first time since he became Prime Minister. (J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (97%); SERBIA (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (93%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (50%); AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (50%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (50%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (54%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (54%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); FRANCE; ALBANIA; RUSSIA; FRANCE (97%); SERBIA (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); VETO (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; JOSPIN, LIONEL (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (92%); JACQUES CHIRAC (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1998



485 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: NEW RULES SOUGHT FOR CONTRACTORS

BYLINE: By SELWYN RAAB 

 BODY:
Having declared victory in campaigns against corruption at garbage-carting companies and in the Fulton Fish Market, the Giuliani administration now has its sights on another target: New York City's giant $24 billion construction industry.
In a proposal to be submitted Monday to the City Council, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani will ask for the power to determine through licensing regulations which companies are fit to work on public or private construction projects in the city. Contractors could be denied licenses if they were found to "lack good character, honesty and integrity" -- a broad standard that includes criminality, ties to organized crime, tax delinquency and a record of poor workmanship. 
 If enacted, the legislation is expected to have far-reaching effects on a huge industry with more than 9,000 companies and 90,000 workers who are responsible for projects ranging from the erection of skyscrapers to modest renovations in apartment buildings.
Administration officials said yesterday they were proposing the licensing procedure because they believe that persistent corruption within the industry has elevated the cost of construction in the city. Industry officials said they had not seen the Mayor's plan and declined comment.
The centerpiece of the proposal is a five-member New York City Construction Commission, appointed by the Mayor, with broad regulatory and investigative powers. Several large cities and scores of states, including New Jersey and Connecticut, have limited forms of regulation, but none as extensive as the administration proposes for New York City.
Under current laws, the city has virtually no licensing controls over companies that do private construction work. A contractor is required only to obtain a permit from the Buildings Department certifying that its plans comply with the city's zoning and building codes.
The city, however, can bar a construction company from obtaining municipal contracts on grounds that the company is considered professionally unqualified or that its officials lack integrity -- for example, if they have financial ties to organized-crime figures.
Administration officials say that abuses are still rife in the industry despite numerous law enforcement crackdowns over the last 20 years against mobsters, dishonest contractors, corrupt union officials and city inspectors who took bribes to overlook violations. According to the officials, the costs of construction in the city are 35 percent above the national average and they attribute most of the inflated prices to bid-rigging and other corrupt practices. Most prosecutors have favored licensing as a deterrent against organized crime and other corruption.
The bill also takes aim at contractors with poor safety records. Officials cited the deaths of two pedestrians this year who were struck by falling bricks, and the extensive problems caused last year by crumbling walls in a midtown office building, as evidence of the problem.
"This bill is about accountability," Randy M. Mastro, the Deputy Mayor for Operations, said in an interview yesterday. "It is also about higher standards and personal and professional integrity in an industry that has been plagued by corruption and safety problems in the recent past and over many decades."
Mr. Mastro said he felt the city's proposal is on firm legal footing since similar mechanisms for regulating the waste-carting industry and the Fulton Fish Market have survived legal challenges.
Mayor Giuliani has credited the tough licensing policies for eliminating Mafia influence in the businesses, for increasing competition and for sharply lowering private garbage-removal costs and the wholesale prices of seafood.
The past initiatives of the Mayor, a Republican, were swiftly approved with strong support from Peter F. Vallone, a Democrat who is the Council's Speaker and majority leader.
But Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Vallone are now locked in an acrimonious budget dispute and Mr. Vallone's support for the construction-industry bill was not evident yesterday. In a terse statement, he said that the Mayor's office had not consulted him about the bill and that he was unaware of its contents.
"In the end, what we want is a bill that goes after corrupt businesses and does not hurt honest business people," Mr. Vallone said.
By seeking to regulate construction companies, the administration will be tackling a politically more powerful and affluent industry than trash haulers and fish merchants, who opposed the attempts to monitor their businesses and investigate their backgrounds.
The heads of construction-industry trade associations said they knew that a regulatory bill was being prepared but they declined to comment until they could study its language.
But some industry leaders, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the proposal would likely be seen by some in the business as costly intrusions in enterprises that are vital to the city's economic health.
The trade association officials said corruption and the influence of organized crime was not pervasive and that construction prices in the city were elevated by labor costs and by congestion that delays deliveries of equipment and supplies.
Under the Mayor's proposal, the licensing commission would have the following powers:
*To conduct background investigations and the fingerprinting of the principal officers and investors of companies applying for licenses.
*To examine the financial and tax records of company officials and investors.
*To deny licenses to companies affiliated with organized-crime figures or who employ subcontracting companies that the commission finds unfit for licenses.
*To demand as a condition of licensing that a company hire an independent auditor and monitor approved by the commission to oversee the company and to guarantee its integrity and fitness to operate in the city.
Company officials who violate commission regulations would be subject to misdemeanor charges and fines of up to $10,000 and six months in jail.
The proposal mandates that the commission phase in the licensing by beginning with the 400 to 500 major contractors that have obtained at least $3 million in contracts in the city in the last year.
In the mid-1980's, Mr. Giuliani, as the United States Attorney for the Southern District, and Mr. Mastro, as one of his top prosecutors, were involved in the conviction of more than 30 Mafia leaders and associates on racketeering charges involving multimillion-dollar construction contracts.
"Prosecutions alone have not solved the problem," Mr. Mastro said. "As part of a long-term strategy, comprehensive regulatory reform is needed to end the hidden 'mob taxes,' and the end results will benefit the public and businesses through lower building costs and rents in the city."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY CONSTRUCTION COMMISSION (60%); CITY COUNCIL (55%); FULTON FISH MARKET (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY CONSTRUCTION COMMISSION (60%); CITY COUNCIL (55%); FULTON FISH MARKET (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LICENSES; ORGANIZED CRIME; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) CONSTRUCTION (91%); CORRUPTION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); BRIBERY (78%); INSPECTIONS (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ZONING (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); CRIMINAL LAW (76%); LICENSES & PERMITS (76%); CRIME STATISTICS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (72%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); INTERVIEWS (60%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (57%); 

PERSON: RAAB, SELWYN; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1998



486 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-5
 
Colombia Agrees to Test Herbicide for Drug Control
Colombia has agreed to a United States demand to test a chemical to kill coca crops, even though the manufacturer has warned against its use there. The Environmental Protection Agency says the chemical, tebuthiuron, can poison ground water, and Colombian officials fear it will spoil land where peasants could grow food. A1
 
Clinton Urged to Meet Dissident
A group of 55 democracy advocates from China has called on President Clinton to meet with a prominent Beijing dissident during his visit to China next week. There was no immediate response from the White House, but diplomats said it was extremely unlikely that Mr. Clinton would do so. A3 

Hindus Attacked in Kashmir
Gunmen killed 25 Hindu men at wedding parties in Kashmir in one of the worst attacks since an insurgency began nine years ago in the region claimed by both India and Pakistan. It was the third time in six months that Hindu civilians were singled out by gunmen, whom Indian officials identified as Muslim guerrillas. A3
 
An I.M.F. Rebuff to Russia
The International Monetary Fund put Russia on notice that it did not plan to provide the $10 billion to $15 billion in additional assistance that the Kremlin had requested. The Russian Government, meanwhile, issued data indicating that 1998 was likely to be a year of economic stagnation or gradual decline. A4
 
Swiss Banks Make an Offer
Switzerland's three biggest commercial banks made a public offer of $600 million to settle claims from Holocaust victims who asserted that their families' assets were stolen. Jewish leaders immediately rejected the offer as "humiliating" and said that negotiations had broken down. A4
 
Pope Visits Austria
Pope John Paul II arrived in Austria on a mission to grapple with two of the most troubling problems of his papacy in the Western world -- bitter divisions within the ranks of the Church, and the alienation and indifference of the prosperous society around it. A4
 
Jospin Cautious on Kosovo
Lionel Jospin, left, making his first visit to the United States as Prime Minister of France, said that the West faced a serious quandary by trying to stop violence in the Serbian province of Kosovo without appearing to side with ethnic Albanians fighting for independence. He added that the attitude of President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia was "irrational" and hoped he would "come to his senses." A5
 
Tension Over Cyprus Reignited
Greece and Turkey are at odds again over the divided island of Cyprus, with Greek planes landing on the island and Turkish planes flying overhead in response. The latest quarrel began on Tuesday, when Greek military planes landed at a Cypriot airfield. A5
 
NATIONAL A6-9, 12
 
Campaign Finance Bill Survives Test in the House
A majority of the House, including 65 Republicans, voted to protect a bipartisan bill on overhauling the campaign finance law from the first Republican leadership effort to water it down by amending it. A1
 
Early Doubts on Fund-Raiser
The Democratic National Committee's finance director has said in a deposition that in March 1995 he raised the possibility that Johhny Chung, who pleaded guilty to campaign-related fraud charges last March, was a conduit for illegal money from China. A1
 
Action on Changing the I.R.S.
Congress moved closer to final passage of legislation that would overhaul the I.R.S., as House and Senate negotiators resolved many differences in the details of their bills. A8
 
Church Effort Against Guns
The top policy-making body of the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) has passed a resolution calling on the denomination's 2.6 million members to begin removing handguns and assault weapons from their homes. A1
 
Violence and Sex in Media
The nation's Roman Catholic bishops issued an appeal to the entertainment industry and the Government to reduce the public portrayal of sex and excessive violence. A9
 
Final Advice From Dr. Spock
The late Dr. Benjamin Spock, writing in the seventh edition of his book "Baby and Child Care," advised people to adopt a vegetarian diet devoid of dairy products after age 2. A1
 
Insurers Back Away on Viagra
Some of the nation's biggest health insurers have decided not to pay for Viagra, the new male impotence drug, under their prescription drug plans because of the cost. They said that providing the recommended 6 to 12 pills per month would add hundreds of millions of dollars to their annual expenses. A6
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-5
 
Exploited Deaf Mexicans Can Stay in the U.S.
The 49 deaf Mexican men and women whose ordeal as virtual slaves in Queens shocked New York and drew national attention last year will be allowed to stay in the United States, Federal officials said. A1
 
Last-Minute Action in Albany
The State Legislature passed a bill that would overhaul school board elections in New York City, replacing paper ballots with voting machines and simplifying a system of weighted voting. In their rush to adjourn their annual session, lawmakers also adopted measures that would require trucks to be inspected for excessive emissions and that would speed the creation of a park along the Hudson River in Manhattan. They also agreed to set a stricter cap on property tax increases for homeowners in New York City. B1
 
Many advocates for people with H.I.V. criticized the Legislature's passage of a bill requiring that the names of infected people be reported to the state and mandating that government workers contact the sexual partners of those people. B2
 
Integrity in Contracting
The Giuliani administration plans to ask the City Council for the power to determine through licensing regulations which construction companies are fit to work in the city. A1
 
Livoti Prosecution Rests
The Government rested its case in the Federal civil rights trial of Francis X. Livoti, the former New York City police officer accused in the 1994 choking death of Anthony Baez. B3
 
SPORTS C1-10
 
OBITUARIES D16
 
Carlos Castaneda
The writer whose best-selling explorations of mystical and pharmacological frontiers helped to define the psychological landscape of the 1960's was believed to be 72. He died two months ago, but associates disclosed the death only this week. D16
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-15
 
Buffett Buys General Re
Warren E. Buffett will add to his vast financial empire by buying General Re, the largest United States insurance company that specializes in covering the risks of other insurers, for $21.7 billion in stock. D1
 
Worldcom-MCI Concessions
European antitrust regulators were said to have tentatively approved Worldcom's $37 billion takeover of MCI Communications after the two companies agreed to concessions involving the sale of MCI's Internet holdings. D1
 
Brother vs. Brothers
A Federal jury in Topeka, Kan., decided that William Koch, one of the nation's richest men, and a group of his relatives were owed nothing by his brothers Charles and David Koch, who almost wholly own Koch Industries, a $35 billion oil conglomerate. D1
 
Business Digest D1
 
ARTS & IDEAS B7-14
 
EDITORIAL A10-11
 
Editorials: The underachieving Legislature; time for action in Japan; expand the Javits Center; Tina Rosenberg on women's rights.
Columns: Frank Rich, Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Bridge B10
 
Weather C7
 
Crossword B12

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CYPRUS (93%); KOSOVO (92%); ASIA (92%); CHINA (92%); TURKEY (92%); INDIA (92%); GREECE (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); FRANCE (79%); ALBANIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); AUSTRIA (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (77%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CYPRUS (93%); KOSOVO (92%); ASIA (92%); CHINA (92%); TURKEY (92%); INDIA (92%); GREECE (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); FRANCE (79%); ALBANIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); AUSTRIA (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); KASHMIR (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); BEIJING, CHINA (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HERBICIDES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HOLOCAUST (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); RELIGION (74%); FARM LABOR (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (64%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (60%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1998



487 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2329 words

HEADLINE: Miami Wrestling With Corruption of Officials

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: MIAMI

 BODY:
Bribery. Kickbacks. Voter fraud. Cover-up. Miami is engulfed in a series of high-profile investigations of public corruption so pervasive that it is often mentioned in the same breath as the New York of Tammany Hall and Chicago in the heyday of the Daley Democratic machine.
So far, a Miami city manager and a city commissioner have gone to prison for obstruction of justice and bribery, and two county commissioners have had to step down, one pleading no contest to a charge of lying in financial disclosure forms and the other removed by the governor to stand trial on charges of bribery and money laundering. 
 In March, a mayoral election was thrown out because of rampant voter fraud, which included votes cast by dead people. In May, a Miami city commissioner was charged with covering up that fraud. A third Miami city commissioner has been under investigation for accepting a questionable loan from the Port of Miami, and the port director has been charged with conspiring to steal more than $1 million in port money for personal use, including a house, and political contributions, including a $120,000 donation to the Democratic National Committee in 1994 that is now under review.
The Miami-Dade County state attorney's office estimates that in the last five years it has charged at least 270 public employees, including police officers, for crimes ranging from falsifying records to ripping off drug dealers. Between 1986 and 1995, according to the United States Justice Department, South Florida was among the 10 leaders in Federal prosecutions of public officials, along with New York, Chicago, Los Angeles and the District of Columbia.
But if the charges here are similar to those in other big-city scandals, interviews over the past few weeks with a wide range of Miamians indicate that corruption festered here because of a combination of home-grown traits: opportunity resulting from fast growth, allegiances created by ethnic divisions and politics, and lagging scrutiny as Miami's high crime rate and drug smuggling drew most of the attention of law enforcement agencies and the press.
"The corruption problem went unchecked for so long it became a way of life," said Mark P. Schnapp, head of the United States Attorney's corruption unit here from 1985 to 1987 and now a private defense lawyer.
Some officials here argue that the recent cases do not show Miami politicians to be more corrupt than those in other big cities, only that more of them are getting caught now. The Miami-Dade County state attorney's office did not have a separate public corruption unit until 1995; it now has nine lawyers. State Attorney Katherine Fernandez-Rundle said a drop in violent crime had freed up investigative resources. And Thomas E. Scott, the United States Attorney, whose office focused on drugs as South Florida became the port of entry and headquarters for Colombian cocaine traffickers in the 1980's and 1990's, said public outrage about crooked politicians prompted him to double his corruption unit to 12 lawyers.
The publisher of The Miami Herald, David Lawrence Jr., said the newspaper had increased its coverage of corruption in response to the number of cases and community interest. "From time to time we paid enormous attention to this, but this is the first time in my nine years here that people from all segments in the community are saying, 'Enough of this,' " he said.
The causes of the corruption are another matter.
Many public officials here blame a government they say has not evolved fast enough to provide the checks and balances needed to serve a metropolis of more than 2 million people that began to boom only about 30 years ago, making the rise of Miami-Dade County, the urban area to which the city of Miami belongs, relatively new.
Maurice Ferre, a former Miami city mayor and county commissioner who has lived here for 46 years, says governing in both the county and the city is still largely left to executive administrators who are appointed rather than elected. This structure was created as part of a national anti-corruption movement and was intended to bring professionalism to government. In many cities, the structure has proved the least corrupt form of government, civic watchdog groups say. But Mr. Ferre contends that in large areas with ethnic factions it leaves the elected officials who appoint the city and county managers -- the mayors and commissioners -- hungry for ways to gain more influence, and less accountable for oversight.
For example, "the airport budget in 1996 was passed in 45 seconds," Mr. Ferre said. "Here's a multimillion-dollar operation, it's the single most important operation in the county, and we pass the budget without discussion. Does that lend itself to a lot of hanky-panky? You bet."
 
An Economy Tied To the Government
Miami is filled with opportunities for public corruption. With a county budget of $4.2 billion, a booming airport and seaport and a need for new infrastructure like sewage lines to keep pace with population, Miami is an area where much of the economy flows through government, a flow that appears as a common thread in the corruption scandals.
James Burke, a Miami-Dade County commissioner indicted in January on Federal bribery and money-laundering charges, for instance, is accused of accepting an initial payment of $50,000 from a San Francisco company trying to get some of the county's bond business, which pays for new construction. Carmen J. Lunetta, director of the Port of Miami for 18 years, is accused of conspiring to divert port money for a house and other personal expenses through most of the 1990's as he built the seaport into one of the largest in the country.
When Mr. Lunetta, who like Mr. Burke has pleaded not guilty to the charges, resigned a year ago, some county commissioners acknowledged that he had seemed so successful that they did not feel the need to scrutinize his management of the port. But Mr. Lunetta appears to have pleased commissioners in other ways. The Federal indictment against him charges that one commissioner received an $85,000 personal loan from port money and that another received $1,000 for an election campaign.
There are 13 county commissioners and 5 city commissioners. Their part-time status and low pay -- $6,000 a year -- seem to invite candidates looking for side benefits, many officials and political experts say. And with political campaigns getting more and more expensive over the last decade, the candidates are increasingly beholden to the special interests and political machines that helped get them elected, others note.
Law enforcement officials say there is a glaring need for stricter curbs on lobbyists. Special interests play such a big role here that when Armando Vidal sought the county manager's post in 1994, he met not only with the commissioners who would vote on the selection but with contractors and lobbyists who do business with the county. An important endorsement came from the Cuban exile leader Jorge Mas Canosa, the powerful head of the Cuban American National Foundation who before his death in November was widely regarded as kingmaker in Miami politics.
Mr. Vidal said he met with Mr. Mas "to get his thoughts as a concerned citizen," according to sworn testimony given in 1995 in a state investigation of county commissioners suspected of violating the "sunshine law" requiring governing bodies to meet publicly. Asked what Mr. Mas's thoughts were, Mr. Vidal, who also held meetings with Mr. Mas's son, Jorge Mas Jr., said, "That he was going to talk to or had talked to some of the applicants and that he didn't know who really had support from the commission and that he basically wanted a Cuban person for management."
The company Mr. Mas owned, Church and Tower, which is still controlled by his family, is the subject of a state investigation for a $58 million paving contract that county officials contend overcharged taxpayers by millions. The company has blamed subcontractors and the county inspectors who supervised the work for any overcharges.
Mr. Vidal has not been charged with any crime but was dismissed in March by the Miami-Dade County Mayor, Alex Penelas, for failure to supervise county operations. Mr. Vidal in turn has gone to prosecutors charging that Mr. Penelas dismissed him for his refusal to hire the mayor's friends.
 
A County Divided By Ethnic Loyalties
The cozy relationships among government players here are fueled by ethnic allegiances in a county population that is 55 percent Hispanic, 25 percent white and 21 percent black. And those same loyalties seem to have led to a high tolerance among voters for transgressions.
Bruce Kaplan, the white county commissioner who misstated his income on financial disclosure forms, had been comfortably re-elected with Jewish and Hispanic support despite such widely publicized lapses as seeking to become a Latin America representative for American Airlines while sitting on the county commission's aviation committee. (He was turned down.) A Miami city commissioner, Humberto Hernandez, a Cuban-American, won re-election in November while under indictment on Federal charges of mortgage fraud and money laundering unrelated to city business. (Mr. Hernandez was removed from office for a second time after state prosecutors charged him in May with helping cover up voter fraud.)
When charges of corruption have involved black and Hispanic politicians, cries of racism are often heard in the ethnic press, with supporters often giving the accused officials the benefit of the doubt. Among black voters who have already lost two commissioners to criminal charges, word that a third black official was under Federal investigation spurred a call for prayers and fasting in black churches and a campaign to raise money for his legal defense.
The official, City Commissioner Arthur E. Teele Jr., was being investigated for receiving $85,000 from the Port of Miami while he sat on the county commission in 1993. No charges have been filed, and Mr. Teele has said he did not know the origin of the money.
"We've been a powerless people for a long time," said the Rev. John F. White of the Greater Bethel AME Church here. "He has done a credible job as a public official and we want to make sure that continues to happen. At this point we believe what he says."
Miami's problems have been described as the growing pains of a place that has endured massive foreign migration, introduced district elections and other political changes in recent years and is too young to have the civic pride and established institutions that could serve as counterbalancing forces to a frontier mentality.
Don Morrison, executive director of the Local Government Institute, a 10-year-old group that provides ethics training and consulting to municipalities, says most local governments manage to stay clean, usually because of safeguards like ethics officers who investigate complaints, stringent campaign finance laws and close monitoring of government contracts. Some of those checks have just begun here.
 
Corruption Follows A Financial Crisis
Corruption has had at a cost. In the city of Miami, the instability of losing elected officials and administrators to criminal convictions or political turmoil comes at a time when the city is still recovering from a financial crisis discovered after the first corruption scandal in 1996 claimed the city manager, the finance director and a city commissioner in one sweep.
County officials say mistrust has left voters with little appetite to raise taxes for services. And there is also fear that all the bad publicity may hamper the area's ability to attract investment and jobs. A government that businesses have often criticized as slow and bureaucratic seems even more paralyzed. The criminal investigations, says Tito Riera-Gomez, regional director of corporate and external affairs for BellSouth Telecommunications, "have subliminally affected people's willingness to move forward with things. They fear they might do something that could be interpreted as being improper."
The investigations have led to some changes. Today, for example, there are tighter absentee ballot rules to prevent fraud, and a former chief of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in Miami, Paul R. Philip, serves as the "corruption czar."
Voters have also signaled in two recent elections that there is only so much they can take. An indicted former county commissioner, James Burke, was defeated when he tried to recapture his seat in March. And the wife of another former county commissioner, Bruce Kaplan, lost when she ran for his seat on June 2 after he agreed not to run as part of his plea agreement with the state attorney.
Things may get worse before they get better. Bruno Barreiro, the former state legislator who won Mr. Kaplan's seat, was six days late in filing his campaign finance report, in violation of state law, and he faced a $3,000 fine after less than a week in office. He blamed the mail. And while each criminal case has spurred others, Mr. Scott, the United States attorney here, says that aggressive law enforcement "has not translated to the cooperation level we want" from potential witnesses.
Recently, the web of criminal investigations snared the head of the Miami legislative delegation in Tallahassee, State Senator Alberto Gutman. Mr. Gutman faces Federal charges of Medicare fraud, money laundering and payment of kickbacks to doctors in relation to what prosecutors say was his role as hidden owner of several home health care companies.
For residents of Miami, it adds up to a disappointment that some say is comparable to the recent decimation of their championship baseball team.
"There's a certain dispiriting consequence to all this," said Max Castro, a sociologist at the University of Miami. "People see their government as a deception, a fraud as big as the Marlins."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carmen J. Lunetta, director of the Port of Miami for 18 years, has been accused of conspiring to steal $1 million of port money. Commissioner Humberto Hernandez outside Federal court in Miami, where he was charged with covering up voter fraud. His wife, Esther, and lawyer, Jose Quinon, accompanied him as a supporter shook his hand. (Photographs by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (55%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (98%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (98%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI (FLA); UNITED STATES (98%); FLORIDA, USA (98%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (98%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA BRIBERY (93%); CORRUPTION (91%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); ELECTION FRAUD (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); POLITICS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (86%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTIES (78%); ETHICS (78%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); TRENDS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); SCANDALS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LAWYERS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); SMUGGLING (75%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (74%); MONEY LAUNDERING (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (73%); VIOLENT CRIME (71%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (69%); MAYORS (69%); COCAINE (64%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA MAURICE FERRE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1998



488 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Swiss Banks Make Offer On Nazi Loot

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 19

 BODY:
Switzerland's three biggest commercial banks today offered $600 million to settle claims from Holocaust victims who have charged that their families' assets were stolen.
Leaders of Jewish groups immediately rejected the offer as "humiliating," as one put it, and said negotiations had broken down. 
 The banks stopped short of saying the offer was final, but in a statement they insisted they "would not entertain unfounded and excessive demands for payments above this amount."
In addition, they said, they would pay any amounts that an independent auditing group determined were left in long-dormant bank accounts. The group is led by Paul A. Volcker, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve.
While that figure is a mystery, some Jewish groups believe that it will total hundreds of millions of dollars, once inflation since the 1940's is taken into account.
The breakdown in talks that led to today's announcement raises the likelihood that top officials in states and cities around the country -- led by Alan G. Hevesi, the New York City Comptroller -- could declare a boycott of the Swiss-owned commercial banks and their Wall Street subsidiaries when they meet on July 1.
But despite the disagreements, both sides have an incentive to settle.
Jewish groups fear that if a class action lawsuit against the banks in New York proceeds in Federal court, the issue will not be settled for years, after many of the aging survivors of the Holocaust have died.
The banks, for their part, desperately want to avoid a suit in American courts, which would involve a lengthy discovery process and thus force into the public arena long-secret documents detailing the banks' dealings with the Nazis.
The Swiss Government is opposed to a large settlement because it knows that the next target of suits will be the Swiss central bank, which received more than 80 percent of Nazi Germany's stolen gold.
So far the central bank has not been named in the legal actions, but representatives of the Jewish groups and plaintiffs in the class action suits agreed today to file that action next week.
The president of the Swiss central bank, Hans Meyer, has repeatedly insisted that United States courts have no jurisdiction over the central bank of another nation. But he added that the bank, which reportedly keeps more than $24 billion in gold in the United States, was "provisionally" prepared in case Jewish groups tried to freeze Swiss assets here while the cases were being resolved.
Today's action came after weeks of disclosures about the negotiations. The disclosures infuriated the banks and the State Department, which has quietly been trying to keep the talks going. The banks apparently hope to force a settlement by making their offer public.
But the co-chairman of the World Jewish Restitution Organization, Avraham Burg, called the bank's offer "very humiliating."
"Our people were killed because we were perceived and accused of being the rich man of Europe," he told a television station in Jerusalem. "We will be robbed as rich people and paid as poor beggars."
The banks' offer today involves what has become known as the rough-justice fund. As the name suggests, it would provide rough compensation to Holocaust victims and their heirs around the world, "rough" because records of the stolen assets -- money, art and other goods stolen by the Nazis and later sent to Switzerland -- have been lost.
The offer today includes $70 million that the banks have already contributed to a humanitarian fund, to help indigent survivors in their last years. So the new money on the table today is actually $530 million.
That translates into about $53 million in 1945 dollars. But it appears that the amounts deposited in the banks by the Nazis, much of it stolen, were far higher than that.
"This is like sticking up a bank for $200,000, using the money, and then offering to pay a $50,000 settlement," said Rabbi Marvin Hier, the dean of the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Los Angeles.
The banks, however, insist that the offer is largely symbolic because it is impossible to come up with anything approaching a real accounting of how much loot moved through Swiss banks.
"By all legitimate criteria this is a fair offer," the three banks -- Credit Suisse, the Swiss Bank Corporation and Union Bank of Switzerland -- said in their statement. "The banks view this offer to be at the upper limit of what can be justified, based on the facts and circumstances."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (94%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND; UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (94%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND OTHER MINORITIES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; JEWS JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); HOLOCAUST (90%); LITIGATION (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); CLASS ACTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PRETRIAL DISCOVERY (70%); JURISDICTION (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1998



489 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: Pushed by U.S., Colombia Plans New Chemical Attack on Coca

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, June 19

 BODY:
Bowing to demands from Washington, the Government has agreed to test a chemical to kill coca crops, even though the manufacturer has publicly warned against its use in Colombia.
In the United States, the herbicide, tebuthiuron, is used mostly to control weeds on railroad beds and under high-voltage lines far from food crops and people. 
 The Environmental Protection Agency requires a warning label on the chemical that says it can contaminate ground water, something Colombian environmental officials fear could prevent peasants from growing food where coca once grew.
United States anti-drug officials have decided to concentrate more heavily on treating illegal drug crops with chemicals, particularly in parts of southern Colombia under the control of leftist guerrillas.
The trend comes at the expense of other measures intended to control drug smuggling, a recent investigation by the United States Government concluded.
American and Colombian police officials say a granular herbicide will be more effective in the battle to control drugs. For four years, they have used a liquid -- glysophate -- which has destroyed only 30 percent of the plants sprayed.
Despite the effort, the amount of coca in Colombia has yet to decline, because eradication has prompted farmers to move and plant coca elsewhere. Last year, Colombia became the world's leading coca grower.
The American and Colombian authorities also say tebuthiuron offers greater protection for the pilots who are destroying the coca. Guerrillas have fired on low-flying planes spraying liquid herbicide in the early morning, when winds are calm and temperatures are lower. But tebuthiuron pellets can be dropped from higher altitudes in virtually any weather, making pilots less vulnerable to ground fire, the police said.
Washington has lobbied governments in the Andean region of South America to accept tebuthiuron for more than a decade, even though the chemical's manufacturer, Dow Agrosciences, a subsidiary of the Dow Chemical Company, strongly opposes its use in Colombia.
"Tebuthiuron is not labeled for use on any crops in Colombia, and it is our desire that the product not be used for coca eradication," the company said in a statement.
Tebuthiuron granules, sold commercially as Spike 20P, should be used "carefully and in controlled situations," Dow cautioned, because "it can be very risky in situations where terrain has slopes, rainfall is significant, desirable plants are nearby and application is made under less than ideal circumstances."
The warning is a rough description of conditions in Colombia's coca growing regions. Dow, which faced years of lawsuits and public protest over the use of its Agent Orange defoliant during the Vietnam War, said that if approached, it would refuse to sell tebuthiuron for use in Colombia. But American officials note that Dow's patent on the chemical has expired, allowing others to make it.
Critics in Colombia, including Environment Minister Eduardo Verano, say the health effects of tebuthiuron on farming areas are unknown and its use will only increase deforestation by pushing coca growers deeper into forest.
"We need to reconsider the benefits of the chemical war," Mr. Verano said. "The more you fumigate, the more the farmers plant. If you fumigate one hectare, they'll grow coca on two more. How else do you explain the figures?"
American officials, backed by the Colombian police, maintain that the benefits outweigh the environmental risks. The liquid herbicide used now, at a cost of millions of dollars to the United States, has mostly been washed away in the heavy rainfall of the Amazon, said Luis Eduardo Parra, the Colombian anti-drug squad's environmental auditor.
The United States Ambassador to Colombia, Curtis Kamman, said, "For a net environmental positive effect, getting rid of coca is the best course for Colombia."
Research in Hawaii, Panama and Peru by the United States Agriculture Department concluded that tebuthiuron would persist in Colombian soil for less than a year.
Where once the United States concentrated on arresting drug barons, smashing their organizations and seizing their wealth, the new strategy involves destroying crops and stopping boats that may be carrying drugs or chemicals needed to make cocaine from the coca.
In March the acting Assistant Secretary of State for international narcotics and law enforcement affairs, R. Rand Beers, outlined a plan to increase the use of chemicals in the southern provinces of Caqueta and Putumayo. He asked Congress to pump $21 million more into the $30 million anti-drug budget for Colombia this year.
Mr. Beers said drug traffickers had made a strategic decision to grow coca in southern Colombia because of the success the United States had achieved in blocking Peruvian drug planes that flew raw coca paste to Colombia, where it was refined into cocaine. The United States must seize the opportunity to prevent Colombian-grown coca from taking its place, he told Congress.
But United States intelligence analysts say that these statements exaggerate the success in intercepting drug planes and that coca base is still reaching Colombia from Bolivia and Peru. According to United States Government figures, 78 percent of the cocaine leaving Colombia is made from coca grown elsewhere.
The General Accounting Office concluded in February that the greater emphasis on wiping out the coca and intercepting drugs in Colombia was ill-planned and shortchanged other anti-drug programs.
While destroying coca crops in rebel-held areas is a subject of heated debate here, one point is not in dispute. The new strategy draws the Colombian military into the war on drugs while focusing United States attention on the main concern of the Colombian military: its longstanding war with leftist rebels.
The growing strength of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, Latin America's oldest and strongest insurgent group, has become a serious concern in Washington.
Colombian officials say a turning point in their estimation of the rebels' strength occurred two years ago, when coca farmers in southern Colombia battled security forces over Government efforts to ration cement and gasoline, which are used to make coca paste.
The incidents were taken as a barometer of the growers' potential support for the rebels.
"The FARC is their party, their benefactor," said a United States intelligence analyst. "The kind of thing you want to do is go after the rebels' base of support."
But Col. Leonardo Gallego, anti-drug chief of the Colombian National Police, denied that increased fumigation was part of any plan to strike at the guerrillas.
The primary objective is destroying coca and restoring the environment destroyed through coca farming, Colonel Gallego said. "Whatever other goals are achieved through these operations is completely secondary," he said, "and would be solely the result of any ties between guerrillas and growers."
A member of the rebel group's international commission, who goes by the nom de guerre Leonardo Garcia, vowed that intensive eradication in the group's strongholds would lead to open warfare. United States intelligence analysts estimate that the group collects upward of $100 million a year in commissions from the drug business, but Mr. Garcia said the rebels supported the growers out of political necessity alone.
He acknowledged that the guerrillas collected commissions from the drug trade but said they also did so from other sectors of the economy, including banana and coffee growers.
"The campesino has the right to defend himself and to defend the only thing he has to survive on -- his plot of land," Mr. Garcia said. "People themselves go in search of weapons. So what can we do? We're going to fight."
Mr. Parra, of the police anti-drug squad, argues that the damage that occurs when peasants clear rain forest and mountain areas to grow coca and opium poppies far outweighs whatever harm tebuthiuron may represent.
But Mr. Verano, the Environment Minister, argues that the solution may be worse than the problem and suggests that the United States should control the export of excessive amounts of chemicals like ether, acetone, cement and gasoline.
It takes about 155,000 tons of those materials to process coca in Colombia, he said, but less than 6 percent of that amount was seized by the Colombian police last year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Colombian police plane sprayed a liquid herbicide recently on an area where coca is grown. A switch to a more powerful chemical is planned. (Associated Press)(pg. A5)
 
Graph: "A CLOSER LOOK: Crop Busting"
While the U.S. has been fumigating Colombian coca crops since 1994, cultivation continues to rise as farmers plant their crops elsewhere. Graph shows total acres of Colombian coca crops and number of acres fumigated, from 1992 through 1997. (Source: Drug Enforcement Administration)(pg. A5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (84%); DOW (NYSE) (84%); DOW (LSE) (84%); 4850 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); 

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (73%); 

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO DOW CHEMICAL CO (84%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DOW CHEMICAL CO US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; COCA (PLANT); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TEBUTHIURON (HERBICIDE); DEFOLIANTS AND HERBICIDES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); HERBICIDES (90%); COCAINE (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (86%); PESTICIDE MFG (78%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (78%); DRUG CROP ERADICATION (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); PRODUCT LABELING (76%); SMUGGLING (75%); DRUG POLICY (75%); WATER POLLUTION (73%); FARM LABOR (73%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS MFG (73%); LITIGATION (70%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (70%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); VIETNAM WAR (60%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1998



490 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: From Arms Proliferation to Protocol, Clinton Crams to Learn About China

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 19

 BODY:
Among the learned volumes and fat briefing books on China piled by President Clinton's bedside to prepare him for his trip next week is a videocassette of "The Gate of Heavenly Peace," a gripping three-hour documentary about the Tiananmen Square demonstrations of June 1989.
There are many lessons in the film, which takes a cold-eyed look at the weeks of pro-democracy protests and the June 4 massacre that brought them to a sudden end. 
 Perhaps the most profound lesson is expressed by a teacher who warned his students before the protests about the tactics of the demonstrators, knowing that the Government would not tolerate usurpation of China's most sacred public place. Progress toward a more open and tolerant society in China would come only gradually, the professor said, and with much pain.
"History is this kind of process," he told the film makers, Carma Hinton and Richard Gordon. "There's no way to sort things out neatly."
This is the heart of the message that the President's advisers have been pressing on Mr. Clinton as they subject him to a crash course on China's culture, its recent history and the fragile state of United States-China relations. Do not ask too much, nor expect too much, from a single visit, they advise. It is but one step on a long journey.
The Presidential seminar has been unusually compressed, with much of the serious work yet to be done as Mr. Clinton and his huge entourage prepare to depart for China on Wednesday. The trip, originally set for late fall, was moved up to reward China for perceived progress on human rights and to put Mr. Clinton on display on the international stage as a distraction from domestic personal and political difficulties.
The preparation of the President is being conducted chiefly by his national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, assisted by numerous specialists from throughout the Government, think tanks and academia.
In recent weeks Mr. Berger's office has been deluged with solicited and unsolicited advice from Congress, interest groups, business organizations and China experts.
One overwhelmed senior White House adviser doing preparatory work said he receives 40 phone messages and 40 faxes a day but answers only the most urgent. "We're engaged in heavy triage here," the aide said.
In addition to the contributions from outsiders, the White House has received a torrent of background papers from the State, Defense, Commerce and Agriculture Departments, the Central Intelligence Agency and the trade representative's office. All have to be distilled into the material that will be presented to the President.
Aides involved in preparing the President and Hillary Rodham Clinton do not know (or will not say) whether the Clintons have plowed through the voluminous material they have already received. As is his custom, Mr. Clinton is not likely to begin cramming for the trip until just before his departure. And he will have 16 hours aboard Air Force One en route to his first stop, in Xian, to study.
While Government China experts have been toiling virtually around the clock to complete the details of the trip, the President's attention has been only episodic, according to one senior official involved in the planning.
He consulted with aides before delivering a major address on China policy at the National Geographic Society on June 11. He spent an hour on Thursday meeting with religious leaders who recently returned from a visit to China to observe the progress toward religious freedom there.
But he also had to make time to attend political fund-raisers, to monitor the collapse of anti-smoking legislation and to socialize with journalists at a White House picnic. He travels to Nashville on Monday to speak at a conference on the American family.
The real crunch begins early next week, when the President is to meet privately with a group of China scholars and other experts, aides said. But no time has been set for the meeting and no invitations have gone out, they added, and Mr. Clinton may not find time for a final review session with outsiders before his departure.
Among those the President has consulted in the past are Harry Harding of George Washington University, Kenneth Lieberthal of the University of Michigan, Nicholas R. Lardy of the Brookings Institution, Michael D. Swaine of the Rand Corporation, Merle Goldman of Boston University and Richard Solomon of the United States Institute of Peace.
While Mr. Clinton's classwork centers chiefly on substantive issues -- missile proliferation, human rights, Asia's economic troubles -- he is also being briefed on matters of protocol and the behavior expected of a visiting head of state.
The White House does not want to repeat an ugly incident that marred the last Presidential visit to China, President Bush's two-day trip to Beijing in February 1989. The White House invited a prominent dissident, Fang Lizhi, to a banquet and then stood helplessly by as Chinese authorities forcibly prevented Mr. Fang from attending.
The American blunder and the Chinese reaction could have been anticipated if Mr. Bush had been more sensitive to his host's needs, according to Robert A. Kapp, president of the U.S.-China Business Council, who has studied and worked in China for decades.
"Understand, China is a place where for 5,000 years the correctness of your behavior depends on the role you are playing," Mr. Kapp said. "The role of foreign guest is very formalized, with a series of conventions on both sides. He must show respect for his hosts, and while he may speak bluntly about his concerns, he must do so in a way that allows the Chinese to maintain their dignity."
Accordingly, there is no public meeting with dissidents on Mr. Clinton's schedule. But aides suggest that the President will find a way to quietly visit with outspoken opponents of the Government.
"Most people don't respond very well to threats and to isolation," Mr. Clinton said in brief appearance at the White House Friday.
White House aides marvel at how quickly the President learns his brief and steps into his prescribed role. While they are under intense pressure to complete the preparation before the nine-day trip, Mr. Clinton appears blithely unconcerned about the grueling public schedule he faces and its potential pitfalls.
"I think he thrives on that kind of thing," one senior White House official involved in the preparations said. "It's like an actor before a big performance -- the whole phase of being down before the curtain comes up, and then going on and putting on the show."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 24, 1998, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about President Clinton's preparations for his trip to China included an incorrect interpretation of remarks by Robert A. Kapp, president of the United States-China Business Council. While Mr. Kapp said foreign visitors to China should be sensitive to their hosts, he did not link the observation to President Bush's 1989 visit to Beijing, in which the White House invited a prominent dissident to a banquet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (62%); 

PERSON: BRODER, JOHN M; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1998



491 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Many Insurers Are Deciding Not to Cover Cost of Viagra

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
Some of the nation's biggest health insurers have decided not to pay for Viagra, the new male impotence drug, under their prescription drug plans. They said that providing the recommended 6 to 12 pills per month would be too expensive, adding hundreds of millions of dollars to annual costs.
The drug has been promoted as an important enhancement to the quality of life for many older men and their wives, but some health economists have raised questions about the medical necessity of a treatment for impotence and the expense relative to other drugs. 
 Kaiser Permanente, the nation's largest nonprofit health maintenance organization, announced yesterday that Viagra would only be available as an extra benefit at an additional cost to employer groups or to individuals who buy it with their own money at Kaiser pharmacies.
Kaiser, which has 9.1 million members in 19 states, said the cost of covering Viagra would have exceeded $100 million a year. Many Kaiser members are older men who are believed likely to request the drug.
Aetna U.S. Healthcare, another large insurance company, told New York insurance officials this week that it would not cover Viagra, except as an option at extra cost. Aetna estimated that covering Viagra could add $50 million to its costs.
Medicaid officials in several states, including New York, have said they will not cover Viagra unless Federal Medicaid officials require it. Officials in Washington have said they do not expect to require coverage when a doctor says Viagra is medically necessary.
Pfizer Inc., which makes Viagra, said many other insurers were covering the drug. Patrick Kelly, a senior vice president of the Pfizer Pharmaceutical division, said two million prescriptions had been filled since Viagra went on sale in pharmacies in mid-April.
Pfizer said large insurers covering Viagra included Blue Cross & Blue Shield plans in California and Indiana, the NYLcare unit of the New York Life Insurance Company and Harvard Pilgrim Health Care, based in Massachusetts, as well as the Department of Defense health plan.
The United Healthcare Corporation, also a large national insurer, said it had adopted an interim policy of approving eight pills a month. Several big companies said they had not decided what to do about Viagra.
Merck-Medco, a unit of Merck & Company, which sells drugs and manages drug benefits for health plans, advised 1,100 customers to limit coverage to 12 pills a month. Kevin Colgan, a spokesman for Medco, said a survey by its sales staff found a variety of policies, ranging from unlimited coverage to exclusion, as well as requirements that physicians get approval before prescribing Viagra.
Pfizer said it had recommended 10 pills a month, based on results during its tests of the drug. But Mr. Kelly said 6 a month was the number covered by most health plans.
Beverly Hayon, a spokeswoman for Kaiser Permanente, said the issue was "the affordability of health care." After a bruising struggle over costs with the California Public Employees Retirement System, Kaiser's biggest customer, the health maintenance organization reduced a proposed rate increase to 10.75 percent from the 12 percent it originally sought, in a compromise announced this week. Ms. Hayon said Kaiser's estimate of $100 million a year to cover Viagra was conservative.
She said the California pension fund had also decided to exclude coverage of Viagra from its big self-insured health care networks, which are separate from the Kaiser plans.
A spokeswoman for the New York State Department of Health had a different reason for excluding Viagra coverage. The spokeswoman, Frances E. Tarlton, said that because of the demand for Viagra it had a potential for abuse, including being sold on the street by people who obtained it from Medicaid.
Mary Sevon, a pharmacy benefits consultant in Fairless Hills, Pa., said the cost of Viagra would vary according to the age of a health plan's members. For a Medicare plan, she said it could be as high as $60 per member per year. For plans with younger members, and presumably lower demand for the drug, the cost might be as low as $5 to $12 a year.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 24, 1998, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about insurance coverage for Viagra misstated Medicaid policy on paying for it. Federal officials have said they expect to require Medicaid payments for Viagra, not deny them, when a doctor says the drug is medically necessary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (95%); PFE (NYSE) (95%); MRK (PAR) (85%); MRK (NYSE) (85%); UNH (NYSE) (84%); AET (NYSE) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (95%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (95%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (95%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (85%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (84%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (84%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (74%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KAISER PERMANENTE; AETNA US HEALTHCARE PFIZER INC (95%); MERCK & CO INC (85%); KAISER PERMANENTE (85%); NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (84%); UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (84%); AETNA INC (74%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (65%); MEDICAID (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: KAISER PERMANENTE; AETNA US HEALTHCARE MEDICAID (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SEX; VIAGRA (DRUG); IMPOTENCE; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICAID INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); MEDICAID (90%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PHARMACIES (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (76%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); SALES FORCE (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (63%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1998



492 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 4; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1684 words

HEADLINE: Embarrassment Of Critics: Raters Rated

BYLINE: By JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI 

 BODY:
These should be the best of times for critics. The arts in America are exploding, culture has been democratized and just about anything can be called "art."
Who else but the professional critic has the expertise and the perspicacity to go through it all, to determine what is art and what is a masquerade, and to explain why? 
 Yet in today's highly commercialized society, where distinctions between high culture and low have become blurred, celebrities often hold as much sway as critics, at least in determining popular success.
Book publishers crave a push from Oprah Winfrey or Don Imus, while Broadway turns to Rosie O'Donnell, an unabashedly uncritical booster, to give a show a lift. The fact that Andrew Lloyd Webber collects Victorian art helped revive interest in artists like Edward Burne-Jones (who now has an exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art). And Hollywood, with help from eager television producers, editors of glossy magazines and reviewers happy to provide gushing ad blurbs, can now generate a flood of glowing publicity that often drowns out serious critiques.
Put that all together with the proliferation of cable television channels, talk shows, Internet sites and magazines that dote on celebrities, and it is no wonder part of the critic's role has been usurped.
But does the rise of the celebrity taste maker, who functions more as booster than as judge, mean the decline of the serious critic? And if critics are less read and less heeded in the commercial arena and perhaps even among the cultural elite, who or what is to blame?
These questions are starting to cause considerable debate among critics who publish in academic journals and those who write for newspapers and magazines. The answers so far focus not only on society's commercialism, but also on the importance of young audiences that disdain authority figures and on the critics themselves.
Much academic criticism, of course, has long been written off as impenetrable and irrelevant. But now a small but growing cadre worries that critics who write for wider audiences are losing influence, too, leaving the mass market in charge of defining what is good and what is bad art.
Certainly, some artists and critics argue, no one wields the influence of a Clement Greenberg, who championed Abstract Expressionists like Jackson Pollack; or Brooks Atkinson, who raised awareness of serious American dramatists like Eugene O'Neill, or Pauline Kael, who made the reputations of directors like Martin Scorsese.
"A lot of critics think they have power, and it's news to them that people aren't listening to them," said Maurice Berger, who recently edited "The Crisis of Criticism" (The New Press, 1998). Mr. Berger, a senior fellow at the Vera List Center for Art and Politics at the New School, hopes the collection of articles by writers like Joyce Carol Oates, Bell Hooks and Wayne Koestenbaum, a professor at the City University of New York, will set off alarms.
Morris Dickstein, the director of the Center for the Humanities at the City University of New York and the author of "Double Agent: The Critic and Society" (Oxford University Press, 1992), about literary criticism, would agree. Although he did not believe that there was a crisis, he said that criticism was even more consequential now than in the past precisely because culture and commerce were so intertwined, particularly in areas like film.
"The interest of the people who are doing the marketing is in producing products that are floating on a sea of hype," he said. "Only when you read a serious review do you see the issues underneath. Criticism plays a very important role in keeping people honest. Otherwise things will be hyped out of sight and reduced to the lowest common denominator."
"Criticism is especially helpful with avant-garde art or when the arts are changing," he added. "There are things that don't make sense to people without reviews." Turning to history, he cites George Balanchine, whose choreography made shapes in space, like an Abstract painting, instead of telling a story: "Critics helped expose the public to the subtle things he was doing."
Though he sees no need for hand-wringing, Mr. Dickstein did say that critics had lost some power to influence public taste, as did Michael G. Kammen, a Pulitzer Prize-winning historian who wrote "The Lively Arts: Gilbert Seldes and the Transformation of Cultural Criticism in the United States" (Oxford University Press, 1996), among other books. "There has been," he said, "a steady diminution over the last 50 years."
The slide stems, in part, from demographics and the youth culture. Joe Roth, who as the chairman of Walt Disney Studios decides what movies are made and orchestrates the high-octane campaigns to sell them, has noted a difference among generations. Younger audiences, who go to movies more often than their elders, prefer to make up their own minds based on buzz, not reviews.
Several critics cite the money-driven market economy, which defines a high-quality movie as one that does well at the box office, not one that offers a powerful script or fine acting, as the source of critical malaise. From Nielsen ratings to best-seller lists, a market gauge exists for virtually every arts field.
Other critics think part of the problem is self-inflicted. "The Crisis of Criticism," for example, was at least partly inspired by an internecine incident: Arlene Croce, the dance critic, wrote a piece for The New Yorker in December 1995 explaining that she had declined to see and review a performance by the black, gay, H.I.V.-positive choreographer Bill T. Jones because it included video and audio tapes of people terminally ill with cancer and AIDS. "Victim art," she called it, a prime example of how culture had been politicized beyond recognition.
The article met with swift reaction, pro and con, not only from readers but also from Ms. Oates, who argued that Ms. Croce's article was "a landmark admission of the bankruptcy of the old critical vocabulary, confronted with ever-new and evolving forms of art."
In no time, Mr. Berger was recruiting critics to criticize criticism of literature, dance, art, film, music, even fashion. "It's like a bunch of doctors saying that the medical system isn't working very well," he said. "It's still important even though it's something that patients have known all along."
Mr. Koestenbaum, author of "Jackie Under My Skin: Interpreting an Icon" and writer of the libretto for the opera "Jackie O," sees a problem with the woeful amount of space available for book criticism and wants critics to use what is available more advisedly. He proposes a radical plan to remedy the "waste of space" given over to "a reviewer's display of spleen," adding "as if there were not hundreds of shipwrecked books that never receive adequate attention." He writes: "I suggest that the exercise of sanctioned aggression known as book reviewing be retired and replaced by passionate acts of advocacy. Writing a review takes enormous work. I cannot imagine summoning the energy if I didn't feel that I needed to save a book from certain death, to wedge it into a crowded marketplace, to support a kind of writing that I esteem." (He did not address the question of who would print only positive reviews.)
Alan Wolfe, a sociology professor at Boston University, is also troubled by book critics, but for a different reason. Writing recently in The Chronicle of Higher Education, he took on both academic and popular writers for using reviews to discuss the writers' motive or to advancetheir own political and ideological views. "The actual book -- its craft, its cogency, its energy, its shortcomings -- gets lost," he wrote.
Others, like Sarah Rothenberg, a musician with Da Camera in Houston, and Richard Martin, the curator of the Costume Institute at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, fault critics for such sins as using alienating jargon, speaking mainly to one another instead of addressing the concerns of readers, automatically bowing before politically charged and multicultural works for fear of giving offense, and simply, lazily asserting their views, without displaying any reasoning. "There's a certain mentality among critics, that if I say it's good, it's good, and I don't have to say why," Mr. Berger said.
Critics may also have lost power with the public because there are now so many of them, Mr. Kammen said. "As recently as 20 or 25 years ago, there were not as many critics," he said. "Now The New York Times reviews pop culture that it would not have 20 years ago, and there's an incredible number of popular culture magazines that have critics. You see six or more reviews of something, and you feel you're drowning in different perspectives. That's different from when Clement Greenberg could make or break not only an artist but a whole movement."
Yet Mr. Kammen adds that the democratization of criticism is not necessarily bad because the big critic can have too much power: "When Clement Greenberg didn't like something, he absolutely scorned it and it ceased to be an option: even museums didn't buy what he didn't like. He became a tyrant of taste, not an arbiter of taste."
David A. Ross, who just became the director of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art after seven years as director of the heavily criticized Whitney Museum of American Art in Manhattan, argues that the arts profit most from a combination of popular and critical response.
In fact, he often tries to ignore critics. "People vote with their feet," Mr. Ross said. "And when attendance is up and membership is up, you know you're doing the right thing."
"The critical dialogue is very important," he added. "But it's important for critics to not just say, 'This is what I like.' We want their opinion, but we want them to educate, to inspire people to go out and look at something. The 'thumbs up, thumbs down' kind of criticism inspires apathy and cynicism. It's a misunderstanding of the critic's responsibility, which is to say, 'Go out and see this, and then let's talk.' "

CORRECTION-DATE: November 24, 1998, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A brief report in the Media Talk column of Business Day yesterday about the Museum of Modern Art's refusal to allow a CBS segment on a major exhibition there misspelled the surname of the artist involved. (The name was also misspelled on Nov. 8 in the Dining Out column of the Connecticut section; on June 29 in a fashion review from Milan; and in an Arts & Ideas article on June 20 about the state of arts criticism in America.) The artist is Jackson Pollock, not Pollack.
The report yesterday also misspelled the given name of the museum official in charge of the exhibition and misstated his title. He is Kirk Varnedoe, not Kurt, and he is the exhibition's curator, not its director.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Vincent Kirsch)(pg. B9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (61%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (56%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (56%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; CRITICS AND CRITICISM CELEBRITIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (75%); PUBLISHING (75%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (75%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (75%); EXHIBITIONS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); BOOK PUBLISHING (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (67%); 

PERSON: DOBRZYNSKI, JUDITH H OPRAH WINFREY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1998



493 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 30; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: June 21, 1998

 BODY:

	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	1	6	A WIDOW FOR ONE YEAR, by John Irving. (Random House, $27.95.) Three looks at the complex emotional life of a writer and single mother.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	5	4	CITIES OF THE PLAIN, by Cormac McCarthy. (Knopf, $24.) The concluding volume of a trilogy about two cowboys vexed by changing times.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	6	4	SECRET PREY, by John Sandford. (Putnam, $24.95.) Lucas Davenport pursues the killer of a company chairman who was on a hunting trip with four colleagues.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	3	8	YOU BELONG TO ME, by Mary Higgins Clark. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) A radio talk-show host undertakes to expose a killer who targets lonely women.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5	10	164	 *OH, THE PLACES YOU'LL GO! by Dr. Seuss. (Random House, $17.) The problems of finding your way through life; in verse and pictures.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6	2	7	"N" IS FOR NOOSE, by Sue Grafton. (Wood/Holt, $25.) Kinsey Millhone pursues the facts behind the sudden, strange death of a cop in a California town.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7	7	9	MESSAGE IN A BOTTLE, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $20.) After finding a seaborne bottle containing an enigmatic letter, a divorced woman encounters love.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8	8	3	SUMMER SISTERS, by Judy Blume. (Delacorte, $21.95.) Two young women from very different backgrounds come of age together on Martha's Vineyard.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 9	9	18	THE STREET LAWYER, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $27.95.) A young lawyer comes to terms with himself after discovering his prestigious firm's dirty secret.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10	4	19	BLACK AND BLUE, by Anna Quindlen. (Random House, $23.) After her husband turns violent, a woman flees to Florida with her young son to start a new life.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 11	12	50	COLD MOUNTAIN, by Charles Frazier. (Atlantic Monthly, $24.) A wounded Confederate soldier journeys home toward the end of the Civil War to meet an old love and a new world.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 12	11	31	MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA, by Arthur Golden. (Knopf, $25.) The life of a young woman growing up in Kyoto who has to reinvent herself after World War II begins.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 13	16	2	A NIGHT WITHOUT ARMOR, by Jewel Kilcher. (HarperCollins, $15.) The singer-songwriter's poems contemplate love, family, Alaska and life on the road.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 14		1	THE LAST FULL MEASURE, by Jeff Shaara. (Ballantine, $25.95.) The final years of the Civil War, seen through the eyes of its participants; the concluding volume of a trilogy.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 15		1	BRIDGET JONES'S DIARY, by Helen Fielding. (Viking, $22.95.) A year in the life of a 30-something single woman in London.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	1	35	TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE, by Mitch Albom. (Doubleday, $19.95.) A sportswriter tells of his weekly visits to his old college mentor, who was near death's door.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2		1	A PIRATE LOOKS AT FIFTY, by Jimmy Buffett. (Random House, $24.95.) While traveling from the Florida Keys to the Amazon, the singer-songwriter reflects on his half-century of life.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	2	7	WE ARE OUR MOTHERS' DAUGHTERS, by Cokie Roberts. (Morrow, $19.95.) The television news anchor's personal reflections on women in politics and business and as mothers, wives, sisters and friends.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	4	3	TITAN, by Ron Chernow. (Random House, $30.) The life of John D. Rockefeller Sr.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5	3	44	THE MAN WHO LISTENS TO HORSES, by Monty Roberts. (Random House, $23.) The memoirs of a professional horse trainer.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6		2	A WALK IN THE WOODS, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $25.) A journalist finds beauty and humor while hiking the Appalachian Trail.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7	5	10	 * THE GIFTS OF THE JEWS, by Thomas Cahill. (Talese/ Doubleday, $23.50.) What Western civilization owes an ancient nomadic tribe.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8	7	92	ANGELA'S ASHES, by Frank McCourt. (Scribner, $25.) An Irish-American writer remembers his childhood amid the miseries of Limerick.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 9		1	A MONK SWIMMING, by Malachy McCourt. (Hyperion, $23.95.) The writer and actor (and brother of Frank McCourt) recalls his life in America and Ireland.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10	8	74	THE MILLIONAIRE NEXT DOOR, by Thomas J. Stanley and William D. Danko. (Longstreet, $22.) An analysis of the lives of wealthy Americans discloses that they have seven characteristics in common. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 11	6	6	STILL ME, by Christopher Reeve. (Random House, $25.) The stage and film actor looks back at his life, especially since his crippling accident three years ago.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 12	10	79	CONVERSATIONS WITH GOD: Book 1, by Neale Donald Walsch. (Putnam, $19.95.) The author addresses questions of good and evil, guilt and sin. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 13	11	205	MIDNIGHT IN THE GARDEN OF GOOD AND EVIL, by John Berendt. (Random House, $25.) The mysterious death of a young man in Savannah, Ga. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 14	9	24	TALKING TO HEAVEN, by James Van Praagh. (Dutton, $22.95.) A "world-famous medium" discusses communication with the other side.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 15		1	UNDERSTANDING MEN'S PASSAGES, by Gail Sheehy. (Random House, $24.) A woman's view of how men can and do change the course of their lives as they age.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1		28	EIGHT WEEKS TO OPTIMUM HEALTH, by Andrew Weil. (Knopf, $23.) A physician's diet, exercise and psychological program. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	2	6	SUGAR BUSTERS! by H. Leighton Steward et al. (Ballantine, $22.) A diet designed for losing weight, increasing energy and combating disease. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	4	12	THE 9 STEPS TO FINANCIAL FREEDOM, by Suze Orman. (Crown, $23.) Practical and spiritual steps for managing your money. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	1	9	IN THE MEANTIME, by Iyanla Vanzant. (Simon & Schuster, $23.) Ways to find what you truly need, particularly "the love that you want." (+)	
 
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending June 6, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/books.
 
And Bear in Mind
(Editors' choices of other recent books of particular interest)
 
A BEAUTIFUL MIND, by Sylvia Nasar. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) The author, who writes about economics for The Times, chronicles the remarkable life of John Nash, the developer of game theory, following him from his brilliant early career through crippling schizophrenia, mysterious recovery and a Nobel Prize.
 
BEYOND BELIEF: Islamic Excursions Among the Converted Peoples, by V. S. Naipaul. (Random House, $27.95.) Retracing a voyage he made in 1979, the novelist and essayist journeys through Indonesia, Iran, Pakistan and Malaya, using Islam as a window on the animism, nationalism, capitalism and other isms he encounters there.
 
COLD NEW WORLD: Growing Up in a Harder Country, by William Finnegan. (Random House, $26.) With great sympathy but no pity, a journalist profiles four young people who have mortgaged their futures for drugs, crime and extremism; through their stories he examines the social forces that compelled their desperate choices.
 
FREEDOMLAND, by Richard Price. (Broadway, $25.) In a novel that echoes the Susan Smith case, racial tensions erupt in a New Jersey city after a dazed and bleeding white woman claims her 4-year-old son was abducted by a black carjacker.
 
I KNOW THIS MUCH IS TRUE, by Wally Lamb. (Regan Books/HarperCollins, $27.50.) This novel's protagonist, who has already suffered life's most devastating losses, must somehow rally to care for his equally bereft schizophrenic brother.
 
LOVES THAT BIND, by Julian Rios. (Knopf, $24.) In this epistolary novel first published in Spain, the narrator dreamily chronicles a slew of past sexual encounters in a series of letters to his (current) beloved, for whom he is searching in London. Beloved's response is not recorded.
 
THE PRIEST FAINTED, by Catherine Temma Davidson. (John Macrae/Holt, $23.) Call it hubris, but the young heroine of this first novel, who is spending a year in Greece, views her new life as part of a continuum that began with Athena & Co.
 
THE PROCESS: 1,100 Days That Changed the Middle East, by Uri Savir. (Random House, $27.95.) The leader of Israel's negotiating team in the months preceding the Oslo accords chronicles the agonizing political and personal drama.
 
TO END A WAR, by Richard Holbrooke. (Random House, $27.95.) Thousands of troops and billions of dollars later, the killing in Bosnia has ended; that history is recounted by the American diplomat and architect of the Dayton accords.
 
THE TREATMENT, by Daniel Menaker. (Knopf, $23.) Aimless, dateless and motherless, the hero of this novel thinks he's got problems -- until he lies on the couch of the last surviving Freudian.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WOMEN (89%); WRITERS (77%); SONG WRITING (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (72%); CIVIL WAR (63%); WORLD WAR II (60%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); 

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



494 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 19; Column 4; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Full House

BYLINE: By Walter Goodman; Walter Goodman is a television critic for The Times.

 BODY:

SHUT UP AND DEAL
 By Jesse May.
 217 pp. New York:
 Anchor Books/Doubleday.
 Paper, $12.95. 
 Reading "Shut Up and Deal" while hanging around at the World Series of Poker, held every May at Binion's Horseshoe in downtown Las Vegas, was a chastening experience. Jesse May, the author of these ostensible confessions of a professional poker player, does not let the reader who thinks he knows how to play the game forget that in the company of the pros, he is a tourist, a mark, the live one. And being there at Binion's, watching the big boys with their stacks of $100 bills and their piles of chips in expensive hues, only enlarges the gulf between you and them.
"Shut Up and Deal" is presented as a novel, but that may be a bluff. The characters seem to have been inspired by players May has observed or heard about on the casino circuit. Mickey, the narrator, tracks the Las Vegas, Atlantic City and Connecticut regulars, with excursions abroad and afield. He brings on Russian Alex, Vinnie the Greek, Uptown Raoul Abdul, Johnny World and Hot Mama Earl and chronicles the rivalry between bad Bart Stone and stoned John Smiley.
There's plenty of the smoky, jittery atmosphere of the establishments where, given the odds and casino economics, even the great stud and hold-'em specialists must wind up losers -- at the tables as well as in what passes for life away from them. They are susceptible to bad hands and the bad dreams they inspire.
Missing in May's dash from anecdote to unresounding anecdote is a sustaining narrative, which may be a comment on the poker player's attention span: "Shut up and deal!" Insofar as there is a plot, it concerns a young man's disillusionment with his dream existence of playing poker all the time.
Mickey himself is a dim figure, and the castoff outfits he wears for luck or to provide the semblance of a personality don't help much: "I'm standing there trying to stay calm wearing a 1930's maroon pinstripe three-piece gangster suit that looked real wild and crazy and made a big hit in the poker room when I came gallivanting in about 14 or 15 hours before. Now it's wrinkled and smelly and hot and not real comfortable." Like the nicknames and the scenery, the costumes are efforts to invest the pallid characters with some color.
May is at his best in delivering the occasional flash of frenetic energy. Here's a player named Josh Vasaki busting in on a $100-200 game: He "throws a pile of money down and sits down in the open seat and stands up and then sits down and then gets up on his knees and lights a cigarette and says, 'Deal me in. Hello, boys, what are you playing? Let's raise the limit. Yo, World, Johnny World, I want to play you head up, World. Fresca Kid! Kid, Kid, Kid, how's it going? You think you're the king. They say you're the best, Kid -- I'm gonna beat you, I'm gonna break you, I'm gonna take all your money, Kid. Who's it to? Is it to me? Raise. I raise! What is this game, it's eight or better, right?' "
Such an introduction brings the prospect of action, but there's no follow-through, just another unmemorable episode. Players come and go; yesterday's winner is today's loser; connections are lacking. Just like in a casino.
A common problem with poker tales is a want of climactic variety: either a shrewd bluff drives out the better hand or the cards defy credibility and somebody makes a straight flush against the other guy's four aces. When, like May, an author sticks closer to the reality of poker, which is more like ritual than opera, there's not much punch. In his search for a theme, the best May comes up with is: "People always want to know what's going on and what's going on is people are going broke. That's mostly it. And the trick is not to be one of them." The reader who is not already hooked on poker lore is likely to begin drifting.
Reading this short book, especially between sessions at the (in my case, low-stakes) tables during the World Series, where all the talk is poker talk, is like tuning in at the bar to somebody else's triumphs and beats. You've heard them before, and they go down better with a drink.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SHUT UP AND DEAL (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEVADA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POKER (90%); GAMING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WRITERS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); LITERATURE (78%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER; MAY, JESSE

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



495 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 5; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1759 words

HEADLINE: The Caucasian War

BYLINE: By Bill Keller; Bill Keller, the managing editor of The New York Times, was the paper's Moscow correspondent from 1986 to 1991.

 BODY:

CHECHNYA
 Calamity in the Caucasus.
 By Carlotta Gall and Thomas de Waal.
 Illustrated. 416 pp. New York:
 New York University Press. $26.95.
 
 CHECHNYA
 Tombstone of Russian Power.
 By Anatol Lieven.
 Illustrated. 436 pp. New Haven:
 Yale University Press. $35. 
 On New Year's Eve, 1994, the Russian military, the heir of the army that had kept the Western world in an anxious thrall for generations, went to war against a rough band of separatists in the Caucasus Mountains. It was an avoidable conflict, born of stupid pride and political opportunism on both sides. Over the next two years, under the disengaged direction of a sick, addled and intrigue-bedeviled President Boris Yeltsin, Russian troops laid waste to a provincial oil center, killed tens of thousands of their own countrymen and earned a reputation for brutality, mutiny and corruption (among other things, by selling an arsenal of light and heavy weapons to the enemy). And after all that, the Russians retreated in mortifying defeat.
The shame of Russia in the province of Chechnya passed without serious official condemnation in a West protective of Yeltsin's putative reforms. The subject has rarely been mentioned since, although it has instructive relevance, for example, in debates over Serbia's suppression of Albanian separatists in Kosovo and the expansion of the NATO military alliance. Now "Chechnya: Calamity in the Caucasus," by Carlotta Gall and Thomas de Waal, and "Chechnya: Tombstone of Russian Power," by Anatol Lieven, two very rich, very different books, have arrived to remind us of Russia's disastrous little war and its larger lessons.
Gall and de Waal covered the war from beginning to end (for The Moscow Times, with de Waal also reporting for The Times of London and The Economist). Their book is an exceptional feat of war correspondence. It is hard to imagine that it will be surpassed as the definitive account of the conflict.
There seem to be few important moments of the war that the two reporters did not witness -- from the first Pyrrhic bomber and tank siege of the Chechen capital, Grozny, to the audacious acts of Chechen terrorism on Russian soil that destroyed what little remained of Russian resolve, to the final humiliation, in which 1,500 Chechen rebels recaptured Grozny and effectively made hostages of the 12,000 Russian troops garrisoned there. What Gall and de Waal did not see themselves they have reconstructed from voluminous interviews with hapless Russian infantrymen, Chechen guerrillas, civilian witnesses and officials at every level. All this they have spun into a gripping narrative of war, politics and diplomacy.
Like earlier writers, from Tolstoy to John le Carre, the authors of both these books are a bit infatuated with the fortitude and national esprit of the Chechens, whose clannish codes of loyalty and Sufi Muslim traditions have survived the cruelties of czars and Bolsheviks alike. Both books contain moving reminiscences of the survivors of Stalin's vicious deportation of the Chechens and lively accounts of this people's nearly 200 years of sporadic resistance to Russian dominion. Within Russia, the Chechens were particularly equipped by their historical grievances and their militarism to be the instrument that exposed the hollowness of Russian power. (One of the lessons the authors of these two books wisely do not draw is that Chechnya is a precedent for the wider collapse of the Russian Federation.)
The general picture of the war is familiar enough from Vietnam and Algeria and other antecedents: a small nation with something to fight for and the advantages of guerrilla mobility warring on familiar terrain against a lumbering and dispirited colonial power. But there are aspects of the war that made it unique.
One is the weird economic symbiosis between Chechnya and Russia. Gall and de Waal are especially good at explaining how the Chechens exploited their position within Russia to raise the money for their war of independence. This included siphoning off oil, swindling the Russian state in a series of bank frauds, transforming Grozny into a great black-market emporium and serving as home base for Moscow's toughest network of gangsters.
More than a Chechen victory, the war was a Russian defeat. Gall and de Waal itemize the litany of military failures. The Russian operation was so ill conceived that it began with heavy armor blundering, with no maps, into the sniper-infested urban labyrinth of Grozny; so badly supplied that troops endured winters without warm clothing or sufficient rations, forcing some to kill and eat stray dogs; so badly disciplined that they committed torture and summary execution and looted whatever they could lay their hands on, including antiquities from a Grozny museum. About the only heroic figures on the Russian side are the mothers of young soldiers, who, in one of the stranger spectacles of a strange war, crossed enemy lines to deliver food to hostage sons and accept released captives, while loudly damning the idiocy of their rulers.
Gall and de Waal draw no explicit conclusions from the war. The decay of the Russian military and the unaccountability of the Kremlin leadership are implicit in the story they tell, but they also seem fairly sanguine about the underlying health of opposition politics in Russia, embodied in the news media and parliamentary human rights advocates. A concluding chapter looks only to the future of Chechnya and refrains from predicting whether the tenuous peace there will hold.
Where Gall and de Waal withhold judgment, Anatol Lieven is extravagant in his. Lieven ran with journalists in Chechnya (he covered the war for The Times of London), but his real allegiance is to a different fraternity: the angry young scholars who have raged for the past decade against the smug conventional wisdoms on the subject of Russia. At present he is the editor of Strategic Currents at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London.
His account of what he witnessed in Chechnya and his analysis of the conflict take up less than half of his book. While his firsthand reporting is not nearly as thorough as that of Gall and de Waal, and tends to be centered on the author himself (his evidence that the Chechen President, Dzhokhar Dudayev, is not authentically Chechen includes Dudayev's failure to offer him a cup of tea as prescribed by local custom), it is still a solid, vivid account, informed by extensive study of how wars are fought, and it is written with a skill that verges at times on the poetic. Lieven is sometimes more rigorously skeptical than Gall and de Waal -- for instance, on estimates of civilian casualties. (Gall and de Waal accept human rights monitors' estimate of 50,000 civilians dead. Lieven comes up with a number about half that size, rightly noting that "Russian democrats are not much better than Russian bureaucrats when it comes to care with figures.")
Lieven's real mission, though, is to demolish the rival mythologies of Russia either as an evil, voracious empire or as a larval (if peculiar) democracy awaiting only the right infusion of reform to burst into full flight. The hollow Russian military whose weakness was so dramatically demonstrated in Chechnya was, Lieven argues, one important symptom of a debilitating national disorder. Drawing less on Russian history than on analogies to Spain and Latin America in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, he diagnoses a country enfeebled top to bottom. The state was long ago supplanted by the Communist Party, which then collapsed. The society had the gumption beaten out of it by Stalin and by the dispiriting culture of Soviet dependency.
Under its facade of democracy, Lieven argues, Russia is actually run by corrupt chieftains -- a clique of clever and ruthless bankers -- who distribute patronage, fix elections and kill off their challengers while paying lip service to law and progress. Most of what the West has tended to accept as reform has been the privatizing of wealth in the hands of this oligarchy. The export of Russian minerals and other natural resources has disguised the underlying poverty of the nationwide rust belt inherited from the Soviet era and virtually untouched by reform.
Lieven's main conclusion is that the robber barons who hold the upper hand have no vested interest in risking military action beyond Russian borders, even if they had a willing and able military, which they clearly do not. Russia is a threat to no one but itself.
Lieven is given to digressions, including an intelligent riff on the lack of American readiness to fight wars in urban settings and a chapter on the Cossacks that is more beside the point than he thinks. But he has traveled widely (what other book on a war in the Caucasus would draw on reporting from the far eastern port of Vladivostok?) and he has read wisely on the history of warfare, on Russia, on economics, on political theory.
The book is a great, ostentatiously erudite festival of ideas, sometimes brilliant, sometimes dubious, but never less than interesting. Lieven is shrewd about the illusory economic reforms and unusually acute on the nuances of Russian nationalism. He makes a strong case that the occasional imperialist rhetoric about restoring the Soviet Union is not to be taken seriously. If there is a danger the West should guard against in dealing with the Russians, it is an inward-looking chauvinism that could have harsh consequences for Russia's domestic minorities.
Elsewhere he overstates. I think he exaggerates the passivity of the public in toppling Communism; while that upheaval was certainly led by an elite few, the people at the top were responding to a tangible throw-the-bums-out mood reflected by strikes, marches, raucous public discussion and, yes, elections. Although by his own charming admission Lieven has learned the danger of predicting the future (he was certain, for example, that public outrage over the brutal war in Chechnya would cost Yeltsin his job), he persists in predicting. He is convinced that the rule of the rich elite is unlikely to give way to more common notions of democracy because the robber barons control the cash and television needed for real reform. Maybe, but the West once assumed the same about the Communist Party.
And in proclaiming Russia's impotence, he virtually ignores the bullying power that comes with control of thousands of nuclear warheads. This is a rather startling omission in a book that is so often so smart.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CHECHNYA: CALAMITY IN THE CAUCASUS (BOOK); CHECHNYA: TOMBSTONE OF RUSSIAN POWER (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); CAUCASIAN STATES (94%); SERBIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); KOSOVO (79%); ALBANIA (79%); UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: CAUCASUS MOUNTAINS (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); YALE UNIVERSITY (58%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (58%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); CAUCASIAN STATES (94%); SERBIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); KOSOVO (79%); ALBANIA (79%); UNITED STATES (73%); CAUCASUS MOUNTAINS (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); WRITERS (86%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (79%); ARMED FORCES (77%); ARMIES (77%); POLITICS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); TERRORISM (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); LITERATURE (69%); HOSTAGE TAKING (69%); MOUNTAINS (56%); 

PERSON: KELLER, BILL; GALL, CARLOTTA; DE WAAL, THOMAS; LIEVEN, ANATOL BORIS YELTSIN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



496 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 34; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Splurge

BYLINE: By Peter T. Kilborn; Peter T. Kilborn is a national correspondent for The Times, based in Washington.

 BODY:

THE OVERSPENT AMERICAN
 Upscaling, Downshifting, and the New Consumer.
 By Juliet B. Schor.
 Illustrated. 253 pp. New York:
 Basic Books. $25. 
 There must be a reason some Americans have so little sense of themselves that they buy a shirt emblazoned with Tommy Hilfiger's phony coat of arms. There must be reasons they pay a premium for a designer lipstick instead of the anonymous equivalent at Walgreen's, buy desert-ready Land Rovers to commute over asphalt, generate the world's highest per capita volume of trash and, even in today's lush job-rich economy, pack the bankruptcy courts.
It is not because they need this stuff (if "need" still means their lives depend on it). Thorstein Veblen attributed conspicuous consumption among the rich to a desire to define social positions, and later James Duesenberry attributed it to "keeping up with the Joneses." In "The Overspent American," Juliet B. Schor, a Harvard economist, has identified a more recent variation of our materialism, an insidiously ruinous form of "competitive spending" and "competitive acquisition" that she calls "the new consumerism." Most Americans -- she excludes the poor and the ultrarich -- are no longer obsessed with the Joneses. They barely know the Joneses. The Joneses, husband and wife, are away at work, a phenomenon that -- along with the loss of leisure activity, treated by Schor six years ago in her insightful "Overworked American" -- provided the seeds of her latest look at ourselves.
Today's Americans, Schor argues, compete for status within "reference groups" -- primarily people at the office, members of their professions, friends or relatives or people of the same religion -- that stretch from those who are just making it to the very well off. The $30,000-a-year junior marketing manager aspires to the life style and emblems of the $300,000-a-year senior vice president for marketing. We strive and fall short, and we feel anxious and poorer.
Schor is on to something plausible here. Starting as children, we compete to consume, and we keep upping the ante. From the enameled lunch boxes of the 1970's, children have traded up to two pairs of $150 Air Jordan sneakers, one white, one black. Meanwhile, parents are plotting to entomb themselves in trophy houses Schor calls McMansions, stuffed with computers, Jacuzzis and restaurant-grade stoves. What Schor sees is "a kind of mass 'overspending,' " by which she means that "large numbers of Americans spend more than they say they would like to. . . . That they spend more than they realize they are spending, and more than is fiscally prudent. And that they spend in ways that are collectively, if not individually, self-defeating."
Certainly, Schor's message and her inviting command of the language will strike a chord among many debt-laden middle-class readers. Her notion of reference-group competition, rooted in impressive polling and rigorous analysis, is an original contribution to understanding why people are so readily seduced by the temptation to buy. It is relevant to public policy, too, as she says, because our enormous spending harms all of us by depleting valuable resources.
But Schor's occasional caveats notwithstanding, she paints us too glibly as spineless sheep. While her case for competitive consumption is persuasive in explaining the behavior of some, many others buy these things because of the ways in which, over three centuries, we have built and organized our institutions for leisure and work. Thoreau didn't have an answering machine, but nor did he have to fend off telemarketers during dinner. The utopians got by without computers, but a contemporary child without access to a computer risks burial in the pit of the income gap that Schor rightly laments. We need more than reports of credit card debt and bankruptcy filings to declare that so many are becoming more profligate. Filings have climbed in part because of easier access to credit and the waning stigma of bankruptcy. And much consumer debt has nothing to do with buying things. In examining bankruptcy filings in Little Rock, Ark., last year, I found that a major cause was medical bills.
Further, Schor's new consumerism may soon become subsumed by a new investorism. The big baby boom generation, of which Schor takes little account, has spurred much of the rise in spending by simply acting its age. For two decades baby boomers have been starting families and buying and furnishing homes. Now they're starting to grapple with college tuitions and investing for retirement, and individual retirement accounts and 401K plans have been driving up the stock market.
Like any good critic, Schor proposes remedies for our excesses. But here she relies on anecdotes and the wishful idealism that blooms in the aeries of academia. She thinks she has spotted an encouraging phenomenon among people "downshifting" to lower-paid, less demanding jobs and curbing their appetites for "commodified leisure." This is hardly new. At the nadir of every recession, business pages fill up with stories of belt-tightening families who move to Vermont and buy their food in bulk.
Some of the downshifters Schor portrays border on the absurd. Rich Moroni was earning $20,000 a year as a cook and was chagrined to discover that he couldn't keep up with the style of life and spending of his preferred reference group -- the lawyers and executives who shared his passion for squash and belonged to the same health club. "Here I am," he tells Schor, "around a lot of very motivated upper-middle-class people, and I was thinking, am I ever going to get there or not?" Rich woke up, downshifted and quit the club.
In her final chapter, titled "Learning Diderot's Lesson: Stopping the Upward Creep of Desire," Schor moves from downshifting to community action. But she downshifts the reader, too, to the level of children. Don't "become ashamed" of our unremodeled kitchens, she counsels. "Organizing a clothing swap among your friends," she suggests, "is a perfect opportunity for an initial discussion about spending on clothes." Then she takes on that symbol of all symbols of excess and waste -- the riding lawn mower: "What if you and a dozen of the families on the street got together and bought a couple of mowers for everyone's use? Call it a product 'library.' "
Now really. West of the postage-stamp lawns of Cambridge, Mass., riding mowers are as entrenched as the church supper. The riding-mower race is the high point of many a town's Fourth of July. She could at least get a discussion going and maybe the grass cut, too, by proposing a rideable, four-legged community goat.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: OVERSPENT AMERICAN, THE (BOOK)

TICKER: WAG (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS446110 PHARMACIES AND DRUG STORES (57%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

COMPANY: WALGREEN CO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERATURE (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); EXECUTIVES (62%); RESTAURANTS (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (55%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T; SCHOR, JULIET B TOMMY HILFIGER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



497 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 12; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1917 words

HEADLINE: Enough Blame to Go Around

BYLINE: By Alan Wolfe; Alan Wolfe's most recent book is "One Nation, After All."

 BODY:

Someone Else's House
 America's Unfinished Struggle
 for Integration.
 By Tamar Jacoby.
 Illustrated. 614 pp. New York:
 The Free Press. $30. 
 Despite calls from the White House for a national conversation on race, the truth is that Americans have been conversing intensely about race since at least the early 1960's. Aroused by the moral dignity of the civil rights movement, spurred by urban rioting, undecided whether integration was a problem or a cure, Americans pondered the implications of the 1968 Kerner Commission report, reacted to the anger of a James Baldwin or a Malcolm X, debated the wisdom of affirmative action, welcomed the celebrity status of Bill Cosby and Oprah Winfrey and worried about deeply entrenched poverty among inner-city African-Americans. Compared with tariffs or antitrust policy, race has been at the center of domestic politics for over 30 years.
The problem with this continuing conversation has never been that we lacked things to say. The problem has been that so many people said the same thing. Racism, according to a widely held liberal consensus, was not eliminated when Jim Crow fell; it merely changed its form -- and its geographic location. The view was that persistent resistance to school and workplace integration in the North required something more than moral exhortation, something like affirmative action. But once confronted with policies and practices that might actually work, this account concluded, white Americans showed their true colors by resisting them. The United States remains, in the words popularized by Andrew Hacker, "two nations," divided by race in everything they say and do.
Dissenters from this consensus have always existed, but many of them were either conservatives unable to overcome the stigma of their opposition to the Civil Rights Act of 1964 or individuals whose incendiary language seemed to suggest a belief in white racial superiority. In the past few years, however, there has emerged a challenge to the liberal consensus among liberals (or former liberals), including Orlando Patterson, Fred Siegel, Jim Sleeper and Stephan and Abigail Thernstrom. While their work differs in methodology and conclusions, they are united on two important points. One is that whites have not resisted demands for racial justice but have accepted tremendous progress in race relations. The other is that those who claim to speak in the name of African-Americans do not always serve the interests of those for whom they supposedly speak. With the publication of "Someone Else's House," this new racial realism receives its best-written and most emotionally powerful treatment. But readers should be warned: Tamar Jacoby is so unsparing in her judgments that she ends up undermining the ideal of racial integration that she seeks to promote.
Jacoby, a freelance journalist writing in the tradition of J. Anthony Lukas and Nicholas Lemann, focuses on three cities: New York, marked by bitter conflicts between blacks and Jews; Detroit, which witnessed the most extensive white flight of any American city; and Atlanta, often heralded as a model of progressive race relations in the New South. The tale of each town is a tale of woe.
As Jacoby tells the story, New York's experiences with race show the damage that can be done when powerful white liberals, in the name of racial justice, refuse to condemn, and desperately continue to support, black activists whose message is filled with hate, whose actions are irresponsible and whose financial practices are often corrupt. McGeorge Bundy, who became president of the Ford Foundation in the mid-1960's, comes off in Jacoby's account as an upper-class Leninist. Persuaded that he knew best what New York needed -- "The idea," he said during his first few months on the job, "is to do things society is going to want after it has them" -- Bundy was apparently unperturbed by the social chaos he unleashed by sponsoring community control of New York City's schools. "You can't expect effort-free social revolution," this architect of counterrevolution in Vietnam pointed out.
Jacoby holds nothing back in her criticism of black militants: Rhody McCoy, Milton Galamison and, especially, Sonny Carson. She portrays the last of these men as a power-hungry psycho-terrorist. Carson would call Barry Gottehrer, an aide to Mayor John Lindsay, in the middle of the night to summon him to meetings with no purpose. He smashed a reporter's camera in front of Gottehrer, perhaps to see if the Mayor's assistant would protest. (He did not.) Worst of all, according to Jacoby, the furor over community control unleashed "a generation of 'little Sonny Carsons' irrevocably alienated from the white mainstream" -- including Al Sharpton, an impressionable teen-ager at the time, who learned from the Ocean Hill-Brownsville demonstrations that, in his own words, "confrontation works."
If New York presents the spectacle of white political leadership manipulated by black demagogues, Detroit, in Jacoby's treatment, was governed by a black demagogue from the moment Coleman Young was elected Mayor. As in New York, however, the damage to integration was biracial in nature, for Young, in his campaign to destroy Detroit in the name of saving it for black people, had plenty of help from myopic whites. Automobile executives were, Jacoby writes, willing to fork over millions "in thinly disguised riot insurance."
But the most irresponsible white leader in Detroit -- and perhaps in the whole country -- was a relatively obscure district court judge named Stephen Roth. Roth was responsible for the decision to order busing between inner-city Detroit and the surrounding suburbs. His ambitious plan would touch on the lives of 780,000 children living in 53 suburbs. Many would be bused for as much as an hour and a half each day. "The most intimate personal routines seemed to be hanging on one man's whimsy," Jacoby writes. With Coleman Young doing everything in his power to encourage whites to leave Detroit, and with Roth's decision forcing them to move to the outermost suburbs, it was not long before Detroit became one of the blackest cities in the United States -- and its suburbs among the whitest.
Everyone had high hopes for Atlanta, the city too rich and too busy to hate. Yet according to Jacoby, hatred there was -- aplenty. Black Atlantans blamed whites for the disappearance and deaths of 29 black children in the late 1970's and early 80's, only to lose interest in the case -- and, she argues, in the children as well -- when the murderer was discovered to be black. Indeed, the head of the parents' committee, convinced that the murderer was framed by a white conspiracy, said that "with this conviction, Wayne Williams, at 23, became the 30th victim of the Atlanta slayings."
Jacoby spends the bulk of her Atlanta chapters on construction and real estate deals, the stuff of local politics in the city's booming economy. Here, in her view, was affirmative action taken to its ultimate absurdity. Mayor Maynard Jackson's insistence that a high percentage of all contracts go to blacks worked to benefit a few already well-off black businessmen, not the bulk of Atlanta's minority community. White contractors would cynically go out and find a black name to put on their letterhead and continue to do business as usual. Atlanta tried to "shortcut the normal building up of a business class," Jacoby writes, adding that "it would have been hard to invent a scheme that did more to mock the dignity of the blacks involved."
Race coding also poisoned Atlanta's politics. Even as honorable a politician as Andrew Young found himself squeezed between blacks insistent on a slice of the action and whites resistant to black leadership. "Race relations?" Jacoby quotes an unidentified supporter of racial integration as saying. "We don't have race relations in Atlanta anymore."
From her moral tales, Jacoby suggests that the most important decisions Americans of all races have to make is whether integration is really what they want. Should they decide it is, they will then have to face up to its heavy responsibilities. Integration cannot take place without acculturation, which "is a long, slow process -- one that will require a kind of patience till now largely lacking on race matters." It will also require local black and white cooperation, more effective and responsible leadership and a retreat from color coding, none of them easy to bring about. Jacoby's contribution to our national conversation on race is a sharp admonition for everyone to just grow up.
But will people listen? Jacoby's research is prodigious and her narrative compelling. Unlike the way guilty white liberals in her book dealt with blacks, she accords African-American leaders the ultimate respect: criticism when criticism is due. Yet she does not make it easy for those who need to hear what she says. For one thing, Jacoby's unrelenting portrayal of racial demagogy fails to distinguish sufficiently between the genuine scoundrels and the merely opportunistic. Atlanta's politics-as-usual are hardly the same stuff as New York City's flirtation with social revolution; neither Maynard Jackson nor even Jesse Jackson -- who managed to link the killing of black children in Atlanta with Ronald Reagan and opponents of affirmative action -- is the moral equivalent of Sonny Carson.
A realist about race and politics, Jacoby nonetheless fails to ask what alternatives existed in Atlanta. The option of a long-term strategy for black economic development was not on the agenda there. What did exist was a choice between a building boom that would be all white and one that would, in the usual style of urban politics, broaden the claimants upon the public purse. Which is to say that for a black mayor, this was no choice at all. Jacoby's relentless negativity does not serve her well. To be sure, tensions between the races are strong in Atlanta. Yet Atlanta has also seen the most rapid growth of a black suburban middle class of any city in the country. Here is where the racial realists can cite proof for the thesis that race relations have dramatically improved in a relatively short period of time. By rarely acknowledging the good, Jacoby takes the sting out of the bad.
One of the great contributions made by America's racial realists is their insistence that real progress between the races has taken place in America. This, of course, is anathema to those pessimists convinced that whites will never accept blacks as full members of American society. Jacoby, who does not share the views of the pessimists, oddly shares their mood, only she attributes the failure of integration as much to black leaders as to white racists. To be sure, Jacoby professes her faith in integration, but the stories she tells, and the way she tells them, make her book seem at times to be the mirror image of works of black rage.
Her account would be a more persuasive treatment of blacks and whites if it were less black and white. Lost among the horror stories of the three cities whose history she tells is the fact that in each of those cities Americans of all races are intermingling with a frequency -- and with a willingness -- impossible as recently as the 1960's.
Jacoby is right to recall us to our faith in integration. Yet she is right to do so not because we have departed from integration's promise but because we have already achieved so many of its benefits.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SOMEONE ELSE'S HOUSE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); RIOTS (71%); CELEBRITIES (69%); LITERATURE (63%); WRITERS (63%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (54%); 

PERSON: WOLFE, ALAN; JACOBY, TAMAR OPRAH WINFREY (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



498 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 15; Page 12; Column 1; Women's Health 

LENGTH: 1703 words

HEADLINE: For Infertility Treatments, Now You're Covered, Now You're Not

BYLINE: By ANNE ADAMS LANG; Anne Adams Lang is a freelance journalist in New York who writes on politics and parenthood.

 BODY:
IT took Carla and Bruce P. three and a half gut-wrenching years of invasive medical treatments and more than $40,000 of their savings before Carla got pregnant in April. That makes them part of a small but growing population that beat what the New York State Task Force on Life and the Law recognizes as the "disease" of infertility.
Lucky? Indisputably. First because Carla, a legal assistant, and Bruce, a real-estate broker, succeeded when the biological odds are stacked against a 41-year-old woman conceiving even with high-tech intervention. Second because Carla's new insurance carrier, U.S. Healthcare, paid for the successful round of blood tests, sonograms, laboratory work, egg harvesting, in-vitro fertilization and implanting the resulting embryos. All this was performed by one of New York City's top reproductive medical teams, which was led by Dr. Cecilia Schmidt-Sarosi and her husband, Dr. Peter Sarosi, reproductive endocrinologists. 
 That insurance policy saved Carla and Bruce, who do not want their last name published, roughly $10,000 that they would have paid themselves if they had approached the managed-care company just one month later. On April 1, U.S. Healthcare, now merged with Aetna, canceled its coverage of in-vitro fertilization and other high-tech fertility treatments, making it available to employers only through a rider. "Because we were one of the few programs covering IVF, women flocked to us who could not find coverage elsewhere," said Jill Griffiths, a spokeswoman for Aetna Healthcare. The policy, she said, was simply too expensive to continue.
"We contacted them in March and when I read that the company had stopped the policy, my heart just dropped," Bruce said. "But we lucked out. We got coverage on a shoestring, and we just got in under the wire."
Insurance carriers are mostly like poltergeists haunting the field of reproductive medicine. They materialize with ephemeral policies that are changed or are withdrawn in a flash. Only about two weeks ago, for example, Group Health Insurance, one of the largest carriers in New York, announced that it is withdrawing its coverage for all assisted reproductive technology.
"Unless they operate in states with mandates to cover infertility treatments, such as Massachusetts, Illinois and Maryland, managed-care and indemnity insurers have ignored fertility coverage and gotten away with it," said Dr. Norbert Gleicher, who founded the Center for Human Reproduction, a Chicago-based chain of fertility treatment centers. "That's imminently about to change."
Dr. Gleicher, who recently contracted with Oxford Health Plans to do a joint venture with Columbia University, gave three reasons for the new interest in fertility coverage:
* Viagra. The White House decision to require Medicaid coverage of the drug that treats male sexual dysfunction, and mounting pressure on private insurance companies to do the same, has opened the floodgates to sexual-discrimination suits. "Once insurance companies conclude they have to cover Viagra, how can they not cover female infertility drugs?" Dr. Gleicher asked.
* Legal precedent. A police officer sued the city of Chicago for violating the Americans With Disabilities Act, saying infertility is a disability. "A disability is an impairment of a body system that inhibits a major life activity," said Patricia Collins, the lawyer who won the class-action suit this year. "The only question is whether procreation is a major life activity. My position is, if work is a major life activity, I would hope procreation is as well." Judge Susan B. Conlon agreed and the city settled, saying it would follow Illinois's guidelines.
* Economics. "Smart insurance companies are recognizing that it may be in their interest to cover, even to a limited extent, infertility because it brings an underground economy in fertility services above ground," Dr. Gleicher said. He explained that doctors often perform infertility treatments, like tubal surgeries, and list them as a different, often more costly procedure so that patients can secure coverage.
In a study to be published in September, William M. Mercer, a firm of human-resource consultants, concludes that the hidden costs of infertility treatments range from 27 cents to 50 cents a month for each member of the insurance plan. "Depending on co-pay arrangements and how well the plans are managed, it would cost in the neighborhood of 40 cents to 50 cents to provide coverage," said Lisa Astor, a consultant at Mercer. "Our thoughts are that employers are already paying for infertility whether they know it or not."
There is also a wave of consumer anger over the right to reproduce that threatens to engulf lawmakers in several states, including New York. Assemblyman David S. Sidikman has introduced a bill that would require insurers to cover the diagnosis and treatment of infertility. State Senator Seymour Lachman recently introduced a similar bill.
"People who make $250,000 a year are the ones swinging the out-of-pocket costs for assisted reproduction," said Pamela Madsen, the executive director of the New York chapter of Resolve, a support and advocacy group for infertile individuals. "Maybe they have to give up the vacation. The more middle class are giving up their homes, and the working poor are out of it altogether."
MRS. MADSEN and her husband gave birth to two children using IVF and, she said: "I have four embryos at Mount Sinai waiting for me in the freezer that I can't access. I'm tapped out, mortgaged out, credit-carded out. And we were lucky. We got our babies. We still live in a one-bedroom apartment. We had a nest egg when we got married; we had health insurance, and the system wasn't there for us. We are the norm."
Even without legislation forcing coverage, assisted-reproduction technology specialists are gearing up for change. "We're seeing more and more patients going to centers, which increases the volume and lowers the price," said Dr. Mark Sauer, the director of Columbia University's division of reproductive endocrinology. "Corporate groups, for-profit groups and H.M.O.'s are learning to split the heavy overhead of a university program like research, and streamline certain operations."
Managed care, Dr. Sauer said, could act as a great leveler, making fertility treatments "possible for people without the kind of resources to go to a fee-for-service boutique practice."
Dr. James Grifo, the head of New York University Medical Center's division of reproductive endocrinology, said his group is negotiating, albeit reluctantly, with a managed-care company. "We would prefer to control our own fate," he said. The problem is that large institutions like universities have less seed capital. "It's more onerous for them to start and support these kinds of programs," Dr. Grifo said.
Economic pressure has whittled the number of large academic medical institutions where new reproductive technologies are incubated. The many that remain need high volume, said Dr. Zev Rosenwaks, a professor of obstetrics and gynecology and the director of the New York Center for Reproductive Medicine and Infertility at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.
"We have over 100 staffers," Dr. Rosenwaks said. "You cannot run a program that's a good program, that has full research and all aspects of lab work without having a critical mass of patients."
THE Cornell program has grown to 750 patients a year from approximately 250 patients in 1988 to 1989. "We're constantly re-evaluating the costs," Dr. Rosenwaks added, while trying to accommodate a changing economic environment. That requires market savvy, which means, he said, being patient-friendly, including securing insurance coverage for IVF.
By contrast, Dr. Schmidt-Sarosi, noting that small can be profitable, said that a successful fertility clinic doesn't need the "heavy machinery of an academic setting."
"What do I need an academic telling me how to run my clinic?" said Dr. Schmidt-Sarosi, who recently left the clinical practice at New York University to open her own practice. "Our prices are competitive and lower. I don't have the overhead of hospitals. Those of us who practice look at what is the out-of-pocket cost. We streamline, so that if a patient is going to use drugs, we do IVF faster. It's more efficient."
As for managed care, she said it will probably bring down IVF costs to $5,000 per ovulation cycle from $10,000. That could lead her to consider joining a network of small, high-quality clinics to negotiate with good insurance companies.
Other practitioners have devised a kind of money-back guarantee approach to lowering costs. At the Shady Grove Fertility Center in Rockville, Md., for example, patients pay $18,000 up front for three full IVF cycles. Embryos are frozen and transferred without additional charges. If a patient doesn't take home a baby, the money, minus a deductible of $1,250 per cycle, is returned. "Then you still have money for adoption," said Dr. Michael Levy, a founder.
Diane Aronson, the executive director of Resolve, warns that such programs could be an incentive for doctors to implant more embryos than is medically sound, to maximize the chances of pregnancy on the first round. Ms. Aronson is also concerned about the possibility of unscrupulous clinic administrators practicing a bait-and-switch in which they lure patients with the promise of a money-back guarantee only to tell them that they don't qualify for that particular program.
Defending his practice, Dr. Levy said that every program could potentially exploit the consumer. "In a fee-for-service, it's unnecessary procedures; in capitated policies with a monetary limit, it's not doing necessary procedures, and in shared risk, it's by treating patients differently than you would treat others," he said. "When we looked at our data on shared risk, we analyzed whether we transferred more embryos, and we put back exactly the same number in fee-for-service."
He added: "I'd be very happy if there was no need for shared risk. In France, where it's covered, they do five times the amount of IVF as we do. There's a lot of politics hidden in this issue."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Cecilia Schmidt-Sarosi finds it is more cost-effective to run her own infertility practice, without the overhead of a hospital. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: AETNA INC (71%); AETNA HEALTHCARE (73%); NEW YORK STATE TASK FORCE (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: AETNA HEALTHCARE (73%); NEW YORK STATE TASK FORCE (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: REPRODUCTION (BIOLOGICAL); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); HEALTH INSURANCE; INFERTILITY REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (92%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (90%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (90%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); MEDICAL ULTRASOUND (78%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (74%); INSURANCE POLICIES (74%); SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (73%); MEN'S HEALTH (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); ENDOCRINOLOGY (67%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (66%); 

PERSON: LANG, ANNE ADAMS MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



499 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 15; Page 24; Column 1; Women's Health 

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: Why Baked Catfish Holds Lessons for Their Hearts

BYLINE: By FRANCES FRANK MARCUS; Frances Frank Marcus contributes to The New York Times from New Orleans.

DATELINE: UNIONTOWN, Ala.

 BODY:
DEEP in fried-catfish country, the meat bins of a small town's grocery store can be a nutritionist's bad dream. Browse the shelves: along with the ingredients for Southern staples like corn bread and fried chicken stretches a range of pig parts from head to foot, including brains and fatty ham hocks and tails. Pork chitlins for frying are available in 10-pound buckets; fatback by the slab. Fatty beef parts are popular, too. Lard flies off the shelves in eight-pound cans.
It is not surprising that heart disease, high-blood pressure, diabetes and obesity are common here. The diet dates to pre-Civil War days. The ancestors of many residents were slaves on Alabama's cotton plantations. For the town's 1,730 residents, there are three doctors, no hospitals, no ambulances, no 911 service. The population is 79 percent African-American; the jobless rate is edging toward 14 percent. The median family income is $12,469. 
 Uniontown, therefore, seems an unlikely place for a pioneering women's health study. But for a year and a half, academic researchers have been teaching women here how to stay well by changing their behavior: by exercising more, not smoking and doing the unthinkable -- banishing collard greens smothered in fatback and other traditional, high-fat favorites in the rural South. The study is focusing on prevention of cardiovascular disease, the nation's major killer of men and women, although research scientists and health professionals say most women view heart disease as a malady that primarily threatens men.
"Cardiovascular disease continues as the leading cause of death for women in the United States," said Dr. Carol Cornell, an assistant professor in the behavioral medicine unit at the University of Alabama, Birmingham, and the principal investigator for the study. "It kills almost twice as many women as all cancers combined."
African-American women are at particular risk, Dr. Cornell said, noting, "They are more likely to be overweight and less likely to engage in physical exercise."
A key part of the study is the program's instructors, who actually live here, acting like cheerleaders for good health. It is a carefully chosen team of 10 women as well as a teen-age girl and boy, who are viewed in the town as "natural helpers." These team members have been designated as community health advisers. They run the cooking, exercise and smoking-cessation clubs, which focus on disease prevention among African-American women age 40 and older but are not limited to them.
Using the leaders of a community to instill good health habits in low-income regions is "very appropriate," said Dr. Anuradha Rao, a cardiologist who directs the women's heart program at Tulane University Medical Center, in New Orleans. Tulane and Xavier University, also in New Orleans, are starting a similar project next month in one of the city's public housing sites.
Uniontown was chosen partly because its leading politician, State Representative Andrew Hayden, pushed for it. The study, to cost $2 million over five years, is part of a program sponsored by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, with financing coming from the National Institutes of Health and its Women's Health Initiative.
In early May, the big question was whether low-fat catfish would please everyone at a supper in the Uniontown recreation center, one of a series showcasing revered family recipes purged of their sins by two Auburn University nutritionists.
In a predinner interview, the project's community coordinator, Mary Slater, a retired Uniontown high-school teacher, said good habits have already become a permanent idea among many people here. About 70 people participate as cooks and tasters in the nutrition program, and 75 to 100 people now exercise regularly. Fifteen to 20 people have shown up at the less-popular quit-smoking classes.
Except for three team members, who are Vista workers and therefore receive a small stipend, the community health advisers are unpaid. What they have gained instead is self-confidence.
"I tell the people who come here that this is our project," Ms. Slater said. At a health fair last October, she and the advisers took their aerobics class to the streets, line-dancing in front of Uniontown's City Hall. "As you know," she said, "women have always carried the big end of the stick. Men look to us for everything, but they place us on a back burner."
Patricia L. Riley, the director of the C.D.C.'s prevention-research-center program, added, "It's amazing what's happened in a community like this that's so rural and so resource-bereft." She was referring to the zest she sees for cooking classes and exercising.
"We're telling the community that to be healthy, you don't have to have gyms," Ms. Riley said. "We're building on community talent with women who are cooking for their children and passing on behavior patterns to their children and their children's children."
By late afternoon, Uniontown was hungry for catfish, which came from farm ponds nearby and was then cleaned and sliced at the town's big catfish plant. The supper menu was really born-again soul food. The low-fat, golden brown catfish had been baked with a sprinkling of lemon juice, garlic powder and parsley flakes. The country-style green beans were flavored with low-fat smoked turkey breast, not bathed in pork fat. The fudgy brownies were prepared with prune puree and egg whites.
Before digging in, the diners first had to ponder the nutritionists' sermon on the evils of fat, sodium and heaping helpings of sugar. "If you eat a dill pickle you eat a teaspoon of salt," intoned Barbara Struempler, a professor in the department of nutrition and food science at Auburn University. "Salt adds up very quickly. The average American eats eight and a half pounds a year."
The crowd of 60, many dressed in flowery print dresses and suits appropriate for the prayer meetings they would be attending later on, sat at a U-shaped dining table as Dr. Struempler and her colleague, Faye Hall Jones, recited a litany of virtuous eating for her largely female audience.
Supper began with a certain self-consciousness for the day of reckoning: was baked catfish palatable enough to compete with deliciously wicked fried? Does it have a future in rural Alabama, where iron skillets are handed down generation to generation?
The first reviews were respectful but not wildly enthusiastic. "I really enjoyed the baked catfish," Ira Dozier, a teacher and a project manager for a middle-school enrichment program, told a visitor after a brief deliberation. "I've never liked baked fish before. The brownies were, well, different. They tasted like Fig Newtons."
Ellen P. Jones, a retired teacher, said dubiously: "Baked fish is better because you don't get all that fat. But I don't know how my husband's going to like it." She was carrying home a covered plate of some fish for him to try.
EXPLAINING the recipe short cuts -- using garlic powder instead of fresh, for example -- Dr. Struempler told a visitor: "We've found out that these mothers and grandmothers don't like to cook anymore than anyone else. We're into quick and dirty techniques."
Her toughest fat-cutting job? "Corn bread -- it had to be changed four times to get a product that was tasty and had a good mouth feel." The most practical tool to get fat off the meat? Scissors, which Dr. Struempler has distributed liberally to cooking club members.
The next evening, 22 women were line-dancing at the Community Life Center, the project's headquarters, after a warm-up and some stretching and step aerobics. The night was steamy, the room not air-conditioned, but the women pressed on. Nearby, in an old ballpark, some Uniontownites strode around a track where a team of municipal and volunteer workers had cleared trash and repaired lights.
One exerciser, Winnie Marie Scott, who is the town's librarian, said: "I have arthritis, but I exercise anyway. You walk, you stretch, inhale, exhale and feel much better when it's over."
The study's full findings won't be known until the project is evaluated in the year 2000, but there are signs of progress.
Since Della Smith, an adviser, began line-dancing and eating less salt last year, her blood pressure has dropped from borderline high to low, 107 over 71. "Before, my walking was not regular at all," she said. "Now, when I'm in town, I park a few blocks away from the post office and walk."
Watching the crowd leaving the dining hall after the catfish meal, Dr. Struempler said: "To do a year and a half community project and still have this participation is overwhelming. Many of these intervention programs die a slow death. This one has been just the opposite. It has picked up." At the very least, a community dinner in Uniontown is a big social event.
Next on the agenda is this month's lower-fat food fair -- baked chicken, potato salad and fruity iced tea for 200, along with a drink developed at Tuskegee University made of sweet potatoes.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As part of a Federal study, a dinner was held at Uniontown's recreation center, where revered family recipes were purged of nutritional evils, and then put to a taste test. (Mike Clemmer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNIONTOWN (ALA); UNITED STATES (94%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: HEART; WOMEN; DIET AND NUTRITION; SMOKING AND TOBACCO; EXERCISE; BLACKS; SURVEYS AND SERIES NUTRITION (90%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CHOLESTEROL (90%); SMOKING (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); HEART DISEASE (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); WOMEN (88%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (77%); OILS & FATS (76%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (76%); CARDIOLOGY (75%); CANCER (75%); OBESITY (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); HYPERTENSION (70%); DIABETES (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (65%); SMOKING CESSATION (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (53%); 

PERSON: MARCUS, FRANCES FRANK

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



500 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 22; Column 2; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Word & Image;
Nuclear Reactions

BYLINE: By Max Frankel 

 BODY:
Much of my adult life, I have unwittingly encouraged the spread of atomic weapons. Like most American reporters and editors, I have been a mostly silent partner in my country's utopian but arrogant diplomacy to limit membership in the nuclear club. We have conferred special status and prestige on nations that know how to blow up the world and let American, British, Russian, Chinese and French officials strut importantly in international forums because they had the bomb. And yet we conspired in the pretense that other nations could not be trusted with atomic arsenals.
Now that India and Pakistan have made it unmistakable that they possess the bomb -- and have surely aroused bomb envy in other places -- it is time to give account for our folly. 
 For decades, the media have given universal support to the utopian project known as Nonproliferation, a treaty-bound hoarding of atomic weaponry by the self-appointed guardian nations. They are pledged to withhold nuclear-weapons secrets and fuels from all other nations and to press them to renounce all A-bomb ambition. The founding members have sat smugly inside the club; those outside at midcentury were to be forever excluded.
Fat chance, I fleetingly thought. While agitating to get other Governments to sign the global nonproliferation treaty, the nuclear nations never once thought of giving up their own atomic bombs. The treaty of 1968 promised "progress" to end atomic arms races "at an early date," but that was mere boilerplate. The haves were convinced from the start that their status in the world, if not also their safety, required an atomic arsenal, even as they lectured others to renounce the weapons for their own good. This message affronted human nature as well as logic, but nonetheless defined American policy.
And we in the media routinely endorsed the flimflammery. Even as we campaigned against every other kind of segregation and discrimination, we rarely questioned the perverse logic of nonproliferation: that exclusion was a benefit for the excluded.
Groucho Marx said the only clubs he wouldn't join were the ones that would have him, I once said to McGeorge Bundy, the national security adviser to Presidents Kennedy and Johnson. Don't you think most human beings pine to join the clubs from which they are barred?
You're absolutely right, Bundy replied. For the long run, it's an unnatural, untenable policy. But it's a delaying game. For now, the fewer the fingers on atomic triggers, the better off we are.
Despite their arguments for exclusivity, the founding members of the nuclear club demonstrated multiple motives for acquiring the bomb. The United States proved against Japan that a have-nation could knock out a have-not overnight and save a million infantry lives. The Russians, though impoverished at the end of World War II, proved that nuclear and thermonuclear weapons made their country an instant superpower. As Bundy later wrote in his history of the A-bomb, the British wanted their own bomb not as a response to military threat but out of an "almost instinctive" feeling that it would define their strength in a post-colonial age. The French built A-bombs to gain a vote in the club about their use, to match the British and to lord it over the Germans. And the Chinese barged in to challenge the "hegemonists" in Moscow and Washington.
Nonetheless, the United States and the American media proclaimed "nonproliferation" to be a virtue, and proliferation, open or secret, a vice. We deemed it natural that the C.I.A. should spy on every nation's laboratories. We cheered when Congress decreed economic punishment for nations caught building the bomb, whether they were foes like Iran, Iraq, South Africa, Libya and North Korea or friends like Argentina, Brazil, India and Pakistan.
Over the years, more than 40 nations acquired the reactors needed for nuclear research or power and probably a dozen acquired the fuels and know-how needed to stockpile explosive "devices" that could be quickly turned into bombs. Israel did that to protect itself in a sea of hostile neighbors but avoided sanctions by denying it had "a bomb." Pakistan started building atomic devices 25 years ago and India tested one in 1974, probably to impress China after a brief border war. There was thus no technological reason for India to ostentatiously test an A-bomb last month; like America and the Soviet Union of the Sputnik era, it used engineering prowess to raise the morale of its people and the stature of its politicians. Then Pakistan, a weaker rival, could do no less.
Among the advanced industrial nations, only Germany and Japan, the big losers in World War II, responded to international pressure and promised never to build atomic weapons. They chose, uniquely, to gain global respect by building economically strong societies. But even their restraint is unlikely to survive the atomic anarchy now unfolding.
As Americans, we should have insisted that "I've got mine, Jack" is not a formula for communal safety. Precisely because we give the world so much reason to admire our politics, our economics and our culture, it also desires our weaponry.
The most practical argument against proliferation is that mere possession of the bomb can never yield protection. True deterrence of an enemy requires an atomic force that can survive an attack and respond in kind. But as India and Pakistan are now proving, that will only intensify the quest for better missiles and extend their costly arms race.
If I and other observers had resisted the nuclear club's double standard and exposed its hollow assumptions about human nature, the world might by now have devised more effective international controls over atomic weapons. The have-nots might have been appeased if they had been given a major voice in a strong international inspection agency and the right to pry even into the monopolists' stockpiles -- including ours. Instead we have wasted the half century since Hiroshima and provoked a chain reaction that is truly prolific.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA NUCLEAR WEAPONS (97%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMS RACE (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); WORLD WAR II (71%); RACE & RACISM (69%); 

PERSON: FRANKEL, MAX JOHN F KENNEDY (52%); JOHN F KENNEDY (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



501 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 26; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 4307 words

HEADLINE: The Wei That Wasn't

BYLINE: By Philip Caputo; Philip Caputo is author, most recently, of "Exiles," a collection of novellas, and of "A Rumor of War," a Vietnam memoir.

 BODY:
He sniffs the cigarettes first, draws them lengthwise under his nose and then lights them one after the other, the smoke curling in the soft bronze light that flows through his west window. "River light," the novelist John Cheever called that luminescence peculiar to New York City mornings. It does seem to rise off the Hudson before it enters the room where Wei Jingsheng sits and talks about the regime that imprisoned him for all but a few months of the last 18 years, before releasing him into exile in November.
"The Chinese Communist Party is indeed the evil empire," he says, echoing President Reagan. "If the Soviet Union was the evil empire, then the Chinese Communist regime is an even greater one -- or at least a slyer one." 
 That's a reference to the recent scandals involving the satellite industry and campaign contributions by Chinese nationals to the Democratic Party. "The Chinese Government is continuously trying to spread its influence and build its strength," he says. "The Chinese Communists have always used these methods. Perhaps only now with this evidence will more Americans pay more attention to it, and to their schemes. It should serve as a very clear warning."
Under the circumstances, Wei says, President Clinton clearly should have canceled the trip he is scheduled to embark on this week. "I believe Clinton, under these conditions, should not go. Clinton has not said what he plans to say or do, so I feel that he won't stray from the path of the wishes of the Chinese Communists. If he doesn't say clearly what he will do, then I believe it is a mistake to go under these conditions.
"If he does finally appear at Tiananmen Square -- although I think that would be a major political mistake -- then he should state clearly his support for the struggle, his sympathy for those who were killed and injured and his commitment to pressing for the release of the democracy activists still in prison. If he doesn't do these things, then his appearance may damage his standing in the eyes of every single Chinese. He should not adhere to the conditions attached by the Communists."
The President's trip is a kind of benchmark for Wei, who, with Wang Dan, a leading figure in the 1989 Tiananmen Square uprising, shares billing as China's most famous dissident. Clinton's presence in China, surrounded by his beaming hosts, provides a platform that has been largely missing in Wei's seven months of exile. The attention could help him press his campaign against Clinton's policy of "engagement" and cement his position as the primary spokesman for the dissidents. But it could just as easily backfire, if his ideas are brushed aside or, as Beijing so fervently hopes, dismissed as irrelevant.
Certainly, Wei is not silent; his recorded message to a crowd of thousands in Hong Kong in early June -- commemorating the ninth anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre -- made headlines around the world. But the questions linger: How many are listening? Whom does he speak for? And not just in the West, but in China as well. More immediately, did Wei make the right decision when he relented and accepted Beijing's offer of exile?
To most people, there would have been no choice whatsoever: whether to remain in prison or to accept an offer of medical parole and exile. But Wei is not like most people.
If he were, he never would have been imprisoned in the first place, for the crime of speaking his mind. He never would have endured, merely for refusing to recant his belief in democracy, solitary confinement in a cell where a bright light burned 24 hours a day, frequent beatings from other inmates and conditions so abysmal that he lost a dozen teeth and contracted high blood pressure, heart disease, arthritis and hepatitis during his two separate incarcerations.
In 1995, at the beginning of his second prison term, he was made an offer that few thought he could refuse: he would be freed if he accepted exile in the United States. He had become an international cause celebre, and the regime of President Jiang Zemin wanted to be rid of him. He had written, besides his incendiary public essays, impertinent (and often humorous) letters to Deng Xiaoping, China's late paramount leader, and was now making Jiang his new pen pal.
Execution was one option, but Wei was too famous to be dealt with so crudely. China wanted trade with the West, and international respectability. Clearly, the only thing to do with Wei was to export him. But he declined the offer, not once but twice.
"Wei didn't want to leave China because by being there, he would be a player," explains Philip Cunningham, a journalist and China scholar who edited a collection of Wei's prison letters to Deng and Jiang. "He wanted to be there even in jail rather than free in exile because the danger of exile is that you become irrelevant." But last fall, Wei finally accepted banishment. On Nov. 16, 1997, he was released from prison, taken to a Northwest Airlines plane in Beijing and flown to the United States.
What made him change his stand? We are in the small but comfortable apartment he occupies at Columbia University, where he is a visiting scholar. He is a stocky man of about 5 feet 8 or 9 inches, 48 years old, with a full head of black hair. There is no hint of gray. His youthful, robust appearance is miraculous, considering what he has been through.
"Two reasons," he answers through an interpreter. "My health was quickly deteriorating. So I had two choices. One was to leave the country, the other to die in prison. I felt there was no reason for me to die in prison for no worthy cause."
Wei slips another Marlboro out of the pack and lights up. "The second, which is more important, is that in recent years, the position of the Western countries toward the Chinese Communist Party has been softening, which has dealt a blow to the confidence of the Chinese people. It is important for me to come out and tell Western Governments the real situation, the realities in China and what effective roles they can play, and also to convey what the Chinese people would really like to say to the people of the Western countries."
That ought to be enough to keep 10 men busy. But after some thought, Wei gives me a third reason: he hopes to coordinate the activities of pro-democracy dissidents abroad. In effect, he would become the leader of the dissident movement, which could be far more difficult than persuading Western Governments to amend their China policies. The 500 or so active dissidents in this country are hopelessly fragmented by petty squabbles, jealousies and differences in opinion about how best to deal with Beijing.
It's a difficult agenda for a man who has little support other than his name and the enormous respect and good will it commands. Columbia provides Wei with an office and clerical assistance, but he does not teach or lecture on a regular basis. Rising at 9 A.M., he usually works late into the night, conferring with other dissidents.
Wei is determined not to retire to the scholar's cloister, as many other exiled dissidents have done. And yet, looking at him, dressed in slippers, a beige cotton shirt and gray trousers held up by black suspenders, his legs folded on a threadbare couch as he sips tea and smokes and smokes, it is hard to picture him maneuvering in the corridors of power.
He has tried, but to little effect. This winter, he traveled to London, Paris and Brussels, where he lobbied the European Union to ratify a United Nations resolution condemning China's human rights record. In the spring, after the 15-nation European Union voted not even to introduce the resolution, much less to pass it, Wei embarked on a 12-nation, seven-week tour of European capitals, calling on foreign secretaries and members of parliament to explain their decision.
He fared no better with the Clinton Administration, which in a reversal of longstanding policy, also withdrew support for the resolution this year. And now, in a further disappointment, President Clinton is off to China.
To Wei, there is no compromise with Beijing, no engagement and no partnership. "Clinton has an opportunity. I want him to make his support for human rights and democracy clear. If he does not do this, then he will not help the movement and he will not help the standing of himself and the United States in the eyes of the Chinese people. I think that Clinton's use of the word 'partnership' is completely wrong, since the Chinese Communists use the word 'enemy' in describing the United States. I don't think the American people want a partner like the Chinese Communists."
When Wei speaks, his baritone barely changes inflection and, whatever may be going on inside him, he gives an outward impression of serenity. Yet the position he has staked out for himself is nearly impossible. Here is a man without a political party or power of any kind beyond the moral authority vouchsafed by his sufferings, appointing himself roving ambassador for one-fifth of the world's population, trying to shape American foreign policy. I wonder if I'm in the presence of a Chinese Don Quixote, or a man who could become to China what Vaclav Havel is to the Czech Republic or Nelson Mandela is to South Africa.
There is a certain purity about Wei, but it's hard to tell sometimes if it is the purity of an egomaniac or a saint. Others have commented on Wei's saintly qualities: his lack of bitterness, his heroic readiness to sacrifice himself on the altar of principle, his unflagging composure. But in time, I realize that Wei is neither saint nor egomaniac. He is a man of integrity -- integrity in its fundamental meaning: he is united within himself. God knows, he had plenty of time, in the isolation of his cell, to think things through. He has emerged as a man with a seamless confidence in himself and in the truth of his ideas.
Wei has hundreds, if not thousands, of admirers and supporters in the West. Among many Chinese dissidents, he is an icon. Even those who disagree with his views on China are in awe of his courage and his ability to write and argue in clear, direct, forceful language.
But will that be enough? Now that Wei is out of prison and no longer a myth, there are dissidents as well as Western diplomats and scholars who think that his ideas are outdated and that Wei himself, though unquestionably a hero, is a hero from a bygone era. They question whether he is the right candidate to lead the dissident movement and to convey realities in China to Western leaders. They say that Wei, having been isolated for so long, clings to views and rhetoric frozen in the amber of the cold war.
"The more Wei speaks out, the more he reveals that he doesn't know the current situation," says Merle Goldman, a professor of Chinese history at Boston University and an expert on the dissident movement. "Through no fault of his own -- he was in prison for all but a few months of the last 18 years -- he has no clear idea what is going on in China or abroad."
The China of the 1990's is not the China of the 1970's under Mao, she notes. A rudimentary democracy has taken hold at the village level, where elections have been held this year. Although open dissent is still prohibited, citizens privately criticize the Government in ways that would have been unthinkable 25 years ago. It is a much more prosperous and at least somewhat freer country. When I mention to her that Wei has said that "millions of workers and peasants in China are truly starving," she exclaims, "That's not true!" and adds that Wei's penchant for injudicious comments like that could undermine his credibility.
Wei's defenders say it's too early to judge him, after only a little more than seven months in exile. "We're honoring him for his courage, not necessarily because he's an astute politician," says Robert Bernstein, the founding chairman of Human Rights Watch. "We don't know about that yet. Wei has sacrificed for his ideas and deserves a chance. Besides, it never hurts to put pressure on the regime."
Chen Xiaoping, a 36-year-old former journalist and law professor now studying at Harvard, was forced to leave China because of his pro-democracy activities. He says the youngest dissidents -- of whom Wang Dan is the most prominent -- almost literally don't understand the language that Wei speaks. When Wei gave a talk at Harvard, Chen says, "Some students asked him: 'Where are you coming from? This is traditional, not modern discourse.' He was talking like somebody from the Cultural Revolution.
"Wei is too old," Chen adds flatly. "In jail for 18 years, and because he was in prison for such a long time, he cannot understand the modern China."
The obvious implication is that the 29-year-old Wang, who was serving an 11-year sentence when released to American doctors this spring, understands China better -- the China, that is, of young entrepreneurs bearing cell phones instead of Mao's little red book. Wang's opinion on Clinton's visit does seem to be more nuanced than Wei's. "I feel extremely uncomfortable when I think about President Clinton walking on Tiananmen Square," Wang says. "But I understand that United States policy toward China should represent the interests of the American people. I just hope it also represents the moral standards of the American people."
Aware of the force his words carry in the dissident community, Wang, who is spending the summer at Harvard, adds diplomatically: "Both Mr. Wei Jingsheng and I believe that to promote a peaceful transformation toward democracy in China, international influence is crucial."
Almost no one disagrees with Wei's objectives: building a China where people aren't arrested without charges and tortured in prison, where workers trying to organize independent labor unions aren't crushed and freedom of speech and expression are not repressed.
Besides, as Bernstein points out, it's not as though the younger dissidents are accomplishing any more than Wei. "They aren't getting results, either," he says. "Of course there's more economic freedom. Of course the party is giving ground politically -- it has no choice."
The difference between Wei and his loyal critics is in figuring out how to get there from here. For Wei, the correct approach -- the only approach -- is to get tough. But this does not mean the complete suspension of relations, says Xiao Qiang of the organization Human Rights in China. "We don't want to fall into the trap of isolation versus engagement," he says. "We want a strong and effective human rights policy, on an equal footing with trade and security policy."
Wei puts it more succinctly. Dealing with China, he says, is like dealing with a "scoundrel on the street": the nicer you are, the more likely you are to get mugged.
Wei's history is a history of fighting dragons. He was born in 1950 in Beijing, where his father was a high-level official in the foreign ministry while his mother was a party cadre in a shoe-and-hat factory. A self-described "fanatical Maoist" as a teen-ager, he graduated in 1966 from a top high school reserved for party higher-ups and went into the countryside as a Red Guard during the tumultuous Cultural Revolution. But the stunning poverty he saw, and the unspeakable horrors wrought by Mao's policies -- like a village so ravaged by starvation that people sold their dying infants as food -- led him to condemn the Great Helmsman.
Wei gained international fame with the publication of his classic essay, "The Fifth Modernization: Democracy." Posted on the Democracy Wall in Beijing on Dec. 5, 1978, the essay exploded the myth that Deng Xiaoping's "four modernizations" -- radical economic reforms that excluded any political change -- would improve the lot of the masses. Wei argued that without true democracy all promises of a better life for China would remain just that.
Later, in another essay, "Do We Want Democracy or New Autocracy," he dared to attack Deng by name. Within a week, he was arrested, and then was sentenced to the first of his prison terms. Though he'd been held incommunicado, he remained defiant at his trial. Refusing to repudiate his criticisms, he proved himself to be not the passive victim of an authoritarian state but an agent of history, the author of his own tragic destiny.
Orville Schell, a China scholar at Berkeley and a strong Wei supporter, portrays him as both militant and ascetic, a kind of warrior monk who "stripped himself bare" of material possessions and emotional attachments so he could wage his lonely battle with despots unencumbered.
My own impression is of a solitary existential rebel straight out of the pages of Camus. Martyr, warrior-monk, existential rebel, I can hear all three incarnations speaking to me in the Manhattan apartment as he tells me that Clinton should demand greater democratization from Jiang's Government as a quid pro quo for a greater share of the American market.
So far, he says, the only beneficiaries of United States-China trade have been a few large corporations -- and Jiang's regime. The profits reaped by companies like Boeing and Motorola, as well as from European enterprises in China, have strengthened Beijing's hand and emboldened it to stifle all political opposition. "It's these corporations coming to China and cooperating closely with the Chinese Communist Party that has created a very bad image among the Chinese people of the U.S., of the American people, who they think care only about money and don't care about democracy and human rights."
Proponents of engagement contend that modernization is creating a middle and professional class that could eventually form the nucleus of a political opposition, and that a take-no-prisoners policy would isolate China and prove counterproductive. The examples of North Korea, Iraq, Libya and Cuba suggest that isolation, embargo, military action and other hardball tactics tend to perpetuate dictatorships rather than eliminate them.
But Wei finds his critics' arguments lacking in substance. Rather than re-examine his thinking, they should "re-examine their thinking," he says. "I don't believe my thinking at any point over the past 20 years has once been outdated. But I ask, What evidence is there to support their new thinking? Is the new thinking to cozy up to the Chinese Communist Government and turn away from their behavior? Where has that gotten us?"
Each year, gathering around a polished oval table in the Art Nouveau meeting room of the Norwegian Nobel Institute in Oslo, five members of the Nobel committee decide who will be the recipient of its Peace Prize. The award is given to pioneers of organized peace work, politicians and, in recent times, to human rights advocates. Wei has been nominated for the prize four years in a row, the last two years in concert with Wang Dan.
"Wei has stood up in the finest traditions of an Andrei Sakharov," Schell says. "All alone, he has stood against the gale force of a very powerful and intimidating state with dignity and intellectual clarity."
Former laureates like Oscar Arias Sanchez, Elie Wiesel and the Dalai Lama, American legislators like Jesse Helms and Nancy Pelosi, a Democratic representative from California, and several hundred professors from around the world have signed on to Wei's nomination.
In its glossy official booklet, the Nobel Institute makes it clear that well-organized campaigns have little influence on the committee's decisions and "may in fact be counterproductive." Thus, the effort to promote Wei's candidacy is almost by design low key and ad hoc.
The Chinese Government, meanwhile, has been doing what it can to undermine the nomination. Its campaign is also low key, for if the committee frowns at stumping for a particular candidate, attempts to knock a candidate out of the running really make it bristle.
But it is no secret that one of the last things President Jiang wants to see on CNN this December is Wei Jingsheng marching side by side with Wang Dan into the Oslo Town Hall to make a laureate's speech. Such a scene would represent several dangers for the Chinese Communist Party. For one, the prize could enhance Wei's already considerable stature, turning him into a giant around whom the fragmented dissident movement abroad might finally rally and unite. Pelosi notes that the prize would also encourage dissidents inside China.
Finally, there is the danger to China's pride.
The Nobel Prize sounds prestigious to people in China," says Xiao Qiang, of Human Rights in China. The 36-year-old former astrophysicist, who turned dissident after the Tiananmen Square crackdown, notes that no citizen of the People's Republic of China has ever won a Nobel in any category. It would be a symbolic blow to Jiang and his Government if the first were to be shared by two dissidents who had spent years in jail.
This perception has led to speculation that the regime has taken advantage of the fissures and jealousies within the democracy movement and recruited dissidents to discredit Wei and derail his nomination. Last year, a prominent dissident in China, Ren Wanding, sent an open letter to the Nobel committee, pleading with its members not to give the prize to Wei. The 52-year-old Wanding, who himself spent 11 years in prison, then called a news conference in Beijing and told foreign reporters that Wei was "not a symbol of Chinese democracy," and that his Western supporters were making a god of him. In November, a week after Wei's release, another veteran dissident, Xu Wenli, publicly rapped Wei for being conceited, for failing to recognize other dissidents' achievements and for being too soft on Deng Xiaoping.
Were Ren's and Xu's comments another example of disarray in the movement, or was something more sinister going on? Xiao leans toward the darker view.
"For the last two years, no dissident in China can call a press conference to say anything," he tells me amid the boxes and file folders of his cramped office. "They're not even allowed to have a birthday party.. . .Wanding, Xu, all dissidents are under 24-hour surveillance. The Government knows where they're at, what they're doing. Ren Wanding then calls a press conference for foreign reporters in Bejing to speak against Wei? It never would have happened without Government sanction or tolerance. Draw your own conclusions."
Wei has already drawn his. After telling me that he initially did not take the attacks too seriously, regarding Ren and Xu as "old friends," he says in a tone of regret that the two men have gone over to the other side. "We have no direct evidence or proofs of any sort," he quickly adds. "However, this is definitely not coincidental that after many years of silence, they should voice these criticisms. They are coordinating with the Chinese Communists to sabotage the work of the democracy movement."
There are nevertheless China scholars -- as well as Chinese dissidents definitely not in collusion with Beijing -- who also question Wei's nomination. They say he doesn't deserve it any more than several others who have suffered for their commitment to democracy.
Zhang Weiguo, a 42-year-old exile who posts a dissident Website, "New Century Net," out of his office in Berkeley, Calif., explains that some of these critics are merely envious, while others have legitimate concerns. "Why are there different opinions about Wei?" Zhang asks. "If Wei becomes the authority for democracy, then some fear their voices will be overwhelmed. If Wei is conferred with the mantle of democracy, then, these people fear, he will become a kind of cult figure, defeating the whole purpose of pluralism."
Those who view Wei in this light say he is wasting his energies and valuable moral capital, charging off in different directions, criticizing Western policies before he's had time to study the issues thoroughly. What he should do now, they advise, is learn English, work on his autobiography, establish his credentials as a political thinker and build support in the dissident community.
In the end, it is impossible to form a single opinion or impression of so complex a man. The skepticism voiced about his ideas and approach to the West's China policies appeals to the mind; but Wei's unflagging spirit, commitment and courage appeal to the heart. A lot of his critics are intellectuals, and intellectuals tend to distrust clarity, simplicity and directness even when what's clear and simple is the truth. And I think that Wei does speak the truth when he says that the interests of the Chinese Communist Party will never be the same as, but ever in opposition to, the real interests of the Chinese people.
As for Wei's spirit, those scholars and friends advising him to retire to the study and write and develop his intellectual resources may not be misleading him, but they are probably misreading him. Besides, there is something tepid about such counsel. To borrow an old, old phrase, it does not have the power to stir men's souls. Many other dissidents have followed that route, and it doesn't appear to have helped the cause of democracy in China or to have unified Chinese political exiles.
That said, Wei does need to brief himself on current conditions, in this country and his own. In the words of Cunningham, Wei's editor, Wei may not be a "first-class intellectual, but of all the prominent dissidents, he has "the appeal and spirit, the personality and the charisma, all the credentials to unify that fractious movement." But he will lose credibility if he doesn't catch up on all that happened in the world while he was in prison. It does neither himself nor his cause any good to paint Jiang's China in the chiaroscuro pigments of Mao's China, where people, literally, were forced to devour their children.

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photograph by John Stoddart); A Dissident's Progress Opposite page, far left: Wei Jingsheng as a 25-year-old soldier, seated lower right, with the People's Liberation Army in Shaanxi Province in 1972; left: reading his defense statement at his trial in Beijing in 1979; above: with reporters at his Beijing home in 1993 after being released from prison. He was jailed again in 1995. (Sygma; Forrest Anderson/Gamma Liaison); A Hundred Schools of Thought Contend: Some believe that Wang Dan, another recently released dissident, is more in touch with Chinese society than Wei. (Jean-Christian Bourcart/Gamma Liaison)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SHAANXI, CHINA (57%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SHAANXI, CHINA (57%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; POLITICAL PRISONERS POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (68%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (53%); 

PERSON: CAPUTO, PHILIP; WEI JINGSHENG BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



502 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
Jamaica Sweeps Off Its Welcome Mat

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
MORE than a million tourists have visited Jamaica in each of the past 10 years, and last year's count soared to 1.9 million. Much of that increase can be attributed to the growing number of cruise ship passengers, including 700,000 in 1997. But tourism officials in Jamaica fear that the recent pervasive harassment of visitors, which Prime Minister Percival J. Patterson called the single biggest problem facing the island's tourist industry, could put an end to a profitable source of income.
 To forestall that possibility, last month Jamaica increased fines by a whopping 100-fold on those who badger and otherwise harass tourists. Penalties for first-time offenders who badger tourists to buy or barter for drugs, sex and merchandise were raised to about $2,700 from $27, while fines for repeat offenders were raised to about $4,100 from $41. Jamaica also established night courts, making it possible for law enforcement officers to appear in court without having to abandon their beats. 
 "It's a little too early to say how well the fines are working, but we know we have a problem and we are determined to deal with it," said Stephanie Belcher, executive director of the island's Tourism Product Development Company, an arm of the Government.
 That observation was seconded by Karen Ford-Warner, director general of the office of the Prime Minister for Tourism, who is nevertheless pleased by early anecdotal evidence. "One cruise director told us he had already seen a remarkable transformation in the streets," she said.
 The recent no-nonsense crackdown follows a number of promised crackdowns that were either quickly abandoned or whose fines were negligible and thus ineffectual. But now the stakes are higher than ever. Tourism is by far Jamaica's biggest and most important industry, accounting for 45 percent of its $595.1 million foreign exchange, for 13.7 percent of its $6.2 billion gross domestic product and for one in every four jobs. Those percentages are among the highest in the Caribbean, a region that in turn is among the most heavily dependent on tourism in the world.
 Beyond that, Caribbean islands are increasingly competing with Florida, Mexico and other warm-weather destinations for North American tourists, who make up most of their visitors, including about 60 percent in the case of Jamaica. To add to Jamaica's woes, Canadian and European tourists have recently discovered Cuba, whose desperation for dollars has resulted in lower-priced vacation packages.
 Both the recent crackdown and the harassment that led to it have been building for some time. After the winter season of 1996-97 four cruise lines threatened to pull out of Montego Bay because of it, and Celebrity Cruises' Mercury did leave at the end of last year, substituting the Mexican port of Calica on the Yucatan peninsula. But Celebrity's Century still stops at Ocho Rios every two weeks, as do other ships. Carnival Cruise Line ships continue to call at Montego Bay and Ocho Rios. "We have gotten complaints about harassment," said Jennifer de la Cruz, a Carnival spokeswoman, "but not enough to negate our passengers' positive experiences by calling at Jamaica."
 But even the Tourism Product Development Company reported that 56 percent of those who responded to a visitor satisfaction survey last year said they were hassled to buy drugs, were followed, badgered for sex or pushed into taxis -- not just at the docks but elsewhere, especially in shopping areas. Last summer anti-harassment teams arrested many pimps, illegal taxi drivers and touts at the airports in Montego Bay and Kingston.
 That sweep followed by one month the warning from Prime Minister Patterson that "people are going to refuse to come to Jamaica, resulting in a virtual collapse of the tourism industry because of harassment." He added that no matter how enjoyable the beaches, the views or the music, if visitors are the subject of constant harassment, they simply will not return. While most Jamaicans are hospitable, he said, the "miscreants" had to be dealt with decisively, and that meant stiff fines.
 One reason the higher fines were not levied before last month is that the problem was widely thought to be a consequence of unemployment, a result of Jamaica's declining sugar and banana industries. Unemployment is still high -- 16.5 percent, according to the Statistical Institute of Jamaica -- but the risk of driving away tourists is now regarded as worse than the risks involved in cracking down. At the same time, though, the Government plans to invest about $1 million to establish craft villages in the major resort towns of Montego Bay, Ocho Rios, Negril and Port Antonio, and to provide training in job skills related to tourism.
 Mrs. Belcher, for one, has no illusions that expenditures for craft villages and for teaching job skills are a complete answer. "You do have some hardened criminals who have no desire to hold jobs," she said, "but that's why we also increased the fines."
 
Map of the Caribbean Sea shows location of Jamaica

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAMAICA (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TOURISM PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT CO (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAMAICA (WEST INDIES); JAMAICA (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); TOURISM (89%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (89%); CRUISES (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); CRIMINAL FINES (75%); TOUR PACKAGES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (65%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



503 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 5; Page 10; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1831 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN;
Newport

BYLINE: By BARBARA LLOYD; BARBARA LLOYD, who spends her summers near Newport, writes about yacht racing for The Times.

 BODY:
As if just waking from one of its historic slumbers, the city of Newport has recently emerged from a recession that seemed to hang on longer than elsewhere in New England. But now the feeling of vitality is everywhere -- from the fresh paint on 18th-century houses to the flower boxes on storefronts; from new restaurants downtown to the yachts large and small in Newport Harbor.
The sound of hammer on nail signals a new prosperity. But Newport is still learning how to deal with its fate as a burgeoning tourist town. Stricter controls on late-night soirees have quieted neighborhood din. And limitations on rental property have routed out overcrowded party houses. 
 With the changes, Newport seems willing to throw open its doors a little wider to visitors. What other city, after all, can claim such historic sites as the Wanton-Lyman-Hazard House, built around 1675, its oldest home; the Touro Synagogue, built in 1763, the oldest synagogue in North America; the Redwood Library, celebrating its 250th anniversary, the oldest library building in continuous use in this country, and a pre-Revolutionary War treasure trove of more than 400 buildings?
Rhode Island's City-by-the-Sea has the lure of wide beaches for swimming, grass courts for tennis, schooners for sailing and bicycle rentals for rides along Newport's rocky coast.
 
Events
A good way to bask in the opulence of turn-of-the-century Newport is to attend a chamber music concert in a mansion from the city's Gilded Age. The 30th Newport Music Festival, from July 10 to 26, offers 61 concerts -- morning, noon and night -- in the grand houses. The schedule includes concerts at the Breakers, the Elms, Marble House and Belcourt Castle.
Sergio Fiorentino, the Italian pianist, is scheduled to play at the festival opening July 10. In addition, 18 afternoon concerts are being devoted to the chamber music of Beethoven. Over all, 700 pieces will be performed next month by 75 international artists.
For a special, albeit costly evening, festival organizers are planning a champagne dinner party on July 22 at Rosecliff mansion. It will precede the American debut of Ulugbek Palvanov of Uzbekistan, winner of the first international Tbilisi piano competition of Georgia. The dinner and concert will cost $150. The festival will also include five midnight concerts in Marble House and Ochre Court, a building owned by Salve Regina University. Festival tickets: $15 to $44; (401) 849-0700.
For other music enthusiasts, Newport is a summer way station for jazz and folk. The New York organizer, George Wein, plans three concert series in Newport: the Ben & Jerry's Folk Festival, Aug. 7 to 9, with Lyle Lovett, the Indigo Girls and Ani DiFranco, among others; the JVC Jazz Festival, Aug. 14 to 16, with artists such as Al Jarreau, Aretha Franklin and David Sanborn; and, new this year, the Gibson Guitar Festival, July 25 and 26, with the Steve Morse Band and Bo Diddley, among others. Prices for concerts in the three series range from $20 to $55. Information: (401) 847-3700; tickets through Ticketmaster, such as the one in Providence, R.I., (401) 331-2211.
The heritage of the America's Cup still thrives in Newport despite the loss of the sailing trophy in 1983 after a century of dominance by the New York Yacht Club. Indeed, the New York group, which has an annex in Newport, plans to challenge New Zealand for the historic trophy in the year 2000. Walk along any wharf, and you will see more sailboat masts than powerboat sterns. There are as many as a dozen 12-meter yachts -- the type that raced for the America's Cup from 1958 to 1983 -- plying Newport Harbor and its outer bay.
On July 4 and 5, the Museum of Yachting's 12-Meter Regatta is expected to bring much of the admired fleet together. Included will be the 66-foot Courageous, which Ted Turner sailed to victory in the 1977 America's Cup. There will be another chance to see the Twelves under sail off Newport during the Wall Street and Corporate Challenge July 10 and 11. And at the end of summer, the Classic Yacht Regatta, also sponsored by the museum, is held on Labor Day weekend.
 
Sightseeing
Many of the 12-meter yachts are available for charter to groups, either by the half-day, at $1,200 for about 12 people, or full day, for $1,700, through America's Cup Charters, a local company, which will also offer evening sails this summer at $50 a person; (401) 846-9886. Sea scope Systems, another firm, charters two vintage powerboats as well as three classic 12-meter sailboats; (401) 847-5007.
For tours on vintage boats, both power and sail, call Classic Cruises of Newport, (800) 395-1343, or (401) 847-0299. An 80-minute ride on Rum Runner II, a restored 60-foot powerboat built in 1929, costs $15 a person; a 90-minute harbor tour on Madeleine, a 72-foot reproduction of a 19th-century schooner, costs $20 a person.
Partly through the largess of Doris Duke, the tobacco heiress who died in 1993, most of Newport's 17th- and 18th-century houses have been restored. The Museum of Newport History at Brick Market, at the foot of Washington Square, is the best starting point for learning about Newport's varied past. Built in the late 1700's, the market building contains Newport memorabilia from 1639 to the present, including audio recollections by lifelong Newporters and computer-assisted video tours. Open Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Sunday 1 to 5 P.M. (401) 841-8770.
The Newport Historical Society, which manages the museum, conducts walking tours of the city's Colonial streets. A two-hour stroll through Historic Hill begins at the museum at 10 A.M. each Thursday through Saturday, and at 3 P.M. each Friday, for $7 a person. Tours along a section of the famous Cliff Walk, which follows the ocean for three miles, begin at 10 A.M. and at 3 P.M. each Saturday. Walks through the historic Point section, and the city's Victorian neighborhoods, are by appointment and also cost $7 each. Call (401) 846-0813.
Other walking tours are available through the Newport County Convention and Visitors Bureau, 23 America's Cup Avenue, (401) 849-8048. Tickets for boat and bus excursions can be purchased at the center through Viking Tours, (401) 847-6921, at $8 for a one-hour harbor cruise, to $28 for a four-hour bus tour.
Tickets to the fabled mansions must be purchased at the mansions; the visitors bureau sells tickets to three houses only. Information: (401) 847-1000.
To see Newport at your own pace, a 90-minute car-tour cassette tape costs $12.95 at the visitors bureau.
 
Where to Stay
Prices do not include a 12 percent tax in the Newport area.
Although the Inntowne, 6 Mary Street; (800) 457-7803, fax (401) 846-1534, is at one of Newport's busiest intersections, its 17 traditional-style rooms -- decorated with antiques and reproductions -- offer a haven from the streets as well as easy access to restaurants, the harbor and shopping. Rates for a double room start at $169.
The Hotel Viking, 1 Bellevue Avenue; (800) 556-7126, fax (401) 848-4864, is a five-story hotel built in 1926 at the top of Newport's Historic Hill area. In the 1970's, a three-story wing was added to the main brick building for a total of 184 rooms. Besides a restaurant, the hotel has a rooftop bar, and an indoor pool. Doubles from $139.
Budget: Parking and affordable rates are two reasons to stay at the Newport Gateway Hotel, 31 West Main Road in Middletown; (401) 847-2735, fax (401) 847-5434, on a busy route one mile out of Newport's center, and across from the city bus; a free shuttle service run by the hotel is also available. Its 47 rooms, recently renovated under new management, are distinctive and pleasant. Doubles from $75.
The Budget Host Inn, 1185 West Main Road, in Middletown; (800) 862-2006, fax (401) 848-7704, is three miles out of Newport. Insulated from a busy highway by a downward sloping driveway, the motel-like building surrounds a grassy play and picnic area. Its 78 rooms are clean and simple. Doubles from $68.
Luxury: Since its renovation last year, Vanderbilt Hall, 41 Mary Street; (888) 826-4255, fax (401) 846-0701, has become Newport's most stylish hotel. In the center of the Historic Hill district, it occupies a former boy's club built in 1909 by Alfred Gwynne Vanderbilt. The 50 rooms, most with grand detailing and woodwork, are lavishly decorated with European antiques. There is a period restaurant and indoor pool. Doubles from $195.
Mill Street Inn, 75 Mill Street; (888) 645-5784, fax (401) 848-5131, was built in the 1880's as a wood-finishing mill. Its brick walls and beamed ceilings add rustic charm to a mostly modern decor in 23 suites, some of which are on two levels. A breakfast buffet is served on a rooftop deck overlooking Newport Harbor. Doubles from $165.
 
Where to Eat
The Commodore's Room at The Black Pearl, (401) 846-5264, is a small, elegant dining room on Bannister's Wharf. Swordfish, salmon filet, lobster tails and, when in season, soft shell crabs sauteed in butter and garlic, are well prepared. Rack of lamb is a specialty, as is veal medallion with champagne sauce. A different, less expensive menu is served in the bar area. Dinner for two with wine: about $140.
The West Deck has waterfront access and plenty of parking (a lot next door sporadically charges $7 a night), both a rarity in Newport. The restaurant, at 1 Waites Wharf, (401) 847-3610, serves dishes such as potato-crusted salmon, seared tuna with lemon basil oil, and filet mignon with Stilton cheese and a port wine sauce. On the deck overlooking a marina, there is a lower-priced menu of grilled entrees. Dinner for two with wine in the dining room: about $125.
Mamma Luisa, at 673 Thames Street, (401) 848-5257, serves a variety of pastas and gnocchi, as well as meat and seafood dishes and vegetarian specials. A meal for two with wine: about $80.
Originally known for nacho platters and steaks, Brick Alley Pub, 140 Thames Street, (401) 849-6334, has expanded into a bustling lunch and dinner restaurant. It serves sandwiches and burgers but also has an extensive salad bar and such choices as sole, catfish and barbecued chicken. Dinner for two with wine: $60.
Local residents show up in droves for the breads and croissants at La Boulangerie Obelix, a tiny rustic restaurant and bakery that recently opened at 382 Spring Street, (401) 846-3377. There are creative sandwiches (chicken-mango salad, and prosciutto with asiago cheese), made with French country bread or focaccia. A light meal costs about $18 for two, including a soft drink and dessert.
Diagonally across from First Beach, Newport's city beach, is Flo's Clam Shack, 4 Wave Avenue, in Middletown, (401) 847-8141. Counter service only, but there are plenty of tables inside and out where one can sit and devour clam and lobster rolls, stuffed quahogs, clamcakes, chowder and calamari. Dinner for two with beer: $20.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Museum of Yachting's Classic Yacht Regatta on Labor Day weekend. (Daniel Forster); Newport Music Festival performance at the Breakers. (Newport Music Festival); Flo's Clam Shack. (Kimberly Narenkivicius/Forster Photography)
 
Chart: "Vital Statistics" lists travel information and statistics on Newport, Rhode Island. (Sources: Newport County Convention and Visitors Bureau, Northeast Regional Climate Center, Rhode Island Economic Development Corporation Research Office, local businesses)
 
Map of Rhode Island show location of Newport

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WHAT'S DOING IN...(TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: VOJ (FRA) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (54%); NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GEORGIA (74%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); 

CITY: NEWPORT, RI, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: VICTOR CO OF JAPAN LTD (54%); BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC (50%); NEW YORK YACHT CLUB (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YACHT CLUB (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWPORT (RI); UNITED STATES (96%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GEORGIA (74%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS FESTIVALS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (86%); JAZZ & BLUES (86%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); BEACHES (76%); MARINE VESSELS (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); CLIMATOLOGY (74%); HISTORIC SITES (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (69%); LIBRARIES (67%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (66%); COASTAL AREAS (66%); 

PERSON: LLOYD, BARBARA

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



504 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 2; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: The View From/Bridgeport;
A City as a Backdrop In a Fledgling Film Plan

BYLINE: By DOMINIC MARIANI 

 BODY:
SO you want to make movies. You need a decaying downtown for urban thrillers, exquisite 19th-century Victorian houses for gothic horror flicks, abandoned factories and mills for period pieces, a scenic waterfront for romance.
Bridgeport has all that -- and more. 
 That's why Howard Grossman of Westport and a group of Hollywood filmmakers, including some Oscar winners, formed the Film Makers Company and are putting $22 million into the old Bijou Theater downtown, hoping to make it a major motion picture studio. As Mr. Grossman, 44, a film and television producer, sees it, "Bridgeport is a brick and mortar town. And the film industry is a brick and mortar business."
Film Makers joins the Bluefish baseball team, the new Housatonic Community College, the new state police headquarters and the Harbor Place Development Project as the most recent additions to the city's economic renaissance. As Mayor Joseph Ganim sees it, "We're moving fast in the right direction."
Mr. Grossman first visited Fairfield County a decade ago when he bought the television rights to Sam Shepherd's play "True West" from Hal Thau, who lived in Weston. Mr. Grossman was living in Greenwich Village at the time and was struck by how beautiful the area was and yet so close to New York City. He moved to Weston, leaving for Westport 12 years later.
It was a short hop to Bridgeport. With the help of State Tax Commissioner Gene Gavin, a neighbor in Westport and a former member of the State Film Commission, Mr. Grossman started meeting with local business and political leaders. "I always believed the film business was an untapped resource here in Connecticut," Mr. Gavin said. "there is no reason why we can't do what Toronto and Charlotte, N.C., have done. We've got every cinematic backdrop."
Mr. Grossman said it has been estimated that the making of a full length feature film can generate revenues in the local community totaling as much as four times the cost of its production -- work for contractors, service industries and retail shops.
Although Film Makers will maintain an office on the West Coast, most of its principals live in or are moving to Fairfield County and plan to make the renovated Bijou a production center for motion pictures, television programs and interactive media. Mr. Grossman and his partners plan to buy the adjoining building and include a theme restaurant, a film company retail store, a theater to show historic films about Bridgeport and a museum. The company recently entered into a joint venture for post production work with the Palace Production Center in South Norwalk under which Palace is to invest $500,0000 for equipment that will enable the filmmakers to do such work as dubbing and looping.
Other founding partners of Film Makers include John Briley, who won an Academy Award for the screenplay of "Gandhi"; John Pecerall who won an Oscar for producing "The Deer Hunter"; Roy Capanella 2d, the son of the baseball legend and a writer, producer and director. All three plan to relocate to the area in the near future.
Film Makers also has an educational side: an cooperative working with the Bridgeport Department of Youth Services, and others to provide after-school programs in directing, producing, set design, editing, lighting, sound and costuming. This will be followed by more training, internships and possibly future employment.
Film Makers will be conducting a day camp program for 46 youths ages 14 through 18 from July 13 to Aug. 21, encouraging students to develop a story line and make a film.
Bill Stewart, an aide to Mayor Ganim, has helped set up the summer program for students from the East Side, the Hollow and the South End neighborhoods. "The kids from these areas would never get this exposure to an artistic community, of which they have absolutely no clue," Mr. Stewart said. "We hope that other community programs will begin to use the performing arts as an active component."
Mr. Grossman says Film Makers plans to make low-budget, commercially oriented, material-driven films. "Making movies," he said, "is not as expensive as people think."
To cut the high-cost screenplays, star salaries, special effects and directors' and producers' fees, "We use relationships between people who know each other, have independent blood and want more control over their projects than Hollywood allows," he said. "Most of all, we are willing to work under a low budget umbrella to get it done."
State Representative Chris Caruso, a Democrat of Bridgeport, drafted entertainment zone legislation when the city was considering a casino and is now trying to arrange additional state funding, grants and bonds for the film project.
"Arts and entertainment have proven to be great ways to revitalize cities," Mr. Caruso said, citing Pittsburgh and Cleveland as examples. "The film industry is clean, high-revenue business that has a ripple effect on a local community."
Film Makers has equity financing of $10 million. There are commitments from the state for $5 million in grants with up to $5 million more under consideration, all for capital improvements. In addition, Bridgeport qualifies as a Federal enterprise zone, so there are federal incentives.
The renovation of the Bijou, which opened in 1910 and is thought to be the oldest commercial theater in America, could take up to 18 months. In the meantime, Mr. Grossman is looking for temporary quarters. Preproduction on the first Film Makers film is scheduled to begin this month.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Howard Grossman, left, in front of the Bijou theater, undergoing $22 million renovation, top. Old film reels, top left, and original fixtures from the theater, opened in 1910, present historical references for a new venture. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: BIJOU THEATER (BRIDGEPORT, CONN); FILM MAKERS CO FILM MAKERS CO (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: BIJOU THEATER (BRIDGEPORT, CONN); FILM MAKERS CO

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT (CONN); UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; THEATERS (BUILDINGS); RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); FILM GENRES (90%); CITIES (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (78%); HORROR FILMS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); MAYORS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); POLICE FORCES (74%); THEME RESTAURANTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (69%); BASEBALL (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (66%); TAX AUTHORITIES (64%); JOINT VENTURES (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); RETAILERS (60%); 

PERSON: MARIANI, DOMINIC MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



505 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 2; Page 31; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: ART;
Exhibit A (as in Art) in a Case for Conservation

BYLINE: By DAVID KIRBY 

 BODY:
NEARLY lost in the sprawling suburbs and high-tech industrial parks of Orange County, Calif., is the unassuming Irvine Museum. Tucked away on the 12th floor of a glass office tower between John Wayne Airport and the San Diego Freeway, it provides an unlikely setting for the world's largest collection of California Impressionist paintings.
Now, some of the finest works of this underappreciated genre have reached New York, bringing their airy palettes and play of California light to the National Academy Museum in a show titled "All Things Bright and Beautiful: California Impressionist Paintings From the Irvine Museum." 
 Collectively these paintings testify to the energy and passion of the little-known California Impressionists of 1890 to 1930. Their work reveals a reverence for the state's landscape, so often washed in its celebrated white light.
But the paintings tell another story too -- that of an iron-willed, sometimes combative real estate heiress named Joan Irvine Smith, whose family once owned the immense ranch upon which the modern city of Irvine, Calif., is built. Several of the 58 works on view here, selected from Mrs. Smith's 3,000-piece collection, were painted on the Irvine Ranch.
Mrs. Smith believes that the paintings, inspired by the unsullied valleys, virgin mountains and deserted coastline of early-20th-century California, bear witness to much of what the state has lost forever. She sees the art as an effective tool for teaching environmental preservation and balanced development. And she is the first to point out that most of her millions came from developing parts of the very land that she now hopes these paintings can help rescue.
"Conservation must be done in a way that doesn't destroy the economy," said Mrs. Smith, whose mother was a prominent Republican but who considers herself politically independent. "A strong economic base is needed to support environmental preservation, but you must have a balance."
The art, she said, "is a soft sell, a necessity to preserve the environment, not by hitting people over the head but as a form of consciousness-raising."
"It makes people think how imperative preservation really is," she added.
Some native Californians who visit the museum, she said, "see the paintings and say, 'Ah, this is what it looked like when I grew up!' Then they compare it to what is going on out there day by day."
"Out there" is visible through the museum's windows: a sometimes smoggy panorama of housing tracts and clogged freeways bordered by scarred mountains and, here and there, patches of the remaining natural habitat.
It wasn't always this way. The National Academy exhibition, on view through July 9 before moving to Chicago, depicts a seemingly mythical land of milky skies and honey hills. It betrays the artists' near-religious awe of all they saw around them. And it shows their mastery at depicting the rare light, shadows and color of California, especially the coral rays of the setting sun catching distant peaks.
Artists began arriving in California after the 1849 gold rush, many settling in San Francisco. Most of them had received formal training in New York or Chicago, and several had lived and painted in France -- in Paris and Giverny -- where they were influenced by Claude Monet.
MEANWHILE, artists in Southern California, most notably in Santa Barbara, Pasadena, San Diego and Laguna Beach (near Irvine), began experimenting with the Impressionist style. Soon after, Northern California artists also began to adopt the style, first in San Francisco and later in artist colonies formed in Monterey, Carmel and other places outside the city after much of it was destroyed in the earthquake and fires of 1906.
Like the French Impressionists, the Californians used bold new pigments, large, contrasting blocks of light and shadow, and broken brush strokes that sometimes only hinted at objects. And like the French, they weren't always appreciated by the art establishment. These artists largely shunned figurative and studio painting, preferring instead to carry their easels outside in the "plein air" fashion and paint the landscapes and seascapes around them.
The artists "sought to capture a fleeting moment of specific natural light," said Jean Stern, executive director of the Irvine Museum. "The clear and intense light appears often in these paintings. It defined the landscape. The biblical analogy of light as the creative instrument is appropriate. Without it, and the divine energy it represented, the land would not exist."
A stirring spirituality permeates many of the works and testifies to the artists' faith not only in God but in the sheer grandeur of nature. The German-born painter William Wendt is probably best known for such "artistic moralism." A founding member of the Laguna Beach Art Association in 1918, he became known for his depictions of rugged coastal hills, often basking in the warm glow of sunset. Even his titles, like "The Silent Summer Sea, 1915" and "There Is No Solitude, Even in Nature, 1906," reveal a certain religious poetry.
The best-known, best-loved and probably the best artist of the school was a native Californian, Guy Rose, who spent eight years at Giverny, though he probably never painted with Monet. Traveling up and down California, he perfected the feathery brush strokes of early Impressionism, incorporating delicate purples, blues and pinks. Like Monet, he often did serial paintings of the same scene at different times of day. With six works in the show, he is its most represented artist. His "Laguna Eucalyptus, 1916" and "Point Lobos, 1918" are among the exhibition's highlights.
Another notable artist in the show is Granville Redmond, who could not hear or speak and who suffered bouts of depression. He preferred the moody, tonalist paintings seen in his dark yet intensely spiritual "Nocturne," but he knew that wealthy patrons wanted his sunny trademark panoramas of poppy fields below snow-covered mountains, exemplified in the mural-like "California Landscape With Flowers."
The show also includes works by the Austrian-born Franz Bischoff, known for delicate floral paintings and vases as well as landscapes; the Hungarian-born Maurice Braun, who painted the burnt-sienna canyons of San Diego; John Gamble, a Santa Barbara resident who captured the intense purple of the lupines that covered the valleys, and Anna Hills, Joseph Kleitsch, Joseph Raphael, Arthur Rider, Elmer Wachtel and his wife, the watercolorist Marion Kavanagh Wachtel. (The exhibition also includes a smaller showing of California Impressionist paintings from the collections of Paul and Kathy Bagley and Thomas and Barbara Stiles, which closes on July 5.)
Six of the artists were National Academy members, and at least two paintings in the show -- Paul Dougherty's "Twisted Ledge" and Wendt's haunting "There Is No Solitude" -- were exhibited at the academy early this century. "It's like a homecoming for these artists, though most people here have never heard of them," said David Dearinger, the academy's chief curator (the show's guest curator is William H. Gerdts). Mr. Dearinger said that a "certain East Coast snobbism" may have kept California Impressionism from gaining a popular foothold in the East.
Mrs. Smith agreed. "Easterners don't think we can do anything out here in California," she said by telephone from her home, in San Juan Capistrano. "But the East Coast doesn't have the light, or the geography." Still, she credited one group of Easterners, the 19th-century Hudson River School, with being the first environmental painters. "They painted to protest the Industrial Revolution and destruction of the land," she said, "just like the Californians after them."
Mrs. Smith is a daughter of perhaps Orange County's most famous family (along with their friends, the Richard Nixons). In 1957 she succeeded her mother, Athalie Richardson Irvine Clarke, as a director of the Irvine Company, which was set up to manage and develop the family's sprawling livestock and produce ranch. For 25 years she clashed with other directors over the company's future and its plans to convert the ranch into a city. She pushed for responsible development of the ranch, insisting on a master plan that included preservation of natural areas. And she fought to donate 1,000 acres to build the University of California, Irvine.
In 1991, after a nine-year lawsuit, Mrs. Smith received $257 million for her interests in the company. She used some of that money to start her Impressionist collection and the Irvine Museum, which opened in January 1993; she also owns a gallery in Laguna Beach.
Her influence lingers. Last year, the Irvine Company and the Nature Conservancy joined to preserve 17,000 acres of endangered coastal sage scrub. "Some of these paintings might well have been painted on that land," Mrs. Smith said. "The artists would be very happy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: CALIFORNIA DREAMING "Point Lobos, 1918," by Guy Rose, a Californian who traveled up and down the state perfecting an Impressionist style. (Joan Irvine Smith Fine Art Inc.)(pg. 31); COASTAL GRANDEUR "The Silent Summer Sea, 1915," by William Wendt, a German-born painter. (Joan Irvine Smith Fine Arts, Inc.)(pg. 33)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: IRVINE MUSEUM (CALIF); NATIONAL ACADEMY MUSEUM (NYC) IRVINE MUSEUM (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: IRVINE MUSEUM (CALIF); NATIONAL ACADEMY MUSEUM (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS PAINTING (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); MOUNTAINS (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (86%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (86%); WILDLIFE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ART COLLECTING (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); WITNESSES (74%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (64%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (50%); 

PERSON: KIRBY, DAVID JOHN WAYNE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



506 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 2; Page 13; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1675 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
Able to Laugh at Their People, Not Just Cry for Them

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: SLIAMMON INDIAN RESERVE, British Columbia

 BODY:
ONE morning recently, Evan Adams, a 31-year-old American Indian actor, was telling stories in the small living room of his parents' home on this beautiful, heavily wooded stretch of the Canadian coast. Surrounded by his mother, three sisters and a brother, he explained in his singsong voice how he had terrified some of the participants in a first-aid course he had taken by reacting with passionate alarm toward a doll that was supposedly choking and its inflatable mother.
He was telling the story as a testament to his acting ability, but his normally soft-spoken sister Maureen slyly deflated the boast by asking, "Was it acting or were you excited about that blow-up doll?" 
 This gentle gibe brought gales of laughter from Mr. Adams's family, and it was just one episode in a day of wordplay among a group of people clearly comfortable communicating through sometimes bawdy humor and irony. That, of course, would be unremarkable in such a close-knit family except for the fact that Indians have generally been depicted in popular culture, and especially in movies, as earnest and stoic, sometimes pathetic and at times bloodthirsty, but rarely wry.
Indians have also been pictured as living in poor, if not squalid conditions. And in fact Mr. Adams, a Coast Salish Indian, said that he had eaten so much salmon as a child growing up in a subsistence economy based on fishing that he took to calling it "Indian bologna." But the economic poverty has often been interpreted as cultural impoverishment -- as an implication that Indian culture lacks a playful or a cerebral dimension.
That is one reason the new movie in which Mr. Adams is a co-star, "Smoke Signals," which opens Friday, is so distinctive. It's funny and complex, as well as poignant, casting a new light on the Indian sensibility.
"Smoke Signals," based on a book of short stories by Sherman Alexie titled "The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven," is the first feature-length movie written, directed and acted by American Indians. But the film, which won two awards at the Sundance festival in January and has been acclaimed by critics, is something more too: it is a step by a new generation of Indian artists toward finding an idiom for exploring their individual and cultural identities without resorting to self-pity, political correctness or Hollywood cliches.
The tone of "Smoke Signals," which documents the unexpected ways two young men living on the Coeur d'Alene reservation in Idaho come to terms with absent fathers, is brash and self-confident in its self-examination. In one scene, for instance, Thomas Builds-the-Fire (Mr. Adams) notes as he watches a western, "The only thing more pathetic than Indians on TV is Indians watching Indians on TV."
This movie, which was directed by the 28-year-old Chris Eyre, is the work not just of a group of creative people with full hearts but of aggressive achievers determined to stake their claim to high ground on the American cultural map. The best known of them is Mr. Alexie. A 31-year-old novelist and poet who grew up on the Spokane reservation in Washington, he was a producer of "Smoke Signals" and wrote its screenplay and is also producing a movie adapted from his recent novel "Indian Killer." He said in an interview that one of his primary goals was to take away from so-called white experts the responsibility for describing contemporary Indian culture. His aim, he said, is not to avoid criticism of Indian society but to make sure that it is Indians doing the criticizing and interpreting.
MR. ADAMS, an athletic-looking man with a broad smile, a long ponytail and wire-framed glasses, is also a good example of restless ambition -- but with a twist. He has acted in four full-length features; he will appear in "Indian Killer," and he is completing a script for a movie in which he will also act later this year, with Loretta Todd, a Cree from Northern Alberta, directing.
But beyond all that, Mr. Adams -- whose grandparents and several aunts died of tuberculosis -- will begin medical school at the University of Calgary this fall, to fulfill a goal of bringing something back to his reservation, a hamlet of 650 people about 100 miles north of Vancouver amid mountains, towering cedars and rich blue waters.
The people involved in "Smoke Signals" are not, in short, willing to passively accept conventional images of Indian life.
"Smoke Signals" is a slow-moving, often wistful drama that turns into a road movie as Thomas, a confident nerd who maintains his people's storytelling tradition in an offbeat manner, accompanies the angry, self-conscious Victor Joseph (Adam Beach) on a journey to Arizona. But the story is enlivened by a self-deprecating sense of humor, one of the most enduring Indian cultural characteristics, particularly on the reservations, the filmmakers say.
"Smoke Signals" is clearly a product of a post-Wounded Knee generation. The filmmakers paid tribute to the American Indian Movement, saying that those angry demonstrators of the 1970's had helped establish a contemporary tradition of Indian pride that made a movie like "Smoke Signals" possible. But the film has a far different sensibility. The characters are angry, but they're also silly, loving, careless, vulnerable, witty and persistent. They play basketball. They laugh at their squalor. At one point the only way they can go forward is by driving a car backward. They mock Indian stereotypes, and they embrace them. In fact, they are much like the group of people who made the film.
Mr. Eyre, a graduate of the film school at New York University, is a Cheyenne-Arapaho who was adopted as a baby and brought up by a white family in Oregon. He has spent the last few years tracking down his biological parents and embracing his Indian heritage. "Smoke Signals," the first feature he has directed, was integral to that process. "In this movie, we're all searching for home to different degrees," he said.
Mr. Beach, a 25-year-old Ojibway from north of Winnipeg, bluntly described how much of his own personal history was reflected in that of his character, Victor, who is haunted by the absence of a parent. He said the defining element of his early life was the death of his mother, who was killed by a drunken driver when he was 8; she was eight months pregnant at the time. His father drowned two months later. "Living with that loss and not understanding it, you kind of feel you're not in the right place," said Mr. Beach, an avid hockey player and rock musician. "I'm kind of looking for the right place in this movie."
Mr. Beach also described the making of "Smoke Signals" as a means by which he could confront his own anger about the loss of his parents. "It was the first time in my life I was able to get that out of myself," said Mr. Beach in describing the filming of the tearful closing sequence of the movie. "I remember I was crying on Chris's shoulder and saying, 'It still hurts.' And he'd say, 'Well, you have to go do it again.' "
And then there is Mr. Adams, who has been almost frenetic in his efforts both to investigate his culture through writing and acting and to serve his people as a doctor. His parallel career paths reflect a tension that runs through the lives of many Indians, he said: whether to concentrate on articulating a distinct cultural vision to the world outside the reservations or to focus on their own people. Mr. Adams is still undecided on which path will win out in his case, but he seems to be leaning in one direction.
"I do love acting and I'm working at it, but there are only a few times in an actor's career when he can do movies that are life changing or magical," he said. "That's not enough for me. I need to do something that really helps my people all the time."
Mr. Adams's father, Les, the captain of a tugboat, said he had long contemplated these issues. As he sat bobbing on his boat, he explained that he knew many years ago that Evan was capable of extraordinary accomplishments. And he said that he had sternly instructed his son to focus his ambition on the world beyond the reservation. But, he admitted, Evan made it clear early on that he had his own ideas about heritage and creativity. As a teen-ager, for example, Evan learned and performed traditional dances that had been little seen for years. Les Adams recalled bringing a friend, the chief of a nearby tribe, to one of Evan's performances and being struck to see his friend cry at one point.
"He said he had not seen those dances since he was a boy and that he never expected to see them again in his life," said Mr. Adams. "He was impressed that these young people wanted to bring them back."
Evan Adams did go away to a private high school when he was 14 and then to McGill University in Montreal. His father said he was crushed when Evan announced that he was leaving McGill after a year, to pursue acting.
The younger Mr. Adams said that part of his struggle over the years had come from his mixed feelings about living in a dominantly white society. "My family had a very high status on the reservation," he said, whose father was the elected chief of his tribe for a number of years. "I was low status in the town. It was a constant source of irritation and humiliation."
Ultimately, Mr. Adams enrolled at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver and completed his premed studies, while continuing to write and act, doing everything from Shakespeare to a play he wrote, "Snapshots," about how two Indian families deal with illness and death.
He described his swings from one world to the other while showing a reporter an extraordinary collection of totem poles, masks and other ceremonial objects preserved in the glass and concrete Museum of Anthropology on the University of British Columbia campus. He insisted that he was trying to find a way of revering the past while shaping a new kind of future that was true to both the Indian spirit and the modern spirit.
"The Indian way," he concluded, "is being adaptable and flexible."

GRAPHIC: Photos: LOOKING AT THEMSELVES Adam Beach, left, and Evan Adams in "Smoke Signals," the first feature-length movie written, directed and acted by American Indians. (Jill Sabella/Miramax)(pg. 13); CO-STAR Evan Adams, of "Smoke Signals," in Vancouver. (Jerry Kharmann for The New York Times)(pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: SMOKE SIGNALS (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (73%); 

CITY: COEUR D'ALENE, ID, USA (69%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (58%); 

COMPANY: COEUR D'ALENE PRESS (51%); COEUR D'ALENE TEACHERS CREDIT UNION (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (73%); COEUR D'ALENE, ID, USA (69%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (58%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; INDIANS, AMERICAN NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (90%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); FIRST AID (71%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (71%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (71%); FILM DIRECTORS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (66%); 

PERSON: EYRE, CHRIS; ALEXIE, SHERMAN; STERNGOLD, JAMES EVAN ADAMS (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



507 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 2; Page 34; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: ARTS/ARTIFACTS;
Vivid Reminders Of Jewish Life In the Old South

BYLINE: By DAVID GALEF; David Galef teaches English at the University of Mississippi.

DATELINE: JACKSON, Miss.

 BODY:
THE engraved kiddush cup in the exhibit is exquisite, casting its silver glow against its black backdrop. Used to sanctify the Jewish sabbath, this cup is more than 300 years old and comes from the French region of Alsace. How did it end up in Baton Rogue, La.?
The traditional Jewish immigrant experience in America is usually thought to involve a passage from Eastern Europe through Ellis Island to the Lower East Side of Manhattan, but there have always been alternative routes. One of the more intriguing and lesser-known stories is how Jews from France and Germany arrived in New Orleans in the 1800's and made their way up the Mississippi. 
 "Alsace to America: Discovering a Southern Jewish Heritage," an exhibit sponsored by the Museum of the Southern Jewish Experience and now at the Mtel Center here through Aug. 31, is a multimedia presentation filling a real gap in our cultural memory. The show chronicles the arrival and dispersal of Jews from Alsace and Lorraine, where political and economic repression were daily realities. Not surprising, many Jews saw life in America as a widening of opportunity, glad to trade the Rhine for the Mississippi.
The route started in Alsace, with ships embarking from Le Havre or Hamburg and landing in New Orleans. The emigrants' trunks were filled with their heritage, as shown by the objects in the exhibit. A gouache-on-glass mizrah, used to indicate the eastern wall of the synagogue for prayer, is decorated with lions and flowers in a typically Alsatian pattern. A mappa, an embroidered prayer belt made from infant boys' swaddling clothes, has survived the rough transition from the Old World to the new country intact.
As always, the Jews carried their livelihood with them on their backs. A fine set of watchmaker's tools and a shoemaker's last are on proud display. Other Jews, also taking up where they had left off, became itinerant peddlers, providing everything from bolts of fabric to pots and pans for the farmers spread along the Delta. Of course, after enough sales, the immigrants were able to build their own stores and advertise: "I. Popkin, est. 1892, Jeweler" reads one sign in the show. The office of a Jewish cotton factor, a wholesale goods buyer for plantations, is reproduced with its original planter's desk, featuring dozens of pigeonholes and drawers.
Naturally, some accommodation was necessary to survive in the small towns they chose to live in, like doing business on the sabbath. The title of a 1993 memoir written by Eli N. Evans, who grew up in North Carolina, is telling: "The Lonely Days Were Sundays." But the Jews were a strong and welcome presence wherever they settled, often forming the main economic life of a town. As Jews moved into a region, their first step was to institute the Chevra Kadisha, or burial society, followed by establishing a congregation and finally building a synagogue. The one in Port Gibson, erected in 1891 and the oldest synagogue in Mississippi, has a Moorish-Byzantine design that -- not coincidentally -- resembles one in Alsace. The better-endowed B'Nai Israel synagogue in Natchez is larger, more ornate and surprisingly similar-looking to some of the adjacent churches.
The demographics are startling. Though Jews never amounted to more than 5 percent of the population in Natchez, for example, at their height they ran one-third of the city's businesses. They readily engaged in philanthropic and civic activities, serving as aldermen and mayors, and leaving an array of showplace homes that remains one of Natchez's biggest tourist draws. Far from the kind of anti-Semitism that the Ku Klux Klan later spearheaded, an unusual social mingling seems to have prevailed.
Some thumbnail biographies from the exhibit are particularly worth noting. Phillip Sartorius, for example, sailed from Bavaria in 1845, settled in Vicksburg, sired 19 children and was the first soldier wounded by Union forces in the battle of Millikin's Bend just outside Vicksburg. During the Civil War, some 5,000 Jews served in the Confederate Army.
In daily life, the blend of Southern and Jewish made for some curious sights, at least to modern viewers: a Sukkah booth hung with cotton, soybeans and corn husks, for example, or a challah on a Sabbath table against a window framing a cotton field. These and other images are the work of Bill Aron, a photographer whose pictures are displayed at the Museum of the Southern Jewish Experience's home base in Utica, a 40-minute drive from Jackson. (A supplementary exhibit, "The Architecture of Experience: Alsatian Jews at Home, Worship and Work," opened at the museum on June 14.) In an attempt to make visitors realize what has been lost, the museum is working on a "cultural corridors" tour from New Orleans to Memphis, with stops including Port Gibson, Natchez, Vicksburg and Woodville (once known as Little Jerusalem).
What happened? As the Jewish population grew in strength and numbers, a curious phenomenon occurred, assimilation. An abiding faith of America, in many cases it led to the disolution of tradition. But the other enemy of tradition was economic. If the golden age of Southern Jewry was in the 1890's, when cotton was king, the advent of the boll weevil around 1908 changed all that. With the main cash crop of the South literally eaten up, the merchant class quickly began losing its customers. A great many sons and daughters of the Southern Jews began their own emigration northward.
What remains? Most communities that once had a thriving Southern Jewish population now have barely sufficient numbers to keep its memory alive. As Macy B. Hart, executive director of the museum, notes: "We need to save what has fallen into ruin and disrepair. The temples themselves are the real museum. We want to use them as a teaching tool."

GRAPHIC: Photos: SOUTHERN HERITAGE A prayer belt, or mappa, above; a menorah, left, and a mizrah, far left, used to indicate a synagogue's eastern wall, are part of an exhibition at the Mtel Center in Jackson, Miss. (Photographs by the Museum of the Southern Jewish Experience)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); ALSACE, FRANCE (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JACKSON, MS, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: MUSEUM OF THE SOUTHERN JEWISH EXPERIENCE OLD WORLD BAKERY (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF THE SOUTHERN JEWISH EXPERIENCE

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); ALSACE, FRANCE (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); JACKSON, MS, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: ART; JEWS; REVIEWS JEWS & JUDAISM (95%); EXHIBITIONS (91%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); HANUKKAH (78%); JEWELRY (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); FABRICS (69%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (50%); 

PERSON: GALEF, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



508 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2071 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
A Lost Theatrical Form Returns With a Smile

BYLINE: By VINCENT CANBY 

 BODY:
THE setting is Washington in March 1933: the economy is deep into the Depression, the stock market is a wasteland, bread lines are long and banks are closing. The nation totters.
Herbert and Lou Hoover, the 31st President of the United States and his wife, are rattling around the White House on the eve of the day they must vacate the premises for the incoming Roosevelt family. Herbert faces the move with equanimity, but Lou wants revenge. She is planning to steal some White House silver and a portrait of George Washington -- it's not as if there aren't plenty more around the place. 
 Herbert tries to cheer her: "It could be worse -- I could have been re-elected." She goads him. This being their last night, she says, isn't there something he'd like to do that is not entirely proper? There is, which leads to the rude, gleefully childish blackout that ends the sketch titled "Franklin D. Roosevelt to Be Inaugurated Tomorrow."
This is just one of the numbers in the Drama Dept.'s enchanting resurrection of "As Thousands Cheer," the 1933 Irving Berlin-Moss Hart topical revue, which is at the Greenwich House Theater.
A 1933 topical revue that's still funny? Yes. One of the marvelous things about intelligently written, skillfully performed revue material is that the humor can shine through in front of audiences for whom the original associations have grown dim or, perhaps, never existed at all. Watch children watching a sketch whose point is utterly beyond them and they laugh at the right places. Such comedy has a rhythm that can be as infectiously comic as content, even when the subjects might be John D. Rockefeller Sr., the five-and-dime heiress Barbara Hutton, Mahatma Gandhi, Hollywood's morals czar Will Hays, unemployment, and thievery at the Automat.
The wonder here is that you can delight in both the content and the rhythm of "As Thousands Cheer," which is presented with nutty enthusiasm, and sometimes vitriol, as it sends up the American scene at one of the darkest moments in the country's history. Directed as a series of collegial, go-for-broke turns by Christopher Ashley, whose credits include "Jeffrey" and the recent Encores production of "Li'l Abner," the show is a kind of tabloid version of the original Broadway hit. It has been cut to run a breezy 75 minutes, played without an intermission by a cast of six acting and singing clowns, accompanied by a piano and a bass.
Like the Atlantic Theater Company, which recently revived "Once in a Lifetime," the classic 1930 George S. Kaufman-Moss Hart comedy, the Drama Dept. possesses an awareness of the theater's historical past that deepens and illuminates the company's present work. This was apparent six months ago in its ebullient, witty, very original deconstruction of Harriet Beecher Stowe's "Uncle Tom's Cabin or Life Among the Lowly."
In choosing to search for the life within "As Thousands Cheer," the Drama Dept. is rediscovering the art of the revue as it has evolved in the American theater from the days of minstrel shows. Spawned in its present form in the years before World War I, the intimate revue took over during the Depression, when soaring budgets made the elaborate, Ziegfeld-type spectacles too risky to produce. Revues have existed in all sizes and shapes from the teens, 20's, 30's and 40's into the 50's: a glorious grab-bag kind of theater, brainy beyond the aspirations of burlesque and vaudeville, composed of sketches, songs and dances, sometimes with a common theme and, most important, with a consistently skeptical point of view.
I think of London in 1947 and the first revue I ever saw, "Sweetest and Lowest," a hilarious, very jaundiced look at life in grimly austere, postwar Britain, starring an almost youthful Hermione Gingold. A highlight: a sendup of Noel Coward's role as a goodwill ambassador during the war ("While disguised as Mr. Eden/ He was smuggled into Sweden/ Where he cleverly put on 'Private Lives' "). The cheeky effrontery of undergraduate humor, which I then knew best, had been transformed into art.
By the early 1950's, television had already appropriated the variety-show format of revues, and Sid Caesar and Imogene Coca briefly made the entire country sketch comedy-conscious on "Your Show of Shows." Yet producers of theatrical revues persisted: Ben Bagley with his "Shoestring Revue of 1957," Julius Monk with his brilliant, mini-scaled shows in whatever nightclubs were available, and the indefatigable Leonard Sillman, whose "New Faces of 1952" was the most successful of all the "New Faces" shows he had been producing since the 30's.
Among the discoveries of the 1952 edition were Ronny Graham, Alice Ghostley, Paul Lynde and Eartha Kitt. As this show introduced Ms. Kitt, she introduced what was to become one of her signature songs, "Monotonous." The most memorable production number, choreographed for frenzy by Richard Barstow, was Michael Brown's exuberant hoedown, "Lizzie Borden," which has the refrain: "Oh you can't chop your papa up in/ Massachusetts/ Massachusetts is a long way from New York!"
Some of the priceless sketches: a Paul Lynde monologue in which a man with a Rotarian's desire to please, though still heavily bandaged and on crutches, relates what happened on the Trip of the Month Club's African safari he took with his late wife; a vignette about the Loman family in which Willy's frail, worried wife implores her sons to pay attention, to become bank robbers like their exhausted dad; and Ronny Graham's takeoff on Truman Capote, who is lying in a hammock and talking (if I remember correctly) about moss.
Gorgeous material, some of it written by a writer then billed as Melvin Brooks. He, of course, was also one of the contributors to "Your Show of Shows," which used a platoon of talents that included Neil Simon, Carl Reiner, Larry Gelbart and many others.
What is it about these revues that makes them so irresistible?
When they work, they capture the temper of the times with brevity, with an accuracy that sometimes shocks and with a gift for parody that restores sacred cows to human dimension. A blending of first-rate sketches laced with songs as funny and melodic as Berlin's for "As Thousands Cheer" can be among the most bracing of theatrical entertainments. We have let the genre go to seed.
For a while, it seemed as if television would meet the demand for sketch comedy, but then not even Sid Caesar could stick it out. Television eats up material like an office shredder. The incomparable Carol Burnett endured for 11 seasons and kept the quality way, way up. "Saturday Night Live" has had its golden moments, most of them many years ago. I think of an Edward R. Murrow "Person to Person" sort of parody in which the self-absorbed interviewer has his back to the television screen on which his guest, who looks like Elizabeth Taylor, starts choking to death on the chicken leg that has had her ravenous attention.
"Saturday Night Live" produced some great sketch actors: John Belushi, Dan Aykroyd and the best of them all, the grandly and subtly gifted Eddie Murphy. Remember his sketch about how white folks behave on the bus to work when black folks aren't around? Bells go off, music suddenly blares, saucily dressed waitresses appear, to serve martinis and canapes. The imagined merriment is nonstop and strictly segregated.
The show still introduces good new performers but, in what could be an attempt to affect a 1990's sort of cool, the sketches tend to be resolutely without point. The idea is that to express passion, even in a satirical way, is definitely un-cool.
THERE have been suggestions that the revue sketch is dated today, that audiences (especially television's) are not interested in it and much prefer shows that feature stand-up comics. Yet the range of subjects covered in stand-up is limited. It is usually so self-referential (dating, the difference between men and women, terrible sexual performance, parents, looks, weight) you might suspect that the comics and their audiences have turned their backs on the rest of the world.
If that's true, it's no wonder so few people bother to vote.
The time may have come for the theater to reclaim the topical revue. There is no shortage of writing talent available. Tick off the names: Larry Gelbart, Neil Simon, Betty Comden and Adolph Green, Terrence McNally, Wendy Wasserstein, A. R. Gurney, Christopher Durang, Whoopi Goldberg, Paul Rudnick, Nicky Silver, David Ives, Jane Wagner, Jon Robin Baitz, Douglas Carter Beane, David and Amy Sedaris, John Leguizamo -- and they are just some of the people we know about.
Meanwhile, you can see what a hit 1933 revue looks like as put on by people whose parents might not even have been born when the original production opened. "As Thousands Cheer" is a theme show, each sketch or song supposedly torn from a newspaper headline of the day. In this way, it was something of a prescient parody of the Living Newspapers that were to be put on under the sponsorship of the Federal Theater Project, which was established by the Works Progress Administration in 1935.
Unlike the Living Newspapers, however, which examined housing, health care, labor unions and the like, "As Thousands Cheer" mostly examines such issues as why a man might bite a dog and the private personas of public people, usually behaving badly. The Berlin score includes the steamy and funny "Heat Wave" and, for an abrupt change of mood, the poignant "Supper Time," which is cued by a headline about a lynching and was sung in the original show by Ethel Waters.
The members of the Drama Dept. cast are a delight. Some highlights: B. D. Wong (Gandhi and the man who bites a dog), Kevin Chamberlin (hilarious as the dog that's bitten and Mr. Hoover), Judy Kuhn (Joan Crawford, Barbara Hutton), Howard McGillin (John D. Rockefeller Sr., Douglas Fairbanks Jr.), Mary Beth Peil (Aimee Semple McPherson, Mrs. Hoover), and Paula Newsome, who plays and sings up a storm. Among her numbers are Berlin's superb "Harlem on My Mind" and "Supper Time." David Evans is on piano, Lou Bruno on bass. This is a very good crew.
Footnote to history: In her book, "Irving Berlin: A Daughter's Memoir," Mary Ellin Barrett reports that when "As Thousands Cheer" was trying out in Philadelphia, Clifton Webb, Marilyn Miller and Helen Broderick, the show's three white stars, refused to share the curtain call with Ethel Waters. Berlin's reaction was to suggest that this wasn't a show in need of curtain calls anyway, and that they should be cut. At the next performance the cast took its bows together.
 
'The Dying Gaul'
 Craig Lucas's fascinating new play, "The Dying Gaul," closed last Sunday night after a limited engagement at the Vineyard Theater, where a scheduling conflict made any extension impossible.
Too bad, but there are hopes that it will reopen in the fall for the unlimited run it deserves. Or, to put it another way: "The Dying Gaul" is even more theatrically imaginative and engaging than Mr. Lucas's "Prelude to a Kiss," the quirky fairy tale of a modern love story seen on Broadway in 1990.
"The Dying Gaul" is quite different. It is also a love story of sorts, but one in which anger and lust take a terrible toll, at least in part through the magic of Internet technology.
The setting is Hollywood and the principal characters are Robert, an aspiring screenwriter of mystical bent, in mourning for his lover who has recently died of AIDS; Jeffrey, a bisexual producer who buys Robert's first script and seduces him into a mutually satisfying, supposedly no-strings-attached affair, and Elaine, Jeffrey's wife, an intelligent, loving woman whose patience runs out.
The Vineyard production, staged by Mark Brokaw, was just about flawless, with Tim Hopper as Robert, Tony Goldwyn as Jeffrey, Linda Emond as Elaine and Robert Emmet Lunney as Robert's psychiatrist, who is as important to Mr. Lucas's intricate plotting as the existence of the Internet.
If Mr. Goldwyn appeared to stand out, it was because the role is so scarily flamboyant; his colleagues were equally centered in their performances. Adding to the classiness of the production: Allen Moyer's serenely handsome, vaguely Japanese unit set, which suggested Hollywood glitz as interpreted by a very expensive decorator in a minimalist mode.
"The Dying Gaul" indicates that Mr. Lucas is writing better than ever these days.

GRAPHIC: Photos: SHINING THROUGH Howard McGillin, left, Kevin Chamberlin and Judy Kuhn in "As Thousands Cheer." (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. 1); A LOVE STORY OF SORTS Tim Hopper, left, Tony Goldwyn and Linda Emond in "The Dying Gaul" by Craig Lucas. (Carol Rosegg/"The Dying Gaul"); HEADLINERS B. D. Wong, left, Howard McGillin, Kevin Chamberlin (seated), Mary Beth Peil, Judy Kuhn and Paula Newsome in the revue "As Thousands Cheer," a Drama Dept. production at Greenwich House. ALL IN THE TIMING Alice Ghostley, far left, and June Carroll in the revue "New Faces of 1952"; Eddie Murphy, above left, as a film critic, and Chevy Chase on the "Weekend Update" portion of "Saturday Night Live" in 1981. (Fred Fehl; NBC)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: AS THOUSANDS CHEER (REVUE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: DRAMA DEPT (THEATER TROUPE); GREENWICH HOUSE THEATER DRAMA DEPT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DRAMA DEPT (THEATER TROUPE); GREENWICH HOUSE THEATER DRAMA DEPT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); THEATER (87%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); THEATER COMPANIES (66%); HISTORY (60%); 

PERSON: ASHLEY, CHRISTOPHER; HART, MOSS (1904-61); BERLIN, IRVING (1888-1989); CANBY, VINCENT JAY ROCKEFELLER (56%); EDDIE MURPHY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



509 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 2; Page 6; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
Riffing on the Past, With Surprising Results

BYLINE: By STEVEN DRUKMAN 

 BODY:
AFTER toiling for 20 years not exactly anonymously but far from the bright lights of fame as a freelance journalist, stand-up comic, playwright, screenwriter and movie director, nobody is more surprised to see "Side Man," a memory play about jazz performers, land on Broadway than its author, Warren Leight, 41.
In jazz parlance, sideman refers to a musician who works for hire on band jobs, who knows the standards by heart and who can solo dazzlingly but also blend in with an orchestra's sound. 
 The memories are based on Mr. Leight's father, Donald Leight, now 75, a trumpet player who worked with Claude Thornhill, Woody Herman and other bandleaders through the 1950's. As the author's script shows, sidemen, who sometimes sabotaged their careers with drugs and alcohol, gradually became marginalized with the advent of rock-and-roll.
But the main focus of the play is Mr. Leight's own childhood, he said recently over pastry in a Greenwich Village shop near his home. Clifford, the author's stand-in (played by Robert Sella), revisits his past, resuming the peacekeeper role he was forced to adopt in his parents' crumbling marriage. Ranging between 1953 and 1985, Mr. Leight mixes memories of his bitter, often hysterical mother (Wendy Makkena) and diffident, ineffectual father (FrankWood) with a joke-filled celebration of the journeymen musicians he knew as a child on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
"All my father's friends could remember the horn section from an obscure gig by such-and-such orchestra," Mr. Leight said, "but would walk right by their own children on the sidewalk and not recognize them."
"Side Man," directed by Michael Mayer, opens on Thursday at Stage Right at the Roundabout Theater Company, which is co-producing it with the Weissberger Theater Group and Peter Manning. The cast includes Kevin Geer, Michael Mastro, Joseph Lyle Taylor and Angelica Torn.
In March, when "Side Man" had a short run at the CSC theater Off Broadway, also directed by Mr. Mayer, it received excellent reviews. Shortly after, the screenwriter William Goldman was quoted in an interview in The New York Times as saying, "The best play I've seen in years is Warren Leight's 'Side Man.' "
Still, Mr. Leight, who has the genial, sometimes abstracted air of a professional graduate student, has been cautious. "So many people have said to me 'This is the next big thing' about my other projects -- which usually leads to unemployment and unreturned calls," he said with a rueful grin.
For Mr. Leight, his play is also autobiographical because: "I still see myself as a sideman in many ways. Coming from a jazz family, I always felt like I should earn a living. So for the last 20 years I've been a writer-for-hire, basically."
This may be why "Side Man" seems so charitable in its rendering of Gene, the title character. Peter Marks wrote in his review in The New York Times, that, "when it's over, you look for heroes and villains, and discover only people."
Mr. Leight's father, who lives west of the theater district in the Clinton section of Manhattan, recalled an era: "Sidemen only got attention inside the industry. In the 30's, the sidemen were also 'names' -- Gene Krupa, for example, was Benny Goodman's sideman -- but 15 years later, sidemen like that were unknown. Like theater and film, but more so in music, the leaders and headliners get all the public acclaim, and no one pays attention to who does the dirty work. Even in the Philharmonic, people are attracted to name conductors. But how many people can name four or five musicians in the orchestra?"
"Side Man" began as a staged reading in February 1996 in the basement of the West Bank Cafe on Theater Row. Mr. Leight, a member of the theater group Naked Angels, had had the play sent to Mr. Mayer, who liked it immediately. "The world he depicts is so truthful, so idiosyncratic, it completely charmed me," Mr. Mayer said. After the reading he directed it next during development at the New York Stage and Film Company's annual summer season at Vassar College in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., where Mr. Manning produced it.
Mr. Mayer, a recent Tony Award nominee for his direction of "A View From the Bridge," a Roundabout revival that transferred to Broadway, said: "What attracted me to Warren's specific biography was how universal it is. It's not just a 'jazz play' or a 'biographical play.'
"The response from audiences has been, 'That's my story.' And I ask, 'Oh, your father was a jazz musician?' And they say, 'No, he was an accountant, but it's still my story."
Mr. Leight jokes about his difficult childhood. "I was a poor, scrawny kid from the Upper West Side -- very 10025," he said, referring to the zip code of his youth. "At least the 10024 kids had summer camp. I got drop-kicked to Stanford on a scholarship, but was out of place in Palo Alto with these Olympic team water polo players."
After graduating in 1977, he returned to New York, sold an article on "something like 'Where to Find a Public Bathroom in New York' " to The Village Voice, and became a career writer. The articles eventually formed the 1983 collection "The I Hate New York Guidebook" -- "my first succes d'estime," Mr. Leight said, "that's French for 'still living in a walkup.' "
His career has included a stint as the His columnist for Mademoiselle magazine while also writing for National Lampoon, providing cabaret material for a revue quartet, the High-Heeled Women, and performing his own stand-up routines.
"I had a year that was my 90-job year," he said. "At one point, I was ghostwriting for a guy who suddenly died. His widow said, 'Hurry up, the publishers will get suspicious if the last installment takes too long.' "
His "I Hate New York Guidebook" was the basis, along with Mayor Ed Koch's memoir, of the 1985 musical "Mayor." "It was a hit at the now-defunct Village Gate," Mr. Leight remembered, "and everyone said I wouldn't have to worry about work again -- which led, after its closing, to a long jobless streak, of course."
In recent years, he has found sporadic success in Hollywood, but has always remained a New Yorker. "I was looking for an apartment in Manhattan, and I'd see something I liked. Then I'd hear the rent and think: 'Yeah, I can afford that -- two days a week.' "
The experience prompted the screenplay for the 1993 film "The Night We Never Met" (which he also directed), a story of three people splitting the rent on an apartment but residing in it on alternate days, starring Matthew Broderick and Annabella Sciorra.
"Again, this one was going to be my big break," Mr. Leight said. "But it came out two weeks before 'Jurassic Park,' so it became this lovely sand castle that this enormous tsunami washed away."
After writing horror films and documentaries, Mr. Leight wrote a screenplay for what would become the movie "Dear God," starring Greg Kinnear, in 1996. "This was such a humiliating disaster," he said. "After six or seven drafts, it was taken from me. Suddenly, there were 60 speaking parts, a dog in a courtroom scene. I sat in a screening and thought, 'Time to write a play where I make no compromises.' "
The result was "Side Man." "Film is good money," Mr. Leight said, "but there's a reason: they pay you to go away. 'Side Man' is filled with my voice because it's my story."
The author's father saw the play at Vassar. "I didn't want him to," the younger Mr. Leight said, "but an old musician friend told him, 'Hey, your son wrote a play about you. It's in Poughkeepsie.' My father told me he was up all night afterward. I assumed it was the not-so-flattering portrayal, and then he said, 'Yeah, I couldn't figure out who was playing trumpet on "I Remember Clifford" in that scene.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: HARMONY Michael Mayer, above left, the director of "Side Man," with its author, Warren Leight; Frank Wood and Wendy Makkena, at left, in the play. (Photographs by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. 6); A NEW GIG Michael Mastro, who plays a jazz musician in "Side Man" at the Roundabout. (Carol Rosegg/"Side Man")(pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: SIDE MAN (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ROUNDABOUT THEATER CO

ORGANIZATION: ROUNDABOUT THEATER CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); WRITERS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MUSIC (90%); FILM (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); THEATER (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (77%); POP & ROCK (77%); CHILDREN (77%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (67%); 

PERSON: LEIGHT, WARREN; WOOD, FRANK; MAKKENA, WENDY; MAYER, MICHAEL; DRUKMAN, STEVEN WARREN G WOOD (59%); WOODROW CHARLES 'WOODY' HERMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



510 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Fulfilling a Housing Promise in Atlantic City

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
THE redevelopment effort begun 11 years ago in the Northeast Inlet section of Atlantic City has filled many once-blighted blocks with rows of tidy new houses.
Yet the promise of renewal has only been half realized for this 100-acre oceanfront neighborhood in the shadow of the flashy Boardwalk casinos. 
 Projects under way or soon to begin, which together could add 112 residences to the 462 completed so far, will help fulfill that promise. In the process, they will introduce different housing types to the neighborhood, where some 1,200 residential units, complemented by recreational areas, eventually could be constructed.
While much of the housing built in the Inlet has been moderately priced attached town houses, the latest round of projects involves semi-attached houses as well as detached homes, including some to be built for purchasers on lots they will buy.
Another feature on the inlet will be the Housing Technology Demonstration Park, which will showcase homes constructed with emerging building technologies and designs. It is part of a $1 million state and federally financed research effort aimed at developing ways to reduce the costs of new construction by the Center for Architecture and Building Science Research at the New Jersey Institute of Technology in Newark .
"The original plan was to develop the Inlet with multistory residential buildings," said James Kennedy, executive director of the state's Casino Reinvestment Development Authority, which targeted the Inlet for renewal in 1987. "But people wanted to live in single-family homes, so the compromise was the duplex houses."
The authority was created under a 1984 law to channel money from the gaming industry into urban revitalization projects throughout the state that the agency approves. So far it has invested $140 million in the Inlet, including the cost of relocating homeowners, and plans to pump in up to $20 million more. The Atlantic City Housing and Urban Redevelopment Agency is a planning partner.
Mr. Kennedy said the new housing would also help draw middle- and upper-middle income buyers and create "a balanced community." And the housing demonstration park will provide "prototypes to use throughout Atlantic City and the state that will help stretch our dollars," he said.
Through the 50's the Inlet was a grand seashore neighborhood with large elegant homes. But then the city began to decline when tourists went elsewhere and businesses and residents, including those in the Inlet, fled to the suburbs.
The neighborhood's struggle back has not been easy. Initially, some area homeowners and businesses unsuccessfully fought all the way to the State Supreme Court against selling their property, contesting the Casino Reinvestment Development Authority's general condemnation powers.
About 300 families were relocated and about 75 of them elected to return to new homes at the same cost of the old ones, the agency said.
Along with the new housing, recreational projects are under way, including the transformation of an entire block into a passive waterfront park. In addition, a $3.8 million marine education center is under construction at neighboring Gardner's Basin maritime park.
Mr. Kennedy said the second half of the rebuilding project is expected to be faster -- five years instead of 10 -- because the authority owns the land and improvements, including sewer and utility lines, are in place.
In turn, he added, the hope is that the subsidies needed to build projects and keep house prices low will decrease as production proceeds and that projects closest to the water would be built entirely by private funds. The subsidies, $50,000 to $100,000 per unit, are raised from low-interest taxable bonds the authority sells.
On one and a half blocks roughly bounded by Vermont, New Hampshire and Madison Avenues and Gramercy Place, work is proceeding on Madison Landing, comprising 62, mostly semi-detached houses as well as single-family detached homes. The $11.5 million project is being developed by Procida Realty & Construction of the Bronx.
THIS is the first project in Atlantic City for the company, known for its low and moderately priced inner-city housing developments in New York City. "Madison Landing is similar to our work in New York, so we see it is as a pretty good fit," said Mario J. Procida, president of the company. "The Inlet also is a logical growth spot where buyer interest is strong."
The two- and three-bedroom homes have 1,228 to 1,540 square feet of space; all have one-car garages, small backyards and front porches. Thirty-five homes in the initial 38-unit first phase have been sold, prompting the expansion of the project to its current size.
Prices for the first-phase units were $126,000 for the eight detached houses and ranged from $81,000 to $106,000 for the semi-detached homes. Prices for the homes in the second phase, which does not include detached units, have been raised to $88,000 to $109,000, Mr. Procida said, adding that "we are pushing the envelope in terms of price and in turn expanding the market." Completion is expected by the winter of 1999, he said.
Plans are also advancing on a project a block from the water. As now envisioned it calls for the development of 20 semi-attached houses and six detached homes on one block bordered by Maine, New Hampshire and Madison Avenues and Gramercy Place. There will also be up to 12 building lots, with 3,600 to 4,900 square feet each, that will be sold to purchasers on which to build detached homes. The sale of lots alone will be a first for the Inlet.
York Hunter Construction Services, based in Atlantic City, is the developer of the project, which has received preliminary approval from the authority. It is the first phase of a larger development, called Oceanside, that could eventually contain up to 142 homes.
This first phase "will jump-start that block and set the architectural tone for Oceanside, which I call Victorian seashore," said Edward Einhaus, the authority's director of housing development. He said the authority would set general design guidelines that call for the houses to have, among other things, open front porches and upstairs decks.
Robert P. Gross, managing director of York Hunter, said this first phase of the Oceanside project "will allow us to market the Inlet to a broader audience."
Though the prices and sizes of the homes his company will build have not yet been set, they are expected to be larger and more expensive than those built in the Inlet to date, he said, adding that prices for the building lots also have not been determined. Construction could start as early as this fall.
Meanwhile, construction began last week on the first of five houses within the Housing Technology Demonstration Park, which as now planned will contain 12 homes. Construction on the remaining seven homes is to start in October, said Peter Kastl, project manager and director of housing and building technology at the research center at the New Jersey Institute of Technology.
The institute is developing the park with $1.5 million from the Casino Reinvestment Authority, which also donated the five acres for the project, which will cover two blocks bounded by Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Madison Avenues and Gramercy Place.
The aim of the park, said Mr. Kastl is to "look at the hardware" involved in constructing houses, and how incorporating emerging technologies in the process can "reduce the cost to build and own affordable housing."
The homes will be built by construction companies selected by the institute based on their ability to produce a quality home at a lower cost using the housing concepts that the companies develop and meeting several design goals.
The homes will be detached and semi-attached with two to three bedrooms and 1,200 square feet of space. They will also include energy conservation technologies, making them economical to maintain, said Mr. Kastl.
Some of the initial homes, to be completed by year's end, will be built using prefabricated modules and insulated concrete; later ones, to be finished in 1999, will include steel frame and solar houses. The authority will sell the homes to qualified low- and moderate-income buyers.
"We feel Atlantic City is an ideal place for the park because of the large volume of traffic that comes here for conventions," said Mr. Kastl. "But the technologies used here can be applicable to affordable housing projects throughout the state and nation."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The $11.5 million Madison Landing project in the Northeast Inlet section of Atlantic City comprises 62 mostly semi-detached homes, with some detached houses. (Matt Wargo Photography)
 
Map of Atlantic City, New Jersey, shows location of the Northeast Inlet

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTIC CITY HOUSING&URBAN REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY (89%); 

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTIC CITY HOUSING&URBAN REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY (NJ); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); GAMING (77%); FAMILY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); SUBURBS (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (67%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (67%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (67%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); APPROVALS (64%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (63%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: JAMES KENNEDY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



511 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1526 words

HEADLINE: Taking Care Of Those The Good Times Have Skipped

BYLINE: By JULIE MILLER 

 BODY:
A HOMELESS woman who slept for four nights in the front portico of Union Baptist Church in Mystic opened the community's eyes to a story behind the headlines hailing economic prosperity: The good times are leaving many people in eastern Connecticut behind.
The woman, in her late 20's, was given food, clothing and temporary shelter at the church. After she found a job, she left and never returned. But her plight moved the senior pastor of Union Baptist profoundly. 
 "She left $1.50 in an envelope for the church," said the Rev. G. Kenneth Carpenter. "I never saw her again, and I started to wonder what happened to her. All through the winter, I wondered where the woman went. I couldn't stop asking myself where she would sleep during February."
The experience prompted Mr. Carpenter and Mark Santucci, rector of St. Mark's Episcopal Church in Mystic, to organize a group of people from churches and social service agencies to address homelessness in Groton and nearby towns. The pastors said they are concerned that a growing number of people may need emergency help as they exhaust their limited resources.
Eastern Connecticut, often referred to as "the other Connecticut" when compared with affluent Fairfield County, is still reeling from the shift in the state's economy away from manufacturing. But the long-term effect on workers in the region is not a popular topic of public discourse.
"There is a basic reluctance to admit what's going on," said Mary McAtee, director of the Connecticut Coalition to End Homelessness. "For a significant number of people in Connecticut, things are going well. But we know the economy isn't what it used to be. It's no longer possible to support a family on one income. And we don't have the financial security we expected. It used to be that if we worked hard and did our best, our economic situation would improve. That's not the case now."
When the nation's unemployment rate fell last April to 4.3 percent, the lowest since 1970, Allen Sinai, chief global economist for Primark Decision Economics, an economic information and advisory firm, was quoted as saying: "This is as good as it gets for American workers in a sparkling labor market. Increasingly, the pendulum is swinging to the American worker."
In reply to a question about Connecticut's economy, however, Mr. Sinai said his statement did not apply to all parts of the United States. "I have no trouble backing down from that statement when it comes to Connecticut, which is very much a stereotype of what the national picture was three years ago."
Although the state has recovered from severe job losses, the recovery has not been shared equally. Thousands of families have been losing ground, according to the Connecticut Alliance for Basic Human Needs, an organization that provides information about public policy issues. As the labor market shifts from higher-paying manufacturing jobs to lower-paying service employment, many of the jobs recovered pay 30 percent less than those that were lost.
Other figures compiled by the organization show that:
* Income inequity in Connecticut, the richest state in the nation, has been growing. From the late 1970's to the mid-1990's, the gap between families with the highest and lowest incomes increased faster than in any other state.
* During the last 10 years, the state's low and middle income families have seen their wages decrease, after adjusting for inflation.
* By the mid-1990's, the richest 20 percent of families in Connecticut had an average income of $147,000. The poorest 20 percent had an average income of $10,420.
* Between 1984 and 1995, the number of working poor families with children in the state doubled. Working poor is described as a family of four with a yearly income under the federal poverty level of $16,050.
The nation's economy is undoubtedly doing well by some standards, said Edward Deak, professor of economics at Fairfield University. "The unemployment rate, job creation and the rate of inflation -- all these things are stellar," he said. "But if you look behind the data, you'll find that manufacturing in the Midwest has bounced back, while coastal areas -- like Maryland, New England and the West Coast -- are much different in their economic structure and job opportunities than they were 25 years ago."
In eastern Connecticut, anecdotes reflect current stresses: One couple holds three jobs in order to support themselves and their two young children. A woman who works from 6 A.M. to 3:30 P.M. suddenly loses the day care she had arranged for her child. "Without day care and an extensive network of friends, many parents are putting their children in less than desirable settings. It's a tremendous burden on people trying to do the best thing," said Don Muirhead, director of human services in Windham, a town hurt by recent layoffs at Electric Boat and Pratt and Whitney as well as closings of other large employers during the 1970's and 80's.
The number of adult men and women using state-funded shelters has increased by approximately 10 percent over last year, according to the Connecticut Coalition to End Homelessness. Countless people are living with friends or relatives or on the streets. Some who use the shelters are employed but unable to cover the cost of their basic needs.
"We need to create real opportunities for jobs that pay, housing that's affordable and services in the community to help prevent crisis," Ms. McAtee said.
Workers with little education were able to develop skills in companies like Electric Boat in Groton that for decades earned them premium pay, Mr. Carpenter explained. "We supported that as a government," he said. "We enticed them and inflated their income beyond their training, and then the government pulled the rug out from under them. They couldn't get a job earning one-third the amount they earned before."
The far-reaching effects of job loss in eastern Connecticut have left some people so disheartened that they are unable to find employment, said Mr. Carpenter. "Once they are pushed out of the workplace," he said, "something takes place in their spirit. The hit is so great that they just can't pull things back together."
The people who are thriving, Mr. Deak said, are professionals with technical skills, while the worker with only a high school education and weak or highly specialized training is falling behind. "It isn't surprising that you see these pockets of poor economic performance," he said. "You may be able to find similar stories in some communities in the state's large cities."
The Pawcatuck Neighborhood Center -- which serves Stonington, North Stonington and Westerly, R.I. -- distributed 5,014 bags of food to needy families in the nine months from July 1, 1997 to April 30, 1998 -- the equivalent of more than 75,000 meals, up from 60,000 in the 1997-98 fiscal year. The total is expected to reach 80,000 by July 30 of this year, according to the director of the center, Billie Ward.
The problems that have left families and single people with no income include illness or injury resulting in loss of a job, layoff from work that does not qualify for unemployment compensation, downsizing of a work force, problems obtaining day care, seasonal work, domestic violence and separation or divorce, according to Ms. Ward.
Although some residents in center's area are wealthy, others are in financial crisis. And appearances are deceiving, Ms. Ward said. "You can't always tell by where they live or the car they drive," she said. "I have clients from Stonington Borough and Mystic. This is the other Connecticut."
In Killingly, in the northeast corner of the state, several factories and other businesses shut their doors during the past year. There used to be a certain number of jobs available to people with limited skills. But those positions have been taken by more highly skilled people, said David Shumway director of a 60-bed shelter in Killingly that is almost always full. In addition, cutbacks in city and state welfare have left most people who use the shelter with no income. "The question is whether or not they can get on their feet with part-time, minimum-wage jobs that have no benefits, because that's all there is," he said. "One of the biggest frauds of welfare reform success stories is the fact that the jobs that do exist are extremely limited. People work hard and stay poor."
The latest Census figures show that Connecticut's population is stagnating, as people leave the state in search of better jobs and places to retire. Experts connect the situation to the decline of the military industry, which pushed up costs of living and doing business in the state -- costs that have failed to drop in the new reality.
Recovery across the nation, particularly on the East and West Coasts, has depended on industries like financial services, computers and medical technology. And Connecticut is working to develop other industries, including biotechnology. "Not everyone has the resources to respond to the change," Mr. Deak said. "The question is what can be done to bring those people along."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A family room at a homeless shelter in Norwich bears witness to the fact that economic boom times have missed the state's eastern reaches. "There is a basic reluctance to admit what's going on," said an advocate for the homeless. (Michael J. Doolittle for The New York Times)(pg. 1); When home is a bed in a shelter in Norwich and there's reading to do. (Michael J. Doolittle for The New York Times)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); 

CITY: LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (50%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: DECISION ECONOMICS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (50%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; RELIGION AND CHURCHES RELIGION (91%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); FAMILY (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); 

PERSON: MILLER, JULIE

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



512 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 3132 words

HEADLINE: Mosquitoes Are Out To Get Us. But We're Out to Get Them.

BYLINE: By ANDREA KANNAPELL 

 BODY:
A WHINE in the air. A sudden silence. That unmistakable stinging moment.
It is a sequence that has not changed, scientists say, for more than 100 million years, since the early descendants of the tropical Ur-mosquito were buzzing the Cretaceous era, enjoying a bit of Tyrannosaur tartare. 
 This year, the stinging, slapping and complaining have been gaining momentum. An El Nino-induced early spring gave the breeding season a jump start, and it has also been repeatedly drenched in mosquito-friendly rains. Whether the plague will continue is largely a matter of day-to-day weather conditions, the experts say, with occasional heavy rain promoting mosquitoes. But the indications are all extremely favorable. For the mosquitoes.
"It's hard to see how we're going to get out of this without a whole lot of mosquitoes," said Dominick Ninivaggi, who heads Suffolk County's $2 million mosquito control program, the largest in New York State with several thousand acres of its extensive salt-marshes known to be breeding sites.
North America counts about 170 species of mosquito, of which Long Island has 42. Not all of them bite humans. In fact, mosquitoes live on a diet of nectar. They pollinate flowers. In an adaptation that is usually mentioned to the accompaniment of bitter male laughter, only the females need blood. They use the protein for their eggs.
Researchers who identify species get to name them, which, it turns out, is an opportunity to exercise their senses of humor. Among the best-represented in this area is the genus Aedes, which includes the species excrucians, intrudens, provocans, sticticus and vexans. In the genus Coquillettidia, one species is named perturbans.
The counteroffensive has mobilized. Mondays and Tuesdays, inspectors in Suffolk and Nassau hunt for larvae. Tuesdays and Wednesdays, they check their traps for adults. Thursdays, from trucks and helicopters, workers fling larvacide pellets into the standing pools of brackish water hiding among the dunes along Jones Beach, into Long Island's vast stretches of salt marsh, and into the freshwater red maple swamps of Suffolk County. If all else fails, they fog adult mosquitoes with toxic mist.
But the whats and the whens and the whys of mosquito control are all different from -- and far more environmentally sensitive than -- what they used to be.
Prevention is the first order of business, and it takes the form of year-round wetlands management so environmentally friendly that nature conservancy agencies and groups have become willing partners. "The mosquitoes are in the wetlands, and the mosquito people work in wetlands, and we're interested in improving the quality of the wetlands for wildlife, and we find it's to our mutual benefit to work together," said Harry Knoch, regional wildlife director of the State Department of Environmental Conservation.
Last winter, 1,300 acres of sensitive salt marsh was restored in the first year of a decade-long, $10 million cooperative effort involving the state conservation department, the Suffolk County mosquito unit, the Long Island National Wildlife Refuges and Ducks Unlimited, a wetlands preservation group. Another 700 acres are being considered for restoration next winter, some of them in Nassau County, as part of the same effort, known as the Long Island Wetlands Restoration Initiative.
Workers have removed dikes from abandoned salt-hay farms, encouraging daily tidal flow, and have plugged ditches that drained the marshes twice daily. Although it increases the amount of standing water, this process helps to assure that fish can penetrate breeding areas. Workers even dig ponds so the fish can stay in mosquito-friendly spots even when water levels are low. The fish eat the larvae. The returning shore birds eat the fish. An ecological system gets healthier.
The wetlands management also discourages an invader weed called phragmites, which edges out the native wetlands grass, spartina, and is a better host to mosquito larvae.
"Some of us have money, some have equipment, some have manpower," Mr. Knoch said. "Collectively, we can do much more than any of us could do individually."
Nassau County mosquito inspectors don't even sample the water in nesting areas of the endangered piping plover without the company of a plover steward. It's a surprising twist for a field whose image, if it exists in the public imagination at all, is that of a huge, governmentally wielded can of Raid.
It was not always so. When Long Island's mosquito control started in the 1930's, before the era of DDT, cutting-edge technology meant ditches, and W.P.A. workers dug thousands of miles of them to drain salt marshes. Nassau County alone has nearly 1,000 miles of such ditches.
"The concept behind their work was that if you take the water off the marsh, you take out the mosquitoes," explained Craig Kessler, who heads the Long Island branch of Ducks Unlimited. "And that worked. But it also took out the food chain."
That resulted in a loss of habitat for the indigenous black duck and a "whole host of species," Mr. Kessler said, which are now being re-established in the restored marshes. Ducks Unlimited, an international group with 700,000 members, was founded in 1937 by Joseph Knapp, a hunter who realized that waterfowl breeding habitats were being destroyed by the encroachment of farms throughout the midwestern prairies. His great-grandaughter, Mr. Kessler noted, is Sibby Penny, a Southold resident. "She's quite active in our Peconic Bay chapter," he said.
Last winter's Restoration Initiative project included 470 acres at the Wertheim National Wildlife Refuge in Shirley, 90 acres at the Seatuck National Wildlife Refuge in Islip, and 100 acres of Suffolk County parkland in Sayville, according to Robert W. Parris, a project leader for the wildlife refuge.
The Restoration Initiative has focused on salt marshes so far, but the mosquito agencies have been quietly using similar procedures in freshwater swamps. Meandering ditches can reduce sheetwater, where larvae, which must breathe at the surface and feed on the bottom, flourish. But the ditches can be engineered not to dry the areas out, leaving the habitat intact for birds and other creatures. And standing water can be deepened into ponds and stocked with the guppy-sized mosquitofish, Gambusia affinis, a larval vacuum.
The mosquitofish has also proven useful for some manmade breeding grounds: those early drainage ditches meant to control mosquitoes, left untended, can fill and become new breeding areas.
Mosquito agencies try to spread the word to municipalities and homeowners that even tiny amounts of standing water can serve as breeding areas for some species. They tell stories of larvae in forgotten pails, swimming pool covers, even bottle caps.
Careful, thorough monitoring means that larvacides and other chemicals are only used when problems are documented. Inspectors drive around, sampling water for larvae and checking traps for adults. They count the take and identify the species in the lab. They send some to the state laboratory in Albany to be tested for disease. They take "landing counts," in which inspectors stand still for one minute and count how many mosquitoes land on them. Only when a portrait of a local mosquito population is complete is it time to prescribe a pesticidal treatment.
Expensive biorational agents -- substances that interfere with the life cycle of the mosquito, but with virtually nothing else -- are the weapons of choice for spraying. Some are preparations of bacteria that attack only larvae of a certain age. For instance, the helicopters buzzing Jones Beach in the early morning are usually spreading B.T.I. (Bacillus thuringiensis israelensis), which, when ingested by a larva, destroy its stomach. That, and a longer-acting biorational, Bacillus sphaericus, are accepted by even the most cautious environmentalists.
Other compounds mimic the mosquito's growth hormone, preventing larvae from emerging as adults, but leaving them alive and well as fish food.
The point is to get the mosquitoes as early as possible, before they take wing and spread out.
"If we can't control them in the early phase, with fish, or using environmental means, or chemical larvacides," said Greg Terrillion, who heads Nassau County's mosquito agency, "then we're upland fogging. And those materials just aren't as specific to mosquitoes."
On Long Island, the preferred "adulticide," as the fogging chemicals are known, is resmethrin, a synthetic version of a chrysanthemum derivative that attacks insects' nervous systems. It's a powerful material, sold under the brand name Scourge. But even it is used in an environmentally friendly compound, which evaporates entirely in minutes. Organophosphates, which are still used in neighboring states to kill adult mosquitoes, are not allowed in New York.
It's a far cry from the early methods, which, besides extensive ditching, included spraying sheetwater with heavy oil to smother larvae. And of course, DDT, a chlorinated hydrocarbon, was a popular pesticide, until evidence of its pervasive and long-lasting toxicity became widely known in the early 60's.
New York has some of the most restrictive pesticide regulations in the nation. Every use of pesticide must be reported to the state, in part so that researchers can see if there is any connection to Long Island's cancer level, which has been found to be high. When pesticides are used, only a person licensed by the state to apply them is allowed to handle and disperse the materials. "We need a full-time staff person just to make sure that we comply with all the laws," said Mr. Ninivaggi, the Suffolk mosquito man.
In terms of biting, some of Long Island's most troubling species are Culex pippians, the common house mosquito; Aedes vexans, the floodwater mosquito, and Aedes sollicitans, the salt-marsh mosquito. This mosquito lays its eggs at the rack line, the inland reach of the twice-monthly lunar tides. Untouched by the daily tides that would wash them away, the eggs go through a necessary drying phase, and then, at the new moon or the full moon, are soaked, enabling larvae to hatch. The biting will begin about a week later, perhaps 10 or 12 days later if the weather remains cool.
Left uncontrolled, the experts say, much of the South Shore would be uninhabitable.
A recent example in Nassau County proved the case. The mosquito problem had been reduced by the end of the 80's, thanks in part to the installation of sewers, which helped eliminate standing water. In 1992, with the recession hitting full force, Nassau County reduced its payroll by 3,000 workers, and the mosquito control unit was essentially eradicated.
Then, in 1996, one of the wettest summers on record, the mosquitoes took over Jones Beach, the county's most prolific mosquito breeding area.
"There were signs saying, 'No refunds due to insects,' " recalled Mr. Terrillion. "You'd see mom and dad, with the kids and the coolers, getting out of the car in the parking lot. And in the time it took them to walk to the sidewalk, they turned around and went back to the car."
In both Nassau and Suffolk, the mosquito agencies are divisions of the Department of Public Works, where there is enough equipment and manpower to do wetlands management. But, in testament to lingering fears of mosquito-borne diseases, which kill millions in less-developed areas of the world, both divisions work cooperatively with their county health departments.
"Just because people are not getting sick here doesn't mean we can relax," said Mr. Ninivaggi. "We're not just abating a nuisance."
The salt-marsh mosquito is widely believed to be a carrier of eastern equine encephalitis. It has been found in Long Island mosquitoes four of the last five years, Mr. Ninivaggi said, but the deadly disease is usually only a problem during long, hot summers in which the disease overruns birds, its host population, and begins spreading to horses. Humans are also susceptible, but such cases are rare.
Only one genus, Anopheles, carries malaria, and its only local species, quadrimaculatus, is not common on Long Island. Malaria is caused by a protozoan that mosquitoes ingest with blood and then inject into victims as part of their blood-thinning saliva. (The complex demands of the transfer process insure that H.I.V. cannot be spread by mosquito bite.)
Malaria hasn't been evident on the island since the 30's. But it has come as close as New Jersey, as recently as 1991. New Jersey state health officials say that two people were infected after local mosquitoes bit people who had come from the tropics with untreated malaria.
There is even a sort of killer bee of mosquitoes threatening to invade Long Island: Aedes albopictus, the Asian tiger mosquito. An aggressive daytime biter that breeds easily in urban settings, it has been spreading through the United States since its arrival from Asia, where it is an active disease carrier, in a boatload of used tires in 1985. Identified in New Jersey in 1995, the mosquito seems to have paused in its expansion. But ports and marinas on Long Island are being carefully watched.
"We've been looking for two years, but we haven't found any tigers yet," Mr. Ninivaggi said.
These days, watching is a crucial part of mosquito control. Inspectors have identified exactly which areas mosquitoes breed in. In Suffolk County, records of the locations are being painstakingly transferred into a computerized mapping system that will include complaint and treatment histories for each site. The "Service Request" computer screen has a little box marked "Compliments" next to the "Complaints" entry, but Mr. Ninivaggi just laughed. "We don't need a computer to keep track of compliments," he said.
 
SKEETER EATERS: FACT AND FICTION
Some predators of mosquitoes get little credit and some get way too much. Dr. Wayne Crans, chief entomologist of the New Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station, sets the record straight.
 
GAMBUSIA AFFINIS This inchlong freshwater fish eats hundreds of larvae an hour. It bears live young -- 120 to 400 a year -- and so requires no special environment to spawn. And unlike most fish, it tolerates warm, shallow standing water, making it ideal for adding to stormwater basins, ditches and freshwater marshes.
 
KILLIFISH Like Gambusia, these fish eat mosquito larvae, but are generally less tolerant of fetid water.
 
BATS Mosquitoes make up a very small percentage of insectivorous bats' natural diets. Research that suggested otherwise was based on 1950's echo-location studies, in which bats were released in rooms full of nothing but mosquitoes. Those bats ate up to 10 mosquitoes a minute. That finding has been extrapolated to suggest that an average-sized colony of 500 bats would remove at least a quarter million mosquitoes an hour. In fact, bats usually vastly prefer moths, beetles and other non-pest insects.
 
PURPLE MARTINS There is a bit of utterly false popular wisdom that says this bird can eat 2,000 to 14,000 mosquitoes a day. But that is based on the calculation of the number of insects it would take to maintain the purple martin's body weight. In fact, purple martins will eat a few mosquitoes, but they prefer dragonflies and other insects. And dragonflies eat mosquitoes.
 
DRAGONFLIES Immature dragonflies stand at the edge of ponds and pounce on mosquito larvae. Mature dragonflies fly "patrols" over ponds, catching mosquitoes in midair and eating them in flight. Dragonflies will even follow mosquito broods into fields. ANDREA KANNAPELL
 
The Repellent Truth
ONLY female mosquitoes bite, and only because they need a meal of blood to acquire the protein necessary to lay their eggs. These critters find their quarry by detecting the carbon dioxide from the animals' breath, as well as lactic acid and other, less studied byproducts of metabolism.
Scientists have confirmed that some people are much more attractive to mosquitoes than others: Sweaty people are more appealing than non-sweaters, adults more than children, men more than women, and larger people more than smaller people.
But the scientists don't know why this is so; if they did, they might have devised a truly effective mosquito repellent. Meanwhile, we're stuck with repellent wannabes and impostors, and some that actually are slightly more noxious to mosquitoes than they are to humans.
Some plants supposedly repel mosquitoes, but in "Mosquitoes and Mosquito Repellents: A Clinician's Guide," published in the June 1 edition of Annals of Internal Medicine, Mark S. Fradin writes that the best-known repellent plant, the Citrosa, a genetically engineered hybrid of lemon grass and geraniums, has been shown to be ineffective. So have bug zappers, which electrocute other varieties of insects but not mosquitoes, and novelty electronic devices that emit high-frequency sound waves.
That leaves topical repellents, which work by evaporating at the skin surface, creating a "fog" that wards off the insect. The most common is DEET (N,N,-diethyl-3-methylbenzamide) -- the active ingredient in commercial sprays like Off -- which was patented by the United States Army in 1946. The chemical can be toxic, particularly to children. Products with 10 percent to 35 percent concentrations of the chemical are considered adequate under normal conditions. High temperatures and sunscreen reduce its effectiveness.
Citronella, the oil of a grass, can be an effective but short-lived repellent, requiring frequent reapplication. It is the most common active ingredient in repellents marketed as "natural," like Buzz Away (5 percent), Herbal Armor (15 percent) and Green Ban for People (5 and 10 percent).
Several years ago, Avon Skin-So-Soft, a bath oil reputed to function as a repellent, was tested in laboratory conditions and found to provide 30 to 40 minutes' worth of protection against at least two mosquito species. (And there's the rub: Mosquito species are many and mobile, so you have no way of knowing which types are in your yard.) Avon has since added trace amounts of citronella oil to its Skin-So-Soft products.
A plant-based repellent that is new to the United States, Bite Blocker, combines soybean oil with geranium and coconut oil. Canadian studies show that it gave nearly 100 percent protection from some mosquito species for more than three hours.
A final category of repellent is a contact insecticide. Permethrin, a synthetic form of an African chrysanthemum, is the active ingredient in lice treatments as well as in aerial sprays that kill adult mosquitoes. It is applied to clothing and gear, like tents and sleeping bags, rather than to skin. ANDREA KANNAPELL

GRAPHIC: Photos: Long Island is home to 42 species of mosquitoes. One of them is Culex pippians, the common house mosquito, which is among the most common biters. (Herbert Schwind/Photo Researchers); Aedes sollicitans, the salt-marsh mosquito, hatches twice monthly, at the lunar high tide. The biting begins a week later. (Rutgers University); Aedes vexans, the floodwater mosquito, is another local species that is a particularly troublesome biter. (Rutgers University)(pg. 1); Greg Terrillion, who heads Nassau County's mosquito control agency, taking a sample from a marsh behind Jones Beach. Biological remedies are his preferred weapon. (William Lopez for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AE (BIT) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (54%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AEDES SPA (54%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOSQUITOES WEATHER (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); WETLANDS (89%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (87%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (84%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); EL NINO & LA NINA (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (64%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: KANNAPELL, ANDREA MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



513 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 4; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY;
New Horizons For Frequent Fliers

 BODY:
Trans World Airlines has begun a new frequent-flier program, called Aviators, to replace its Frequent Flight Bonus program. Mileage from the old program has been transferred to Aviators. The new program offers benefits based on money spent as well as miles flown, quicker access to higher program levels and changes in award levels. Members are awarded one bonus Aviator mile for each dollar spent on full fares in first class, business or coach. Flights between cities less than 750 miles apart require only 15,000 miles for coach or 30,000 miles for first class. Longer domestic flights cost 25,000 miles for a coach ticket and 40,000 miles for first class. More information: (800) 325-4815.
Airtran, formerly Valujet, inaugurated its A-Plus Rewards program in March. Airtran customers earn free travel through the end of the year, redeemable on Airtran and several other airlines (America West, American, American Trans Air, Continental, Delta, Eastwind, Midway, Midwest Express, Northwest, Reno, Southwest, T.W.A., United and US Airways). 
 All travel must be either to or from Atlanta, Orlando or Washington.
Participants collect flight credit vouchers before departure. Those traveling in coach class receive one voucher for each one-way trip, those in business class receive two. Twelve vouchers are needed for a travel-reward certificate. One travel-reward certificate is required for a free round-trip ticket on any Airtran flight, and two certificates are required for a round-trip economy class ticket on another airline.
Free tickets on other airlines are available only for nonstop or direct round-trip flights to cities that Airtran does not serve within the United States (except Hawaii and Alaska) or to the Bahamas from Atlanta. Thirty days' notice and a Saturday-night stopover are required.
Redemption of a reward certificate for an Airtran flight does not require the Saturday-night stopover or 30-day advance notice. All credit vouchers must be redeemed for certificates by March 31, 1999. Certificates may be used for travel through December 2000. More information: (888) 327-5878.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BAHAMAS (79%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: TRANS WORLD AIRLINES (TWA) AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANS WORLD AIRLINES (TWA)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BAHAMAS (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; DISCOUNT SELLING AIRLINES (92%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (91%); LOYALTY MARKETING (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



514 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 3; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Q&A/Paul Collard;
The Arts Meet the City in New Haven

BYLINE: By MELINDA TUHUS 

 BODY:
PAUL COLLARD was hired last fall to be the director of New Haven's International Festival of Arts and Ideas, now in its third year and running this Wednesday through Sunday.
Mr. Collard, 42 years old, is a native of Britain and attended Trinity College in Cambridge, England. In 1987 he wrote a report on the role that the arts play in the economic regeneration of cities. Just before his arrival in New Haven, Mr. Collard served as chief executive of Northern Sights, a visual arts festival in northern England. 
 In a recent interview in his office overlooking the New Haven Green, Mr. Collard seemed unable to contain his enthusiasm over this year's New Haven festival. He repeatedly knelt in his chair and leaned over a table to illustrate one point or another, talking in rapid-fire sentences and pulling on his mop of dark brown hair. He had just returned from the London world premiere of "Copenhagen," a play by the Royal National Theater of London that will be at the Long Wharf Theater as part of the festival. Following are excerpts from that conversation.
Q. What was your role in the Northern Sights festival?
A. I directed the Visual Arts Festival in Newcastle in the north of England for 37 weeks in 1996. I think arts are at their best when most deeply rooted in the community in which they are taking place. The last coal mine in the Newcastle region closed down in the mid-1990's. There was incredible desolation. Then along came me and said, "We are doing a visual arts festival," I said, "It's up to you people. You are going to do it." That struck at the heart of many people's belief that you need all these experts to do art. And they did incredible things.
Q. What interested you in this job in New Haven?
A. I am interested in the role that the arts can play in terms of making profound social and economic changes within a community. There are two camps: A is "high art," or art for art's sake; B is "community art" where what comes out is not as important as the process. If you can connect A with B you get something remarkable.
People in the festival in New Haven had a similar ambition. There were profound social and economic issues that needed to be addressed, but they did not want to lose sight of the fact that the work needed to be of the highest quality.
Q. How did you go about getting to know the community?
A. During the first few weeks I met with lots of people in the community, asking them questions about where they see this city going and what they see as their role. I think there are two issues: the economic stabilization and regeneration of downtown, and the social issues.
This is a city of very rich and complex structure, with 126 ethnic communities, most of them completely invisible. Imagine the cultural life of New Haven to be an iceberg with only the tip of it showing.
We want to develop an arts festival that is more reflective of the whole society. I get told all the time that diversity is a problem. I come from a tradition that says diversity is what makes cities wonderful.
Q. How exactly will these people be involved in the festival?
A. Through the part of the festival we're calling Downtown. It used to be called Art on the Edge, and that was a very important part of the beginning of the process. This year we're putting it along Orange Street.
We went out to the neighborhoods and said, "We want you to create art that is reflective of your culture, of who you are." Eleven groups will be presenting at different venues. Some of them are neighborhood groups, some are local cultural groups. Each one is getting a visual artist to work with them and a budget to create their project. The total budget is $70,000 to $80,000. Each group will get between $2,000 and $2,500. In addition, we pay the performers and build the stages.
Q. Do you also have regional artists performing?
A. Yes. We wrote to 2,500 performance groups in Connecticut. Forty-two of them were selected, and they, plus the 11 local groups, will be performing on three stages set up along Orange Street.
Q. What is the relationship of the festival to city government?
A. The festival is an independent nonprofit organization. Its honorary chairs are Yale president Rick Levin, the Governor, John Rowland, and Mayor John DeStefano Jr. It's a partnership. I am a servant of the mayor even though I'm not on his payroll.
Q. How do you see the festival having an impact on the stabilization and regeneration of downtown?
A. If the economic regeneration agenda is going to work, it has to get people to come back to the city after the festival is over. The main guide to the festival has lots of ads for restaurants and shops downtown. We are being incredibly focused in our marketing. We did a targeted mailing of 125,000 for the ticketed events to people in the suburbs and beyond to come here and spend money. They would not get programming as good as this outside of New York City. The free stuff is not promoted to them.
Q. You have greatly expanded the children's offerings this year. What does that schedule look like?
A. We have a huge kids' program. We're going to have four days of nonstop programming on the Green during the afternoons. It's going to be very interactive, and not just arts, but ideas too, like hands-on science projects. We're targeting kids through their moms by doing a promotion with Stop & Shop and People's Bank.
Q. The "Ideas" part of the festival seems to get lost among all the arts offerings. This year that part is called "Big Ideas for the New Millennium." Have you put more emphasis on it than formerly?
A. Yes. We want it to be ideas about life in general, not just ideas about art. At the same time, we don't want to create an academic conference, but rather to address the concerns of ordinary people.
We're sponsoring a three-day event on cities that will address what works, the future of cities, and a design workshop specifically discussing New Haven's problems. We've commissioned a project by Tracie Morris called "Grown Over Ivy," which explores the relationship of Yale to the community. It's a series of intertwined monologues that are based on real interviews -- mostly with African-Americans who work at Yale but live in New Haven and have to make sense of that. The monologues have been fictionalized because they are so personal there was concern that people could be identified, but also because we wanted to transcend the particular.
Q.You have lined up some very popular acts for the free evening performances on the Green.
A.Yes. For example, Leahy, a Canadian-Irish group will be performing on Friday night, which will also serve as the kick-off for the Irish festival in North Haven that weekend. Little Richard is scheduled for Saturday. People told us if we bring El Gran Combo and the Barrio Boyzz to the Green on the same program -- which we're doing on the closing night of the festival -- we can expect 100,000 people.
Q.The festival you worked on in England was part of a larger vision of a millennium celebration. Do you think New Haven has a cultural vision?
A.I don't think you can run a successful cultural festival unless there's a cultural plan. We have become very involved in that, along with the arts council, the business community, Yale and city government. I chair the committee, which stands alone from the festival but in fact most of the people on the committee happen to be on the board of the festival.
Q.You came here with just a one-year contract. Do you think you'll be staying past the festival?
A.I'm in discussion with the board about staying longer. We both want that.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Collard, director of New Haven's International Festival of Arts and Ideas, on stage at the Green. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN (CONN); ENGLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ART; FESTIVALS HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); THEATER (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL ARTS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CITIES (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (65%); 

PERSON: COLLARD, PAUL; TUHUS, MELINDA

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



515 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: The World: Sorry, You Can't Reach There From Here;
In Africa, Dreaming of a Wired World

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG

 BODY:
AFTER relatively rich South Africa, which African country has the highest percentage of cellular phones among telephone users? Ghana? The Ivory Coast? Kenya? Nigeria?
None of the above. The correct answer is the desperately poor, badly shot-up Democratic Republic of the Congo, where the regular telephone system -- where it exists at all -- is so decrepit that cellular is often the only option. 
 Cheerleading for the dream of an African renaissance is all the rage these days on the continent, but without better telecommunications it will be as hard to spread wealth and democracy as it would have been for Florence and Chartres to spread Renaissance culture without the old Roman roads.
Only about 1 in 300 people in sub-Saharan Africa has a phone, making the financial opportunities huge. Most companies marketing heavily to rural Africa are pushing low-technology goods like beer, cigarettes, detergent and fertilizer. But impoverished Africans also need telephones to relay family news and money, just as many poor New Yorkers do when they patronize storefront phone shops.
For example, failing to come home for a funeral is a grave social offense in Africa. When a village doesn't have a phone, someone must go to the city simply to tell others that a villager has died.
 
A Phone in Every Village
"Africans spend a huge proportion of their meager incomes going places they could reach by phone," said Piers Letcher, a spokesman for the International Telecommunication Union, a Geneva-based United Nations affiliate. "People who need food will pay for telecommunications -- they're transferring money from their transportation budgets."
Contrary to common wisdom, rural telephones can make money if the goal is one phone in every village, not one in each hut. Bakary K. Njie, managing director of the national telephone company of tiny Gambia, took on the risk of laying a 250-mile fiber optic cable through the hinterland and attached 300 privately owned 24-hour phone centers. Villagers walked miles to line up outside the centers, which soon paid for the costly cable installation.
The continent's obstacles are huge, however, and politics is a bigger one than poverty, malarial jungles or the snows of Kilimanjaro. Hard as it is to wire the one billion people in China, at least they all live in one country -- Africa's 740 million people live in 55. Those African nations that don't have overwhelming problems like civil war have simpler ones, like bureaucratic sloth and dishonesty.
Each country has different telecommunications laws -- or none at all. And many governments earn a big chunk of their budgets through their doddering telephone monopolies. The money comes from tourists and executives in hotels that gouge so deeply that the phone bill often tops the room bill, and from the fees paid by American and European carriers for incoming calls connected through the monopolies.
 
Red Tape
There are also absurd inefficiencies. For example, in a colonial legacy, a call from South Africa to next-door Mozambique was until recently routed through both London and Lisbon. Even when a country wants to improve its phone service, pythons of red tape can encircle the effort.
Suspicion of complex technology is high. Bashir Ahmad el-Rufai, president of Intercellular Nigeria, said he had to approach 20 Nigerian banks to raise a mere $10 million for his network. "One banker asked us to line up a buyer for my telecom equipment if it didn't work -- as if it was used furniture I could get rid of," he said. Approaching foreign bankers was pointless, he added, because they are afraid of Nigerian corruption.
Later this year, the ultimate in phone technology is set to roll out: hand-held phones able to call from anywhere on the planet to anywhere else, thanks to new networks of dozens of low-orbit satellites. It's expensive but ideal for Africa's vast unwired spaces.
Getting bureaucrats in 55 countries to sign licenses is a nightmare, though. "A civil servant's job is fairly tenuous in Africa," said John A. Richardson, head of Iridium Africa, which has a satellite network. "Seeing us means writing a position paper for the minister, and so on. Why do that if you can get away with doing nothing?"
On the plus side, corruption seems to be abating. Mr. Richardson said he had been steered toward signing on local partners related to government officials, but had "never personally bumped into an overt or covert request for a bribe."
 
A New Frontier
Pekka Tarjanne, secretary general of the International Telecommunication Union, is an optimist for three reasons: technology is rapidly becoming cheaper, the fading of socialism means privatization is no longer a dirty word and minister of telecommunications is now an important post in many countries. In 36 countries, the post offices no longer run the national phone systems. In 10, there are competing cellular phone companies.
Even pie-in-the-sky ideas seem not so crazy these days. Joseph Okpaku, a Nigerian-American entrepreneur, attends conferences trying to rustle up funding for his dream company, Telecom Africa. His goals are to reverse the African diaspora, create pan-African affirmative action and make everyone involved rich. His vision is to recruit engineers around the world to come back to Africa to design and produce telecommunications equipment here.
Hopelessly romantic? Maybe not. Iridium is one of six new satellite companies competing to serve Africa, and one way they can make friends is to make their equipment here.
As Mr. Letcher of the International Telecommunication Union said, "If you can create 10,000 jobs in Africa, you'll land the deal."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Only about 1 in 300 Africans has a telephone, so centers like this one in South Africa are vital links to the outside world. (Graeme Williams for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFRICA (99%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); GHANA (92%); KENYA (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); NIGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); GAMBIA (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (50%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (54%); INTERNATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATION UNION (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); INTERNATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATION UNION (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; AFRICA (99%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); GHANA (92%); KENYA (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); NIGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); GAMBIA (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (50%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); BUDGETS (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); TELEPHONE RATES (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); POLITICS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (75%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (73%); RETAILERS (73%); MALARIA (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); TRENDS (72%); FIBER OPTICS (70%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: MCNEIL, DONALD G JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



516 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 3; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2697 words

HEADLINE: A Rental Builder Shifts to High Gear

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER 

 BODY:
THE circle of developers who build and then continue to own and manage rental apartments in Manhattan for the long term is small. "It's no more than six or eight people, maybe 10, and they all know each other," said Aby J. Rosen.
Now Mr. Rosen and two partners, Michael Fuchs and Trevor Davis, are moving to catapult themselves into that small circle of Manhattan owner-builders, among them several of long standing who are still producing new rental buildings. They include Leonard Litwin of Glenwood Management, the Resnick family through the Resnick Organization, the Elghanayan family of Rockrose Development and Daniel Brodsky, Bernard Spitzer and Donald Zucker. 
 Through a development partnership known as RFR Davis, Mr. Rosen, Mr. Fuchs and Mr. Davis have set in motion more new residential projects in Manhattan in the late 90's than any other development company, with perhaps the exception of The Related Companies, which is doing both commercial and residential development. Starting from zero only a few years ago, they are seeking to build a portfolio of several thousand apartments within a few short years. Most of their sites are on the East Side, where they are easily the most active builder.
"We plan to stay here, and to grow to 25 buildings, and create a concentrated portfolio," said Mr. Rosen, whose given name, Aby, is pronounced A-bee, accented on the first syllable. He and Mr. Fuchs, both 38 years old, are lifelong friends who grew up together in Frankfurt, Germany. Their partner, Mr. Davis, is from South Africa.
"We plan to have a total of 3,000 to 3,500 apartments," Mr. Rosen said. Most of them will be in new luxury buildings that they build themselves, he said.
In the 80's, market conditions were such that such an aspiration might have seemed implausible. At that time the market seemed incapable of supporting the rent levels that builders needed to justify the prices they were paying for land, and most new projects were built as condominiums.
But by the early 90's land prices had dropped, and before long rent levels were strengthening also, setting the stage for a resumption of rental building. "Condominiums make money but leave an investor with the problem of how to reinvest it," Mr. Davis said. He and other developers have now returned to building rentals, intending, as Mr. Davis put it, to build wealth for the next generation.
In 1994, when the group started buying land, there had been almost no new luxury residential construction for seven years, Mr. Davis said. To the three partners, luxury rental construction looked like the surest way to build a real estate asset base in New York City, where all three men say they want to keep their business roots. But it is also a flexible product, he said. "You always have the option of going the other way, converting to a condominium."
The partners already own 1,400 apartments in nine buildings. Most were acquired to assure longterm light and air for new buildings on neighboring lots, and in some cases to provide additional development rights in a merged zoning lot. Most of their building sites, however, are smaller than the 20,000 square feet -- 200 feet on the avenue and 100 feet on the sidestreet -- that many large builders prefer.
Only one of the new RFR buildings is completed and fully occupied so far. A rental at 300 East 64th Street, on the southeast corner of Second Avenue, it has 103 apartments and opened in 1996.
A second building, Eastbridge Landing, at 377 East 33d Street, on the west side of First Avenue between 33d and 34th Streets, is close to completion and is already 70 percent leased and 50 percent occupied. It has 209 apartments on its 22 floors.
Sixty of the apartments, on the third through the seventh floors, will be operated as the Envoy Club, a residential hotel for longterm occupants, scheduled to open in August. The club will be reached from a separate elevator in the lobby.
Another building, Wellington Tower, on the southwest corner of 82d Street at First Avenue, will have 156 apartments on 18 floors, with stores on the avenue side. Construction has reached the level of the sixth floor and occupancy is expected by the end of this year.
Beyond these projects lie well-advanced plans for the development of six more sites. Four of them are on the Upper East Side. One is the so-called Cottages site, on the west side of Third Avenue between 77th and 78th Streets. There the partnership plans a condominium named the Empire, replacing a Third Avenue blockfront structure that has stores on the ground level and one level of apartments above that face a handsome interior garden. Each of the garden apartments has its own garden in front, giving the group the semblance of a row of cottages.
A local group, the Coalition to Save the Cottages and Garden, has worked to preserve the garden as a landmark. It should become a permanent community amenity, accessible to all, as part of any reconstruction of the property, said Deborah Balcourt, a leader of the coalition.
The garden can be seen by the public through a gate at the 78th Street side of the property. At present it is an amenity for the Cottages tenants, but it is also used by the residents of the adjoining 12-story rental at 177 East 77th Street, who can enter it from their lobby. RFR acquired both properties from the same ownership. The Landmarks Preservation Commission has declined to hold a hearing on the issue.
There are six remaining residential tenants on the site for the new building, one of whom was an employee of the former ownership. The rest are longterm elderly residents, two of them rent-controlled and three rent-stabilized. Mr. Rosen said he expected construction to begin in the fall.
The other buildings planned for the Upper East Side are Century Tower, on the southeast corner of 90th Street and First Avenue; the Seville, on the southeast corner of Second Avenue and 77th Street, and the Impala, on an irregularly shaped lot with 100 feet of frontage on the east side of First Avenue on the midblock between 75th and 76th Streets, and additional frontage on the sidestreets.
ANOTHER site for future development is on the northeast corner of Fifth Avenue and 38th Street. The building there, 425 Fifth Avenue, is to have 195 apartments, plus retail and office space and another Envoy Club residential hotel.
And in Tuckahoe, N.Y., construction will begin next month on RiverVue, the $32 million redevelopment of a former Revlon factory and surrounding property into 88 rental apartments and 13 for-sale town houses. The site is off Scarsdale Road and Lake Avenue, diagonally across Main Street from the Tuckahoe Metro North railroad station.
The site plan calls for a lighted riverwalk on the Yonkers side of the Bronx River, which runs through the 8.8-acre property, plus a tennis court and outdoor pool, and parking, both covered and uncovered, for 161 cars. In addition there will be a 126-unit assisted living project on the site, to be built and operated by Kapson Senior Quarters Corporation, of Woodbury, L.I.
Time is of the essence to RFR Davis. A construction schedule for new projects is already laid out through 2001. Although RFR Davis is the joint-venture development company, Mr. Davis has his own investment company, Davis & Partners, as well as a construction company, Davis Construction, and a management company, Wolf Management & Leasing, which runs the partners' buildings. HRH Construction Corporation, a division of the Starrett Corporation, is the construction manager on the RFR projects. It has set up a group of eight senior executives solely to handle the RFR assignment.
Separately, Mr. Rosen and Mr. Fuchs are allied in a real estate investment company, RFR Holding LLC, formed in 1991. But the recent ventures have been done in partnership with Mr. Davis. "RFR" stands for Rosen Fuchs Real Estate.
Only the Empire on Third Avenue and 77th Street, with 87 apartments on 34 floors, is planned as a condominium. Its apartments "will probably sell for about $1,000 a square foot," Mr. Rosen said. That suggests that most of them will cost more than $1 million. The rest of the Manhattan buildings are rentals. The financing is conventional, not the "80-20" tax-exempt financing that other builders have used recently, which provides low-income occupancy in 20 percent of the units. To stimulate variety in design concepts, a variety of design architects have been selected.
All the projects have been been built as-of-right, without special zoning approvals, and all use the Section 421a tax abatement offered by the city, which means that the rentals will be rent-stabilized for 10 years after construction. To get the abatement, the developer bought tax-abatement certificates that other builders generated by building mortgage-free low-income housing. RFR Davis itself is building 560 low-income apartments in seven projects -- in the Bronx, Staten Island, Brooklyn and Queens -- to generate these certificates.
Mr. Rosen and Mr. Fuchs are the sons of postwar commercial developers in Frankfurt. "We've known each other since kindergarten in 1962," Mr. Rosen said. His father, Isak, now 72 and retired, is an Auschwitz survivor. His mother, Anni, also survived the Nazi years, hidden under a false name for five years by a Christian family in Belgium.
Mr. Fuchs's father, Don, 78, is also retired. During the war he was hidden in the basement of a Christian friend in eastern Poland, the son said. His non-Jewish mother lived through the war in Lodz, Poland.
The sons are both married to Americans. Both couples live on the East Side, and both have two children. Mr. Rosen's are boys; Mr. Fuchs's are girls.
"We are lifelong friends who have invested together," Mr. Rosen said. "We came to the United States planning to start a company." Before they did it, Mr. Rosen spent three years working in the New York office of Jones Lang Wootton, the British real estate firm, attracting German investment capital to American real-estate ventures. Mr. Fuchs, who arrived in the United States in 1987, earned a business degree at the University of Southern California.
IN the early 90's, the real estate market was at its nadir and financing from American banks was tight. But RFR was buying, helped by a line of credit from German financial institutions and by funds from the partners' families, who were planning a gradual transfer of their investments from Germany to America.
The partners bought about 2.5 million square feet of midtown and downtown office space in the early 90's, Mr. Rosen said. Some of it has since been refinanced as values rose, he said, generating the equity for residential site acquisitions.
They also formed a company named Classic Realty, which owns 1,000 co-op apartments that have never been sold for owner occupancy. Among these are more than 500 apartments in the former Bing & Bing buildings on the Upper East Side, which were converted from rentals to co-ops or condominiums in the late 80's.
In 1995 the partners joined forces with Mr. Davis, whose father, Desmond Davis, ran a South African heavy-construction firm that bore his name. Mr. Davis, 43, started out doing doing subsidized home construction in South Africa in a business that was affiliated with his father's. He came to the United States seeking greater professional opportunity.
After studying architecture and engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, he went to California and started to develop an office building in downtown San Diego, helped by family financing.
Eventually he sold that property and came to New York to work for Olympia & York U.S.A. on office buildings it was developing. He left Olympia & York after declining to transfer to London to work on its ill-fated Canary Wharf venture, and decided to try development on his own.
In 1993 he noticed a sign reading "Trafalgar House" in a partially excavated lot at Second Avenue and 64th Street, the announcement of a development plan that never materialized. He found the owner and put down $100,000 to secure the right to buy ther property for $2.5 million within a year. Within that year he also found RFR Holding, and the Second Avenue site became their first joint venture.
"We are all immigrants and every immigrant grows up dreaming of this great city," Mr. Davis said. "It's an amazing place to be, in good times and bad. And I've always wanted to build high-rises."
The first one, 300 East 64th Street, has turned out to attract a large number of short-stay occupants. About 10 of the leases are in corporate name, but in 15 more "that we know of" the leases are in an individual's name but the rent is paid by a corporation, said Felicia Harrison, who is in charge of leasing for Wolf Management.
In the first year of operation, there was a 40 percent turnover of the tenancy, Ms. Harrison said. She estimated that half the tenants are singles and that the average annual income of residents, including year-end bonuses, is $200,000.
Marianne Dolan, a 38-year-old investment professional working for a money management firm, rented a 17th-floor one-bedroom in 1996 and now pays $3,000 a month for it. She said she travels a great deal, gets to her apartment late at night, and is grateful for the fifth-floor sauna and steam room. She has worked in Chicago, San Francisco and Greenwich, Conn. "This is my first time in New York since college, and I'm loving it," she said. A single person needs an income of about $125,000 to $150,000 a year to afford the rent she is paying, Ms. Dolan estimated.
To cater to this type of tenant, the building has 76 one-bedroom apartments. Only 21 apartments are two bedrooms or larger.
IN contrast, the East 33d Street building, Eastbridge Landing, has many more two-bedroom apartments -- 52 of them -- but they are laid out in such a way as to make sharing easy by two adults not living intimately together. The apartments have central entrances and separated one-bedroom suites, each with its own bathroom, off to either side. The kitchen is at the center.
The architect for Eastbridge Landing is Costas A. Kondylis. "In two-bedroom apartments we've found it's preferable to have the bedrooms separated even when it's used by one family," Mr. Kondylis said. What began in several buildings as a floor plan suited for apartment sharing, because it promotes privacy, has become the rule rather than the exception in two-bedroom apartments, he said.
The rents at Eastbridge Landing average $1,950 for studios, $2,550 for one-bedrooms, and $4,100 for the two-bedroom two-bath apartments (with a range of $3,800 to $6,000). The building was provided with an 800-square-foot "business center" with a computer and modem, a fax machine, a copier and a phone. "We've learned that nowadays a lot of tenants like to work from home," Ms. Harrison said.
In later projects there are different design architects: H. Thomas O'Hara of Manhattan for Century Tower; the Office of Robert A. M. Stern Architects for the Seville and 425 Fifth Avenue, and for the town houses in Tuckahoe; Michael Graves of Princeton, N.J., for the Impala, and Hartman-Cox Architects, a Washington firm, for Wellington Tower and the Empire.
The New York firm of Schuman Lichtenstein Claman & Efron is doing the interior layouts for most of the buildings. Peter Claman, a principal in the firm, said that a distinguishing characteristic of the apartments done for RFR Davis was that all the units have washer-dryers, "even studios."
"The room sizes are larger and the kitchens are larger than in most other market-rate rentals," Mr. Claman said.
But perhaps the greatest asset of the new buildings will be their presence in highly desired East Side locations with little new housing production. Elena Arredonda, who is in her late 20's and works for the U.S. Tennis Association in White Plains, rented an apartment at 300 East 64th Street a year ago after looking at about 15 apartments in other buildings.
"I wanted a one-bedroom apartment in a building less than 10 years old, and I wanted to be in the East 60's," Ms. Arredonda said. "That doesn't leave many options."

GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, Aby J. Rosen, Trevor Davis and Michael Fuchs, the principals of RFR Davis, with a model of planned project at First Avenue between 75th and 76th Streets. At right, RFR project at 377 East 33d Street nears completion. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Drawings: Rendering of Wellington Tower, left, on southwest corner of 82d Street and First Avenue. Occupancy is expected by the end of the year; Drawing shows garden in back of Empire at Third Avenue and 77th Street. It would replace existing garden in front of the Cottages. (Renderings by Hartman-Cox Architects)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (54%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: RFR DAVIS RELATED COS LP (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: RFR DAVIS

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (69%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (54%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RENTING AND LEASING REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (67%); PRICE CHANGES (66%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S; ROSEN, ABY J; FUCHS, MICHAEL; DAVIS, TREVOR MICHAEL J FUCHS (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



517 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Nevada Test Site;
Sign of the Times at a Once-Secret Base: For Rent

BYLINE: By VERNE G. KOPYTOFF 

DATELINE: MERCURY, Nev.

 BODY:
TO visit the Nevada Test Site, the nation's primary nuclear proving ground for more than four decades, and stand near a crater blasted deep into the desert bedrock, is an exercise in silence.
The dry lake beds and thorny plains where scientists detonated nuclear weapons during the cold war are now, in peacetime, mostly devoid of activity and hundreds of sheds and warehouses that once housed personnel and research facilities are now eerily empty. 
 So it may be surprising that this test range, as big as Rhode Island, polluted in places with radiation and shielded behind a veil of secrecy, is described in a brochure as "open for business."
And it may also be surprising that employees of the Federal Department of Energy, which controls the test site and the nation's nuclear program, now use phrases such as "commercial development" and "private investment" alongside traditional test site jargon like "kiloton yield."
In an effort to generate money and promote economic development here in southern Nevada following a moratorium on nuclear testing in 1992, the Government has begun to transform parts of this base -- where the staff has been cut from 10,000 to 2,500 -- into a business park of sorts.
Companies are invited to open facilities at the test site -- whose main entrance is near this small town 65 miles north of Las Vegas -- with the unusual lures of restricted access and absence of neighbors who, for example, might complain about the use of toxic chemicals.
The three-year-old program is similar to the Defense Department's effort to help communities hurt by military downsizing. But there are some important differences: The test site is under no threat of closing, has no plans to sell off land and is mandated to stay ready for nuclear tests in case international tensions rise.
"This is a site with characteristics that don't exist anywhere else," said Tim Carlson, president of the Nevada Test Site Development Corporation, the nonprofit organization financed by the Energy Department to market the test site. "In there, you find a niche. Take the aerospace industry, for example. Where else can you find restricted airspace in the United States? Where else can you launch a reusable rocket?"
The only tenant so far is Fluid Tech, a company that cleans equipment contaminated with low-level radiation. To its relief, it has found a warm welcome inside a massive abandoned hangar with steel blast doors, cleaning bays and an overhead crane. There, in the 60's, scientists tried to develop a nuclear-powered rocket.
FLUID TECH had built a facility in the nearby town of Amargosa Valley, but was blocked from opening by local opposition. Dean Rowsell, president of Fluid Tech, said that his company had avoided hassles by situating its operation in a desolate valley 15 miles inside the test site, even though the five-year lease cost "as much or more as in Las Vegas."
"But we're willing to pay it because we have a pretty good idea of the problems we'll go through there," he said, referring to environmental and political problems he would experience in Las Vegas.
Fluid Tech's staff of about 40 workers and those Government employees not housed on the base live in such surrounding communities as Las Vegas, Amargosa Valley, Tonopah and Pahrump, all within two hours' drive of the test-site entrance.
One company that expects to move to the test site within the next two years is Kistler Aerospace, which is planning to launch satellites from the base on the world's first fully reusable rocket. Launches require restricted airspace and dozens of square miles of flat open land for the rockets to return -- if all goes well -- using a parachute and airbags.
The company anticipates building a launch pad and several buildings for flight control and assembly, representing a $45 million investment. Robert Wang, chairman of Kistler Aerospace, said that his company was attracted by the availability of utilities (unlike remote sites elsewhere) and equipment and the potential of hiring part-time skilled personnel.
Other businesses expressing interest in signing on for one of the various vacant buildings or at an industrial park planned around the base airport include a company that recycles carbon, a liquid-oxygen manufacturer and a company that is developing hydrogen enriched natural gas for cars. One firm that is considering building a solar power plant on the test site is now negotiating with potential customers.
Businesses that move into the test site must still get state licensing and follow environmental laws, which are generally less restrictive in isolated locations. They must also get approval from a board, which weighs such factors as the impact of the business on national security, safety, interference with a neighboring Air Force base and the creation of high technology jobs that could go to laid-off test site workers.
That eliminates tennis-shoe manufacturers, for example, according to Richard D. Betteridge, an Energy Department official who is working to bring new activities to the test site. Even in the unlikely event that such a business would want to be so far from a city where workers could live, its presence at the test site would not benefit the Government's mission to create skilled jobs and diversify southern Nevada's growing, but still casino-dependent, economy, he said.
Mr. Betteridge added that one man who wanted to open a juvenile drug rehabilitation program was "obviously turned down in one telephone call." Other companies, he said, lose interest once they learn that the test site is not immune from regulation.
SOME people come out here and think 'I can do anything, I can pollute all I want,' " Mr. Betteridge said. "Once they find out that's not the case, they don't call back."
Among the marketing offerings are some for only temporary use, such as an existing hazardous chemical spill center, which companies like DuPont could lease for a few weeks to conduct safety drills. And officials at the test site are also trying to attract more government work, perhaps an antiterrorism center where engineers would blow up mock buildings to learn how to build with more durable materials. Universities are welcome to use the test site for research, an Energy Department said.
But much of the test site will probably never be considered for commerce. Parts of the base are reserved for secret military projects, future nuclear detonations and an underground nuclear-waste depository called Yucca Mountain, which is scheduled to open in the next century. In addition, there are occasional nuclear experiments not involving a chain reaction, crater fields, and a small portion of land contaminated by radiation.
Commercial development is a profound transformation for the test site, which has been the nation's primary venue for nuclear weapons testing since 1951. Over the years, 928 nuclear devices have been detonated, at first in the atmosphere, then deep underground after the harmful effects of radiation became better known.
The work stoked the economy in the neighboring rural counties and gave life to Mercury, the restricted Government town on the test site at which hundreds of scientists once spent the night in dormitories. After the Cold War ended and much of the staff left, the town's movie theater and bowling alley were closed.
If nuclear tests resume, the Energy Department says new companies at the test site will not be thrown out nor be contaminated by fallout. But some may be kept from their facilities as a precaution for, at most, a few days when tests are scheduled.
It is too soon to say whether there will be much of a demand in the business world to locate at the test site. However, Mr. Carlson explained that his goals in marketing the base were fairly modest.
"We're not going to make a major profit on this," he said, "but we want enough money to be able to continue the service and drop the cost of operating the test site."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dean Rowsell, president of Fluid Tech, at his company's plant at the Nevada Test Site. (Verne G. Kopytoff/The New York Times)
 
Map of Nevada shows location of Mercury, Nevada

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (95%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ENERGY DEPARTMENT FLUID TECH CORP (76%); NEVADA TEST SITE DEVELOPMENT CORP (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA; UNITED STATES (95%); NEVADA, USA (95%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; REAL ESTATE; NUCLEAR TESTS MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); COLD WAR (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); WATER POLLUTION (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); LAKES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (60%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (52%); 

PERSON: KOPYTOFF, VERNE G JAN CARLSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



518 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 4; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1768 words

HEADLINE: IN PERSON;
Let There Be Peace, and Trade

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON 

 BODY:
ALL successful people, or at least the famous ones, have stories that are part of their personal mythologies: Richard M. Nixon and the lessons from his father's struggling grocery store, Babe Ruth and the aimed home run, Wild Bill Hickok and a fatal poker hand of aces and eights.
The story about Guy F. Tozzoli, an engineer, international trade expert and nominee for the Nobel Peace Prize, began on an afternoon in 1930 when he and his pal John Bignoli, both 8-year-olds growing up in North Bergen, went to see "All Quiet on the Western Front." He left the old Loew's Embassy at 74th Street and Bergenline Avenue transfixed by the closing image of Lew Ayres being shot by a sniper as he reached for a butterfly in the trench mud of World War I. 
 "I didn't realize it at the time, but I had just seen my first antiwar movie," Mr. Tozzoli said recently, seated on a cream-colored sofa in his corner office on the 77th floor of Tower One of the World Trade Center in lower Manhattan. "I came out of there wondering if I would have the courage to do what they did in that war."
He also came out wondering about the nature of war and peace, subjects that have returned to color his life in ways that could not have been foretold by a young engineer from New Jersey, a graduate of St. Peter's Prep in Jersey City and Fordham University, and a veteran safely returned from the Navy and World War II and a detour to the Korean War.
Instead of going to work for the contracting company of his father, Silvio, Mr. Tozzoli went to work for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. And from his early days developing airports and shipping facilities at the Port of Newark to his career as the builder of the World Trade Center and later the Port Authority's director of world trade, Mr. Tozzoli came to see world trade as not only a producer of money and jobs, but also as a promoter of the kind of international peace that so eluded the world in the century's big wars.
It was a connection that reached a kind of pinnacle for Mr. Tozzoli last year when he was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, for which he has again been nominated this year. Mr. Tozzoli's transformation from champion of trade to soldier of peace came about in the kind of small, logical steps that engineers favor, steps that come from listening and making connections.
"I come back from two wars and I go to work at the port building piers," he said, "and who do I meet? Japanese, guys who went ashore at Iwo Jima before we did, and now we're working together!"
The young engineer began formulating one of his many ideas -- Tozzoli's Laws -- about the nature of business: "If we're doing business together, we're not going to fight each other because if I owe you money, you're not going to shoot me."
Mr. Tozzoli, 78, said he learned the same lesson over and over as he rose to become director of world trade for the Port Authority, working from the twin office towers he had helped build. Business people from around the country and around the world would often ask, "What's a trade center, and if it's good for New York, why shouldn't it be good for other cities?"
Once retired from the Port Authority, Mr. Tozzoli set out to institutionalize the answers to those questions by creating the World Trade Centers Association, a nonprofit group he founded and still heads. It helps business people create their own trade centers across the country and overseas, and then signs them up for membership in his organization.
That was in 1970. Today, the association has 326 members in 97 countries, all serving as clearinghouses for practical information about the import-export business, helping with translators, providing lists of banks, taking messages, offering meeting space and generally creating the one thing marketplaces still need: a place to meet.
"Why do we have bazaars?" Mr. Tozzoli demanded in his emphatic style. "To bring people together to do business. The same thing with shopping malls! It's all there to bring buyers and sellers together."
He calls the trade centers around the world "one-stop shopping centers" for world trade. But Mr. Tozzoli turned out to be helpful in more than just business.
Dealing with foreign governments required a diplomatic touch as well. China balked for three years at joining the World Trade Centers Association because Taiwan was already a member, Mr. Tozzoli said. The solution: to list members by city, not country, so the Taiwanese would not have to be carried as Republic of China. Beijing joined.
Later, as Prime Minister F. W. de Klerk opened talks with Nelson Mandela on ending apartheid in South Africa, the men chose the only neutral, non-political and non-ideological location they could think of as a site for negotiations: the World Trade Center in South Africa. Mr. Tozzoli carried off the same stealth diplomacy in what was then the Soviet Union, bringing in several countries that had no relations with Moscow to discuss trade.
He had become so well known as a diplomat of trade that a movement got under way last summer, starting in South Korea and working its way across Africa and Europe, to nominate the World Trade Centers Association and Mr. Tozzoli for the Nobel Peace Prize. Last year's prize went to an anti-land mine group, but he has been nominated again this year, with testimonials compiled in a little book, put out by the World Trade Centers Association, whose title, "Reaching for Butterflies," looks back over the years and the miles traveled to that matinee in North Bergen.
Here is Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the former ruler of the Soviet Union and a 1990 recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize: Mr. Tozzoli and his association, he writes in the book, "is helping in the progressive circles of the world leaders in establishing the elimination of arms and other dangers and has been instrumental in finishing up the cold war."
And Archbishop Desmond Tutu of South Africa, the 1984 Peace Prize winner: "Peace through trade is the goal of Mr. Tozzoli and the World Trade Centers Association. It is not only a goal, but, in many cases, it has become a reality."
And Mr. de Klerk: "I believe that the efforts of Mr. Tozzoli and his organization are an example of what open communications can do to further world peace and understanding."
Mr. Tozzoli, in an interview, put it this way:
"When you're promoting business, you're promoting peace. Because when I understand your aims and your culture, I don't have any reason to declare war on you, and instead we work together. When I started at the Port Authority in 1960, world trade was 3.6 percent of our gross domestic product, and now it's 20 percent. World trade and our advances in technology is what has created the prosperity that we have."
Now, Mr. Tozzoli has embarked on a new venture called the Trade Card, a result of a further round of listening to people's questions. Trade Card, which he has patented, is software that operates as a kind of credit card for international trade.
"People kept asking me, 'How can we reduce paperwork in an international transaction, and how can we reduce costs and increase control?' " Mr. Tozzoli said.
After all, he noted, the bank letters of credit on which many small importers depend place a large amount of control in the hands of the issuing lenders. If, say, the maker of baby carriages or bicycles is late in shipping an order, changes in the letter of credit must work their way back to the bank, with small fees applied along the way. Mr. Tozzoli says Trade Card software allows the two principals in an international deal to control the elements of an effort, from contract to delivery.
"If I have learned anything, it's never give up," Mr. Tozzoli said. "You always run into problems, but if you stay at it, you will find a way. That's the truth."
 
International Institute Helps Immigrants Cross Bridges to Their New Lives
WHILE waiting for word on the Nobel Peace Prize, Guy F. Tozzoli collected another award last month: the Rachel Davis Dubois Human Relations Award from the International Institute of New Jersey.
The 80-year-old International Institute, based in Jersey City, is a descendant of the immigrant aid groups that arose around the turn of the century, when newcomers flocked to settlement houses like Hull House in Chicago to learn English and other skills that would help ease their transition into American life.
These days, the International Institute helps more than 3,500 clients from 70 countries each year, said Dr. Nicholas Montalto, its executive director. Among its programs is an annual awards ceremony to honor promoters of peace and the attainment of the American dream.
On May 20, the institute's second annual American Dream Celebration presented its Dubois Award, named after a pioneer in multicultural education, to Mr. Tozzoli for his work in promoting world peace. Mr. Tozzoli, founder of the World Trade Centers Association, has used his contacts with world leaders to ease the transition from conflict to business cooperation. he was instrumental in helping South Africa's former prime minister, F. W. de Klerk, reach an accommodation for a democratic South Africa with Nelson Mandela.
The institute awarded its Golden Door award to John Bailye, an immigrant from Australia who heads his own software company, Dendrite International Inc., based in Morristown.
In presenting the Dubois award to Mr. Tozzoli, Dr. Montalto said: "Although you will never see any documentation of this, it is my understanding that Mr. Tozzoli had the highest vote tally for the Nobel Peace Prize next to the winner. He was the builder of the World Trade Center, and once it was constructed and successful, he has been worked all over the world to promote peaceful human relations."
Continuing programs at the institute include these projects:
* A cross-cultural mental health service that provides counseling to Haitian, Latino, Vietnamese and Russian-speaking clients using licensed bilingual therapists.
* An immigration law center that provides advice and assistance in family matters, labor certification, political asylum, deportation and immigration court procedures.
* An interpreter referral service that provides translators for court and pro-bono assignments in more than 25 languages.
* A program for immigrant artists that assists traditional and folk artists in developing their creative skills and marketing their work.
* A resettlement program for refugees, under contract to the Department of State.
Information about the institute is available by calling (201) 653-3888.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Guy F. Tozzoli, president of the World Trade Centers Association, at the spot where it all started. Or did it start in North Bergen? (Edward Keating/The New York Times); Guy F. Tozzoli, who was honored by the International Institute. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (65%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (65%); WORLD TRADE CENTERS ASSOCIATION (59%); WORLD TRADE CENTERS ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE CENTERS ASSOCIATION (59%); WORLD TRADE CENTERS ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PEACE; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); NOBEL PRIZES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); HARBORS & PORTS (85%); WORLD WAR I (75%); WORLD WAR II (73%); POKER (72%); KOREAN WAR (68%); PORT AUTHORITIES (67%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER; TOZOLLI, GUY F RICHARD NIXON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



519 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 5; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
Teen-Age Job Safety

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
With a historically low unemployment rate, the United States Department of Labor expects more teen-agers than ever to be working this summer in fast-food stores, groceries, nursing homes, amusement parks and summer camps. In an effort to prevent deaths and injuries, the Labor Department has begun a "Work Safe This Summer" campaign to teach teen-agers, employers and parents about workplace safety.
The department estimates that half of working teen-agers will be employed this summer in fast-food outlets and grocery stores. Another third will work in nursing homes, schools, amusement parks and summer camps. And some will find employment on farms. 
 Automobile accidents are the leading cause of death for working teen-agers, but each year young workers are also seriously hurt or killed driving tractors or operating forklifts, the Labor Department said. Many young workers are burned by hot grease in fast-food outlets or injured in slips and falls. Others have lost fingers operating meat slicers or dough mixers. Still others are cut while handling sharp knives used to open boxes at grocery stores.
In response, the Labor Department has identified jobs that are too dangerous for teen-agers who are 17 and younger: driving, saw milling, roofing, excavating and operating power-driven meat slicers and using dough mixers, paper-balers and wood-working machines.
Labor Department workers will travel throughout the United States this summer to talk with employers, teen-agers, their parents and others to determine what can be done to reduce the number of deaths and injuries to working teen-agers.
Child labor laws are enforced by the Department of Labor's Wage and Hour Division, part of the Employment Standards Administrations. The number to call for more information is (212) 219-8743.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (71%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT FAST FOOD (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); CHILD LABOR (78%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (77%); CHILDREN (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (71%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (69%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



520 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: OFF THE RACK;
They Almost Killed 'Best Places'! Now Try to Find It.

BYLINE: By FRED BROCK 

 BODY:
THE July issue of Money magazine contains its 12th annual survey of the best places to live in America -- sort of.
Tacked on like an unwanted stepchild, the survey is the last 2 pages of a 21-page section on "super deals." It lists only 12 cities and lacks its usual rich detail, which the magazine advises readers can be found at its World Wide Web site (www.money.com/ bestplaces), along with the full list of 300 cities and an interactive feature that lets users pick their own best places based on personal criteria. This assumes, of course, that readers have Internet access. 
 It's all part of Money's effort to remake itself and retain its commanding lead in the increasingly crowded field of personal-finance magazines. Such "best places" articles, which Money practically invented, have become widespread and overdone in recent years; some have turned quirky and gimmicky in an effort to stand out. All this apparently prompted Money editors to rethink their approach. Initially they were going to kill the survey, but then decided to run it in a truncated form.
They may want to think again.
Media reaction around the country has been huge. Local and regional newspapers gave the survey heavy play, as did did television and radio news broadcasts. It also made network TV news.
Part of the heavy coverage was because the magazine listed the Washington metropolitan area as the best big Eastern city in which to live. And, of course, every city wanted to know its place on the list.
The Washington selection was a surprise to many who were used to a litany of bad news coming out of the nation's capital about crime, drugs and schools. But for the city and its suburbs, clean air, good health care, low property taxes and cultural institutions helped tip the scale.
Money's favorite Midwestern city was Minneapolis; for the West, it was Seattle, and for the South, Norfolk, Va.
So an article that almost wasn't generated a lot of publicity for Money. By the way, Money's managing editor, Robert Safian, said he had decided "right now" to kill another survey, the magazine's seven-year-old annual college review, which usually runs in the September issue. Stand by.
 
A SECOND LOOK In Worth magazine's July-August issue, Jim Rogers, an economic columnist and the author of "Investment Biker," asserts that despite the bad publicity from its recent nuclear tests, India is emerging an an economic superpower. Citing its large middle class and skilled work force, Mr. Rogers says India will generate profits for investors over the next 5 to 15 years. He acknowledges however, that this depends on peace in the region. "Economic success has a way of making war look like an ever more costly proposition," he writes. "My guess is that India will see the light."
 
POLITICS AND COMPUTERS July's Smart Money, in a Washington column by Albert R. Hunt and Alan Murray, points to the political dangers facing Vice President Albert Gore Jr. if the worst fears about the so-called millennium bug, or the year 2000 problem, are realized. If the problem spirals out of control, they argue, the Clinton Administration and especially the Vice President -- who has aligned himself with high-technology issues -- won't escape the fallout. This is an issue on which the Republicans are already sharpening their knives.
 
MONEY FROM WATER The July issue of Individual Investor explores ways to profit from water, which is getting increasingly expensive as its demand soars. For instance, the magazine points out that it takes 40,000 gallons to produce enough steel for just one car. Some companies that it thinks could profit from this growing demand are American Water Works, Ionics, Nalco Chemical, United Water Resources and United States Filter.
 
DEAL TIME If you were prescient -- or lucky -- enough to have dumped some stock when the Dow topped 9,200 in April and that cash is burning a hole in your pocket, Money magazine's series of articles on super deals -- what the editors call great products at great prices -- may be just your thing.
For bargain-hungry shoppers, Money's pick of a high-end outlet mall is Woodbury Common Premium Outlets in Central Valley, N.Y. If you're in the market for a diaper bag for the baby, the recommendation goes to a deluxe model from Lands' End for $49.50. Looking for something a little more exotic? How about a MIG-15 UTI, a jet trainer used by the Soviet air force in the 1950's and 1960's? It can be yours, ready to fly, for $110,000 from Fantasy Flyers in Sante Fe, N.M.
If you like to travel, Money points to a $2,500 around-the-world ticket offered jointly by Air Canada, Lufthansa, SAS, Thai Airways, United Airlines and Varig. The ticket is good for up to a year and you can plan your trip as you go.
The articles have sidebars in which celebrities disclose their "best deal." Some are disingenuous, to say the least. Like Peter Lynch's collection of 3,116 pennies worth $31.16. Or the model Tyra Banks's $8.98 purse from Wal-Mart. Or Martha Stewart's $1 heart-shaped garden hoe.
But some are refreshingly honest, like Donald Trump's and Michael Dell's. The Donald cites 40 Wall Street, an office building he bought for $1 million two and a half years ago that is estimated to be worth $100 million today. Mr. Dell's best deal? The $1,000 he invested to found the Dell Computer Corporation on May 2, 1984.
 
ON LINE A new magazine, Online Investor, is aimed at those who use the Internet for financial research and investing. It is published every other month by MVP Media in Chicago. Jan Parr, the editor, said it might go monthly early next year. Money.com, a one-time special issue by Money magazine on the same subject, will be on newsstands until Aug. 10. A Money spokeswoman said it could become a regular publication.
 
BITS AND PIECES July's Bloomberg Personal explains how to read between the lines of a company's annual report . . . Kiplinger's July issue lays out more charges and fees that are in the works for credit card companies' "profit enemies" -- users who pay their bills in full each month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UWR (NYSE) (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MONEY (MAGAZINE) UNITED WATER RESOURCES INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONEY (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PUBLIC OPINION POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); WRITERS (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (86%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); TRENDS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); LABOR FORCE (60%); 

PERSON: BROCK, FRED

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



521 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 5; Style Desk 

LENGTH: 2490 words

HEADLINE: Bringing a Son Up Right (Right Up to the Top)

BYLINE: By MONIQUE P. YAZIGI 

 BODY:
AT the Fifth Avenue offices of Earl G. Graves Ltd., employees step with almost military precision. Secretaries in crisp yellow suits make sure appointments are kept to the minute, while a receptionist announces visitors within seconds of their arrival.
Inside the hunter-green office of the man whose name is on the door, however, the atmosphere is considerably homier, almost a suburban den: children's crayon notes and athletic awards cover the walls. This is fitting, since Earl Graves, the multimillionaire publisher of Black Enterprise Magazine and the chief executive of the nation's largest minority-controlled Pepsi-Cola franchise, is in business with all three of his adult sons. 
 Seated across from a picture of his two elder sons, Earl Jr. and John, facing off in a Yale-Brown basketball game, Mr. Graves swept his arm to take in the photograph as well as the opulent surroundings and said, "Someday, this will all be theirs."
In this classically sentimental expression of family succession -- the punch line of so many New Yorker cartoons -- Mr. Graves spoke earnestly for millions of fathers who, in every age, have groomed sons to follow in their footsteps.
A bulwark of American life since the days of small farms hacked from the wilderness, the tradition of sons' succeeding fathers in the workplace may be less routine now, in an era of working women, large public corporations and economic prosperity that gives offspring the freedom to strike out alone.
But father-to-son succession is alive and well in a surprising number of big New York enterprises, in fields as diverse as real estate, public relations and sports ownership. The men who own and run them are often at the core of the city's power structure. After completing the task of all good fathers -- hectoring sons to finish homework, mow the lawn and respect Mom -- they have taken on the added job of shaping ambitious, field-hardened mini-moguls.
Many of their sons, in their 20's, 30's and early 40's, are being groomed as the next generation of New York's power elite. They schmooze one another both inside and outside office hours, forming alliances that mirror those that their fathers enjoy.
"It's great to see so many of my friends' sons now friends with my own sons," said Howard J. Rubenstein, the public relations czar, who is a power broker in political and business circles.
"S.O.B.'s" is how his son Steven Rubenstein, 28, characterizes the 18-member breakfast club he started with Jeff Wilpon, 36, a son of Fred Wilpon, an owner of the the New York Mets baseball team.
That's Sons of Bosses.
Guests at the breakfast meetings have included Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew.
"We're all friends," Jeff Wilpon said of his fellow baby moguls around town, who include William Rudin, 43, a member of a prominent real estate family, and Jonathan Tisch, 44, an owner of the Regency Hotel and a son of Robert Tisch of the Loews Corporation.
"We do business," Mr. Wilpon said. "We socialize. I help them. They help me. It all runs together."
Today, Father's Day, is a reminder that a major attraction of fathers' and sons' working together is that it provides an opportunity to maintain intimate ties into the adult years of the younger generation -- rare in a highly mobile society.
"It's great to have a son with you," said Fred Wilpon, whose midtown office is on the same floor as Jeff's. "It continues the dialogue for the rest of your life."
To be sure, there are eager and ambitious daughters being groomed by fathers to take over businesses (and daughters and sons being groomed by mothers), but even in this modern world, the old, traditional way is still the path most commonly followed.
"It is surprising, but in 1998 the most predictable and most common person to take over the helm of a family business is the oldest son," said John Davis, a senior lecturer at the Harvard Business School and an author of "Generation to Generation" (Harvard University Press, 1997), a study of family succession.
Although the pride and satisfaction of grooming a son, and of being groomed by a father, are abundant, there are also manifest perils, according to Mr. Davis and other family business experts (not to say psychotherapists).
Fathers, Mr. Davis has written, often complain that sons are in too big a hurry to take over, or that sons too readily risk the company that was built from scratch by years of toil. For their part, sons say that fathers use business situations to instruct on how to live one's life, making sons feel as if they were still little boys.
Here are portraits of four New York families in the process of handing major businesses from fathers to sons:
 
The Wilpons
A Son in a Hurry To Run the Mets
From the time he was 10, Jeff Wilpon has been eager -- maybe too eager -- to follow his father. At that age he carried a homemade business card identifying himself as Director of Construction. His father, Fred Wilpon, was an owner of Sterling Equities, a real estate conglomerate he founded with his brother-in-law Saul Katz.
In 1980, when Jeff was a high school senior in Roslyn, N.Y., his father and uncle bought the Mets. Jeff was so gung-ho to join the front office that he gave up every boy's dream -- a potential career as a professional athlete. He had been drafted by the Montreal Expos out of college and believes he could have started at catcher in the major leagues, he said, but quit after one spring training session to join the family business.
"I always knew I wanted to do what my dad did," he said, sitting, like his father, with legs crossed in Fred Wilpon's office in Sterling Plaza, on Fifth Avenue at 47th Street. From time to time, his father glanced dotingly at him.
Robert W. Lear, a former chief executive of F. & M. Schaefer who is now executive in residence at the Columbia Business School, said that when being the owner's son is the main qualification for the top job of a big company, a business can find itself on shaky footing: many young men being groomed to take over by fathers would not make it as chief executives in publicly owned companies, where family ties are irrelevant. "They're not tough enough," Mr. Lear said.
Mindful of this, Fred Wilpon insisted that before his son join the family company, he should work for another builder, starting at the bottom, sweeping floors on job sites.
"I wanted him to wear boots and be in the field," said Fred Wilpon, adding that he sought to toughen his son by having him work for bosses who would not show favoritism.
Later, when Jeff joined Sterling Equities, he rose to his present position as chief officer of development and construction, overseeing planning for the new stadium that the Mets want built.
In Jeff's office there is a picture of his 2-year-old son in a Mets hat. Does Jeff expect his child to be the third generation to join the company?
"One hundred percent," he said.
 
The Rubensteins
Keeping Sons From Competing
 Howard J. Rubenstein used to throw the daily newspapers onto the kitchen table and have his two sons, Richard and Steven, read the articles and recite the answers to the classic journalism questions: who, what, when, where, why and how.
Mr. Rubenstein's own father was a reporter for The New York Herald Tribune and took him as a boy to fires and murder scenes. In turn, he said, "I wanted to teach my boys what I did." So he took them on the rounds of his trade as a publicity agent -- to hundreds of parties, dinners and political fund-raisers.
Mr. Rubenstein started both his sons in the mail room of the 160-employee family company, which represents clients like the Duchess of York and George Steinbrenner.
After getting advice from other fathers with more than one child in a family business, he assigned them to separate divisions to keep the peace. "They are very different people, and I didn't want them competing with each other," he said.
"Richard has a flair for entertainment," he added. "Steven is more civic-minded."
Today, Richard, 32, is head of two spinoff companies, one with entertainment and small-business clients, the other representing publicly owned companies. Steven, 28, represents real estate companies and political causes.
"I wanted each one of them to have their own areas of responsibility," their father said. "In the beginning, when they came in, they did not report to me. They were trained by other people. It gave them a far greater sense of independence and a way to prove their own merit.
"I'm their father. It's different if they came in reporting to me. Each one was helped by senior people."
When the day comes for Howard Rubenstein to step aside, the biggest question might be which son will inherit his palatial 30th-floor office on the Avenue of the Americas at 55th street, which overlooks Central Park and New Jersey and whose window sills are lined with 100-odd hard hats from the buildings of real estate and construction clients.
"It will be divided in half," Mr. Rubenstein said with a laugh.
"Let's get out the tape measure," Richard said.
 
The Graveses
Sons as Polished As Their Dad
 Earl Graves maintains that the family that skis together stays together. Not to mention the family that spends summer vacations together and sends its shoes out to be shined together.
Mr. Graves, his wife, his three sons, their wives and their children all take family ski trips to Vermont and Colorado, and they spend summer vacations at two facing houses in Sag Harbor, N.Y.
Every Tuesday, the father and sons take their shoes to the office to be sent out for shining. "You must be presentable -- you must look good," Mr. Graves instructs his sons, who all favor, as he does, power business suits with suspenders.
Despite the appearance of having raised a matched set, Mr. Graves said he never forced his sons to follow in his footsteps; instead, as they grew up in Scarsdale, N.Y., he tried to make the business world alluring by inviting corporate titans like Sanford I. Weill of the Travelers Group to the family dinner table.
Another paterfamilias who believed his sons should not taste success too easily, Mr. Graves refused to give them cars at college. He would lend them a vehicle, but if their grades fell he would take it back. He also had his sons cut grass and work in the company mail room during school vacations. Some summers, Michael, the youngest, drove a Pepsi truck. Today, at 31, he runs the family soft-drink distributorship, Pepsi-Cola of Washington.
John, 35, a lawyer, is general counsel to the family business. Earl Jr., 36, who is known as Butch, is president of Black Enterprise.
When they all first worked together, it wasn't always smooth. "Butch and Johnny, I would say, were very vocal in their disagreements," the senior Mr. Graves said. Former Ivy League basketball rivals, they would sometimes take disputes into the hallways.
"I would bring them into my office," Mr. Graves said, "and say: 'This is not a basketball court. We are executives. We must act like owners of the company.' "
 
The Sterns
A Daughter Wants a Shot, Too
 In the family of Leonard Stern, one gets the impression, there is very little sentimentality regarding father-son matters. His sons, Emanuel, 35, and Edward, 33, call him Leonard, not Dad.
"If I didn't think they could make it, I would pull them out," said the senior Mr. Stern, chairman of Hartz Mountain Industries, the pet-food conglomerate that also owns more than 175 buildings.
"If not, it would destroy their lives," he said. "The peer group for owners' children is very tough. You really have to prove yourself. I've seen too many kids whose grandparents started a company with ruined lives."
His children, who also include a daughter, Andrea, grew up knowing that the opportunity to join the business was always there, although they pursued highly individual paths at first. Emanuel helped open homeless shelters in the Bronx. Edward worked as a reporter for Spy magazine. Andrea was a photographer.
In his Manhattan office, which is furnished like a living room, Leonard Stern recalled that at one point he told the children: "The business is here if you want it. If not, I'm selling it off." He has a crisp manner and eyes that could pierce a statue. About the same time he divorced his children's mother and married Allison Stern, a former model, and the two became regulars in Manhattan's society circles. "It was my time to play," he said.
How soon after that did his children join the company?
"Instantly," he said with a smile.
He did not start his offspring at the bottom. "This mail room business is really a farce," he said. "Creating an artificial sweatshop when your father is the chairman is ridiculous."
Still, when it came to grooming them to inherit power, he was careful to give limited responsibilities at first, so that failure would not mean disaster. Emanuel began in retail real estate.
"It was only 3 percent of the company, so if I messed up it wouldn't have hit too hard financially," Emanuel said. "Leonard is not stupid." Today Emanuel runs much of Hartz Mountain's real estate, including the SoHo Grand Hotel and buildings in New Jersey.
His brother graduated from Spy to the pet-food division of the company, which he now runs, overseeing 2,400 employees.
For her part, Andrea founded The Long Island Village Voice, an offshoot of The Village Voice in New York, which the family owns. She has a staff of 23.
On the face of it, Leonard Stern would seem to favor his sons as business heirs over his daughter, who is, at 31, the youngest.
That would be typical of most men at the top of family empires, who groom sons to take over, whereas daughters are often given a lavish wedding, a nice trust fund and a job that may be glamorous, but not too important, for as long as they like. Raising a family, it is understood, is their first priority.
Leonard Stern denied that he has favored his sons over his daughter in the grooming department, but he noted that Andrea, who married last year, is struggling with the issue of whether to drop out and begin a family. She agreed that this was so.
"That's her life style problem to sort out," Leonard Stern said. "I'm not favoring one over the other, but if my sons wanted to stay home with kids, they just wouldn't be president of the division."
Mr. Lear, the Columbia executive in residence, said that very few women with families make it to the top of big public companies. "They are competing with men who are putting in 18 hours a day 7 days a week," he said.
Even though Andrea currently has far fewer responsibilities than her older brothers, she said she has just as much desire to make it to the top.
"Don't count me out yet," she said. "I'm just as driven and ambitious as my brothers are. My time clock is just different. We'll just see who takes over someday."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Earl Graves, right, is grooming his three sons to take over his multimillion-dollar publishing and soft-drink business. They are, from left, Michael, Earl Jr. and John Graves. Jeff Wilpon, right, might have played baseball professionally, but he joined his father, Fred, in helping to run the New York Mets. (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Two generations at Hartz Mountain Industries: From left, Emanuel, Edward, Leonard and Andrea Stern. Howard J. Rubenstein, center, with his sons Richard, left, and Steven. (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS; STERLING EQUITIES; HARTZ MOUNTAIN INDUSTRIES EARL G GRAVES LTD (93%); NEW YORK METS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS; STERLING EQUITIES; HARTZ MOUNTAIN INDUSTRIES NEW YORK METS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: CORPORATIONS; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE BASEBALL (90%); FAMILY (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (68%); BASKETBALL (68%); WOMEN (67%); EXECUTIVES (55%); 

PERSON: YAZIGI, MONIQUE P; WILPON, FRED; WILPON, JEFF; RUBENSTEIN, HOWARD J; RUBENSTEIN, RICHARD; RUBENSTEIN, STEVEN; GRAVES, EARL G; GRAVES, MICHAEL; GRAVES, JOHN; GRAVES, EARL JR; STERN, LEONARD; STERN, EMANUEL; STERN, EDWARD; STERN, ANDREA RUDY GIULIANI (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



522 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
New Stock Is Fueled By Nesting Boomers

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
One part Pottery Barn, one part J. Peterman catalogue, Restoration Hardware is the latest home store trying to capitalize on the nesting urges of baby boomers to come to market. Investors' urges sent the stock ballooning up to $26.25 a share, or 38 percent above the offering price of $19 on Friday, the first day of trading.
The chain's name is a bit deceiving. It does sell hardware, but none of it is really meant for restoring anything. The company's 47 stores are actually emporiums of big leather chairs, fancy dog biscuit mix and the odd Russian flashlight or wind-proof lighter, as well as doorknobs and lamps and the like. 
 The company was founded by Stephen Gordon in Eureka, Calif., in 1980 and has spread to malls in 22 states with an off-beat product mix that has some retail consultants calling it "Pottery Barn for boys."
Its oddball assortment of hard-to-find items like the Russian flashlight (which runs without a battery), old-fashioned wrenches, Patio Daddy-O grill cookbooks and various gadgets do indeed have the male appeal to distinguish Restoration Hardware from the mass of mall stores aiming to attract female shoppers. But the retailer's bread and butter -- 42 percent of its sales -- is furniture and lighting, most of it with an Americana aesthetic, and the key buyers of those products remain women. (Face it, it is a special kind of fellow who willingly sets out on a Saturday to survey some "rollerball" shower curtain rings.)
Expectations for the initial public offering were high, and Restoration Hardware did not disappoint. Exciting retail I.P.O.'s have been scarce in the last six months, and Restoration Hardware's road shows packed in all the major institutional investors.
"I was exceptionally impressed," said Bruce Bartlett, who manages Oppenheimer's Total Return Fund. "I try to invest in concepts that are leveraging the baby boom, and this concept hits it on the nose. It appeals to both genders and people in the upper income bracket."
What is more, retail stocks have been hot this year. The Standard & Poor's retail index is up 32 percent so far this year, compared with a 13 percent rise in the S.& P. 500. The home furnishings segment has traditionally been fragmented, and players like Crate and Barrel have shown how to grab market share.
But make no mistake: Restoration Hardware is expensive. At Friday's closing price, the company is already trading at roughly 45 times forward earnings, compared with a 17 multiple for Pier One or 31 for Williams-Sonoma. "Obviously this company has created an aura around selling chairs and tables and knobs," said Linda Killian, a portfolio manager at Renaissance Capital Corporation in Greenwich, Conn.
Of course, Restoration Hardware is just at the beginning of its run. The company plans to open 25 more stores this year, and roughly the same number in 1999. A catalogue to be introduced in September will raise the profile of the store's name. New shoppers will more than likely be tickled by the whole notion of romancing the Bosco sauce.
But like its shares, Restoration Hardware's goods are not cheap. That club chair, for instance, costs $850, and much of the store's furniture is priced much higher than Crate and Barrel or Pottery Barn offerings. From an investor's perspective, it may have more in common with a luxury retailer than with a Home Depot. If the economy or the American shopper's disposable income should dip, gourmet dog biscuit mix and expensive leather chairs are likely to be the first things consumers abandon.
"We think that the company itself has outstanding merchandising and good management," said Tara Schuchmann, a managing partner of Tara Capital Partners, a Dallas hedge fund with a retail focus. "The biggest question for us is how long can people afford their mortgage and still buy that cherry slate bed."
The company also likes to keep a lot of inventory in its stores, which crowds out selling space, Ms. Killian noted. It could find itself with bloated shelves at the end of a quarter.
According to the prospectus, Restoration Hardware loses money almost every quarter but the fourth of each year. Most retailers depend heavily on the fourth quarter, but a furnishings store shouldn't be as seasonal as, say, a toy store.
Another nit: Mr. Gordon and other officers redeemed 1.3 million common shares of common stock in May of 1997. But management still owns 30 percent of the stock after the offering.
If Restoration Hardware meets its goals of roughly 8 percent annual same-store sales growth and fat 68-percent earnings increases, investors who choose to hold the stock as long as they would a couch from the company's stores could find themselves happy indeed.
"People should have confidence that they can do what they want to do," Ms. Killian said. "In which case it will be an enduring, unique concept."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Restoration Hardware store in Portland, Ore. The company's stock began trading on the Nasdaq stock market on Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); OREGON, USA (71%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (59%); EUREKA, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: RESTORATION HARDWARE RENAISSANCE CAPITAL CORP (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: RESTORATION HARDWARE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); OREGON, USA (71%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (59%); EUREKA, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COOKWARE & KITCHEN STORES (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WOMEN'S MARKET (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (60%); MARKET SHARE (57%); 

PERSON: STEINHAUER, JENNIFER LINDA KILLIAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



523 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Beware of Japanese Bearing Promises

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
Like a bungee jumper who finally reached the end of his rope, the Japanese yen made a mighty bounce last week. The yen ended the week 7 percent above the eight-year low against the dollar it hit just days earlier.
The bounce came courtesy of the United States Treasury, which bought billions of dollars worth of yen in currency markets on Wednesday. What did Uncle Sam get for his big investment? Promises by Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto and Finance Minister Hikaru Matsunaga to address their nation's economic problems. Something called "the Total Plan" is supposed to allow Japan's banks to escape their problem loans without causing a nationwide depression. 
 This is supposed to impress. In fact, it sounds like little more than hot air -- about which the Japanese know plenty.
It was Japan, after all, whose Nikkei 225 stock index rang in 1980 at 6,556 and exited the decade at 38,916, a rise of nearly sixfold. Yet even when the market was at its dizziest, high-level officials at Japanese banks angrily denied that the Nikkei might be a hot-air balloon. Punctured, the Nikkei now stands at 15,268, down 61 percent from its 1989 peak.
Robert E. Rubin, the United States Treasury Secretary, may believe that the Japanese promises are substantive enough to deserve a big-buck intervention. He may also think that the measures needed to revive the country's comatose economy will be taken. But others say the intervention was folly and that the yen will once again descend.
Trying to prop up the yen was a tactical error on the Treasury's part, argues Andrew Smithers, president of the economic consulting firm Smithers & Company in London, because Japan's bureaucracy has historically been antimarket.
"The Japanese believe markets are there not to tell you bad news, but to be manipulated so that you can alter the real world," Mr. Smithers said. By intervening, he contends, the Treasury has given financial support to the antimarket elements within Japan's bureaucracy.
Moreover, while dealing with bad bank loans is laudable, that alone is not enough. Japan needs to raise its falling exports, a strategy of which Japanese officials make no mention. In real, not nominal terms, Japan's current account surplus fell from 3.76 percent of gross domestic product last December to 3.27 percent in the first quarter of this year.
Because 45 percent of Japan's exports last year went to now-decimated Asian countries, Tokyo must look elsewhere to sell its goods. To compete in key markets like the United States and Germany, however, the yen will have to fall, not rise, against the dollar and the mark. Bolstering the yen just makes Japan's exports more difficult to push.
While world markets react warmly to Japanese promises, it's worth remembering that these folks have been known to pledge one thing and deliver another. Just last November, rumors swirled that Yamaichi International, Japan's fourth-largest brokerage firm, was near bankruptcy. Two of the firm's top-ranking executives came from Japan to meet with officials at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the New York Stock Exchange. The executives assured the regulators that Yamaichi, which had an American subsidiary, was solvent, and they reiterated their commitment to the American markets.
Not 10 days later, the firm petitioned Japan's Ministry of Finance for permission to cease operations.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Staging a Comeback?"
Weekly exchange rate of Japanese yen to the dollar, 1997 to current.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (56%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



524 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
Setting an Alarm to Tell You When to Sell a Stock

BYLINE: By ANNE TERGESEN 

 BODY:
IN a world where bull markets rage, interest rates sink and the endlessly repeated apple-pie advice is to buy and hold, more than a few investors have trepidations about selling. It can always seem to be too soon: The winners may have further to climb, the losers may be just about to redeem themselves, and patience may prevent a mistake, or having to admit one.
But sooner or later, everybody has to, or ought to, sell. And the way the market has been behaving lately, with the Dow diving 400 points in five days, then rebounding a bit, then dropping another 100.14 points on Friday, the mood of many investors may be headed for the sooner end of the spectrum. 
 Is now a good time to sell? There is no certain way to tell. Even professionals armed with sophisticated computer programs and years of experience say that selling is more art than science.
Still, without a disciplined approach to selling, investors risk making the common mistake of basing decisions on emotions like fear, pride, or greed rather than on a company's fundamentals, a practice that can be costly.
"All good money managers have sell strategies," said Stephen Janachowski, a founder of Brouwer & Janachowski, investment advisers in Tiburon, Calif. "Individual investors, if they are going to buy and sell stocks, should, too."
Some money managers cut their losses when a stock falls by a certain amount. Others single out high price-to-earnings ratios or earnings disappointments as reasons to say goodbye. But nearly all adopt selling criteria that force them to stick to their investment themes.
For example, Bruce Hutson, manager of the Marshall Equity Income Fund, always sells a stock when its yield dips 20 percent below the average yield for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index -- no ifs, ands or buts.
With dividend-to-stock-price ratios at historic lows, parting has become commonplace for Mr. Hutson's fund, which specializes in undervalued large companies and aims to beat the S.& P. 500's yield by at least a percentage point. General Electric, Maytag, and H. F. Ahmanson are a few of the stocks he recently excised from the portfolio because of low yields. Mr. Hutson also sets a "fully valued" target price for each stock he holds, and usually sells when a stock reaches its target.
Lately, Mr. Hutson's criteria have him selling more often than he would like -- his fund's turnover is 60 percent -- but the results are hard to argue with. The fund is up 17.7 percent in the last 12 months and is yielding 2.89 percent, well ahead of the S.& P. 500's 1.3-percent average, with less risk.
THER money managers leave themselves some leeway to make exceptions to selling rules. At the UAM FMA Small Company Portfolio, for example, warning bells sound when a stock approaches what the managers consider its full value, typically 20 percent or more above the purchase price, said Kathryn Vorisek, vice president of UAM. But if Ms. Vorisek and her colleagues decide the company's outlook has improved since the target was set, they can be persuaded to hold on.
The fund did just that with Flowers Industries, a baking company, and it was not sorry. Ms. Vorisek said a turnaround at the company's Mrs. Smith's division, a recent cost-cutting plan, and Flowers's growing stake in a revitalized Keebler justified successively higher target stock prices. The fund finally sold in March, after Flowers' market capitalization surpassed $1 billion, the upper limit on the fund's small-cap holdings.
The fund also has a "butcher rule" that calls for dumping anything that falls more than 25 percent after the fund buys it, but that too is not automatic, said Ms. Vorisek. On rare occasions, managers decide it signals a buying opportunity. This flexible approach has helped the fund beat the Russell 2000 index of small-cap stocks by eight percentage points over the past 12 months.
Money managers say stop-loss limits like the butcher rule are particularly useful with volatile or thinly traded stocks. Dan Sullivan, who edits two newsletters and manages $175 million for himself and clients that include his 93-year-old mother, is quick to cut losses, sometimes selling one of the handful of fast-rising momentum stocks he owns on a dip as small as 10 percent. "The last thing you want is to be in them at the wrong time," said Mr. Sullivan, who has made his mother a millionaire even though her portfolio's return has lagged slightly behind the S.& P. 500 over 16 years.
Ms. Vorisek said a butcher rule has another advantage. It prevents managers from getting too attached to their favorite holdings. "It takes all the emotion out of a sale. You admit you probably made a mistake, sell the stock, and move on," she said.
An important corollary is what might be called the Satchel Paige rule: Don't look back. Even if a selling strategy produces one or two spectacular blunders, it is worth keeping if it has generated good returns over the long run, professional money managers say.
As president of the Brandywine Fund, Foster Friess focuses on small-cap and mid-cap stocks that sell for an average of 18 times 1999 earnings, while delivering fast earnings growth of 20 percent or more. When the fund buys a hot prospect, it generally makes room by selling a slower grower, a strategy Mr. Friess calls "pigs in the trough" because of the way hungry pigs displace satisfied ones.
In early January, Mr. Friess's pessimism about future earnings prospects convinced him that stocks in general were a bad bet, and he moved three-quarters of the fund's assets into cash. His timing was terrible, and he missed several months of double-digit gains in the market. Brandywine got back into stocks in March, when 1999 earnings estimates made them seem a better bargain, but the damage was done, and the fund's return slumped.
Even after an experience like that, though, Mr. Friess is unwilling to second-guess the sell discipline that served him well for so long. "You always regret not participating in the things that are going up, but at the same time, if you know a strategy has worked for 30 years, you don't want to abandon it," he said.
Money managers caution against trying to trim a selling strategy based on short-term results, and point out that transaction costs and capital-gains taxes ought to figure in every selling decision. Keeping a well-balanced and diversified portfolio can sometimes mean pruning part of an overgrown holding, even if the fundamentals do not call for a sale. And trying to outguess day-to-day price gyrations or bolts from the blue like big mergers is generally just as futile when selling as when buying.
"You have to ask, 'Does the combination of your buy and sell strategies outperform the market?' " said Richard Bernstein, chief quantitative strategist at Merrill Lynch. "Or should you just invest in an index fund and play golf?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: BROUWER & JANACHOWSKI (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (86%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (78%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); 

PERSON: TERGESEN, ANNE KATHRYN VORISEK (84%); BRUCE HUTSON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



525 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: The World;
It's a Sea! It's a Lake! No. It's a Pool of Oil.

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
HALFWAY around the world, where the Caucasus meets the Middle East, a rush is on to exploit what could prove to be the world's richest oil bonanza. The stakes are so high that otherwise sane people are fighting each other for the chance to risk huge investments in a part of the world plagued by ethnic rivalries, civil wars, corrupt bureaucracies, faltering economies and big egos.
And that's not all. Some of these same people have also become intently interested in solving a curious question: Is the Caspian really a sea or just a lake? 
 If it weren't for oil and the breakup of the Soviet Union, that's the kind of question that might occupy scholars in some musty corner of some obscure university. But today, people need to know, and here's why:
The Caspian is a California-size body of salt water -- the world's largest landlocked body of water -- that may sit on as much as 200 billion barrels of oil, which would be 16 percent of the Earth's potential oil reserves. Even at today's low prices, that could add up to $3 trillion in oil.
If it is a lake, one set of rules about access to the oil would apply, with the nations that border it controlling the undersea wealth out to a few miles from their shores; the remainder in the middle -- like the hole in a donut -- would be treated as an international seabed. The oil in the middle could be exploited, sold and transported only if all five countries agreed on how to do it and on how to divide up the profits.
If the Caspian is considered a sea, however, the entire bed would be sliced into pieces, like a pie.
And since five nations now border the Caspian, and a lot of undiscovered reserves may lie in the large donut hole, the question is anything but academic.
The Caspian Sea is what it has been called for a long time, and under the international Convention on the Law of the Sea, it meets most of the qualifications.
On the other hand, the Soviet Union and Iran long ago found it convenient to treat the Caspian differently. Under their 1921 Treaty of Friendship, they made it a freely navigated lake whose resources -- caviar-filled sturgeon mostly -- were shared by the two bordering countries.
That worked well enough in the old days. But following the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991, the Caspian suddenly became the property of the five countries that border it: Russia on the north, Iran on the south, Kazakhstan and tiny Turkmenistan on the east and Azerbaijan on the west. What they want to exploit isn't free-roaming like the fish.
So the question underlying the lake-sea dispute is clear-cut: Who owns the oil under the sea and who controls the pipeline route by which it gets to market?
For Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan, which have the biggest known fields under their waters, the Caspian is a sea that would give them maximum control over their own slices.
Until recently, Russia and Iran, which have less oil and gas off their own shores, insisted that concern for the environment required joint sovereignty over the Caspian and its resources, a ludicrous position since Russia is by far the Caspian's largest polluter. Russia also argued that because the economies of the former Soviet republics were developed with Russian financial support, it deserved more. Russia must have "access to the resources of the Commonwealth of Independent States," Yuri Shafranik, who was then Energy Minister, said in 1994. "We, by virtue of our labor, mind, energy have created all this."
But last April, Russia began to modify its position after discovering more oil in its sector. President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia and President Nursultan Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan agreed in principle -- but failed to sign an agreement -- to divide the seabed and the oil under it into national sectors.
There was a catch. Mr. Yeltsin also said that the waters above the seabed would remain international. That means that all five countries would enjoy common use of the sea itself, with freedom of navigation, fishing rights and environmental protections.
Clever move. Russia, which still can't quite accept the fact that it has to make concessions to three former Soviet republics, is opposed to a plan for an undersea pipeline that would bypass Russia. But oil is no good unless it can be moved to market, so Russia's compromise would give it veto power over any pipeline plan on environmental grounds.
Even if Mr. Yeltsin signs an agreement with Kazakhstan to divide the Caspian, as he has said he will do next month, will Russia's Parliament go along? And even if the Russian view prevails, does that mean a navigational free-for-all in the Caspian?
"Freedom of navigation sounds good, but does that mean that any country can move its navy around at will even if it seems provocative to its neighbors?" asked Toby Gati, who was the Russia adviser on the National Security Council during President Clinton's first term. "What happens if one country's platform begins to leak oil? Can the others say, 'Get it out of here?' "
With Russia's new position, Iran becomes the odd man out, insisting that the Caspian cannot be divided into national sectors and that the oil belongs to all.
The only way Iran will agree is if the Caspian is sectioned into "equal shares," Iran's Foreign Minister, Kamal Kharrazi, said last month. That means Iran wants to control 20 percent of the seabed; the normal division according to international law would give Iran less than 10 percent.
 
An American Plot
Dr. Kharrazi also rejected the Russian idea of dividing the seabed one way and the waters another. "If there is going to be a division accepted by different countries, I'm sure that one legal regime has to be applied to the seabed as well as the waters of the Caspian Sea," he said.
Iran has also declared that any pipeline built under the Caspian would be a disaster to sturgeon and migrating birds. But its motive may be to delay the building of any undersea pipeline, in hopes that the United States will drop its opposition to a much shorter, cheaper pipeline that would go across Iran.
Iran's spiritual leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, regards the whole debate as part of an American-inspired plot to impose a military presence on Iran's northern border -- the Caspian -- just as it did on Iran's southern border, the Persian Gulf. "The U.S. oil companies' presence in the Caspian Sea is aimed at paving the ground for the U.S. military presence in this sensitive oil-rich region," he said recently.
Even the World Bank is confused. Recently, the bank's International Finance Corporation indicated that Azerbaijan could get financing for offshore development without a resolution of the lake-sea issue, a decision that has set off a legal battle inside the bank.
The American position is that it will accept any decision that will avoid a pipeline through Iran.
And as some participants in this debate cite legalities and environmental concerns, Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan are busy developing their offshore deposits, signing multi-billion-dollar contracts with international firms.
"While the lawyers are dithering, the investors are planting their flags," said S. Frederick Starr, an expert on Central Asia who writes extensively about the Caspian. "It's like land-staking in the American West. You get your wagon out there as soon as possible."

GRAPHIC: Photo: An oilman's nirvana on the Caspian Sea outside Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan. (James Hill for The New York Times)
 
Map: "The Geography of Greed"
Until 1991, the resources of the Caspian were shared by the Soviet Union and Iran. But since the Soviet breakup, three additional nations -- Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan -- have emerged as competitors for the vast oil reserves believed to lie under the water. Since development rights would differ if the Caspian were considered a lake or a sea, the competitors differ on how to define it. Here is the difference.
 
CASPIAN LAKE -- Iran argues most strongly for this definition, which gives all countries joint control in the middle, where new oil and gas reserves may be found.
 
THE CASPIAN SEA -- Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan argue the entire water should be divided into national sectors. (Source: PIW, Energy Intelligence Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: AZERBAIJAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); TURKMENISTAN (94%); KAZAKHSTAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CAUCASIAN STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CASPIAN SEA (94%); EARTH (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BAKU, AZERBAIJAN (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CASPIAN SEA; IRAN; RUSSIA; AZERBAIJAN; KAZAKHSTAN; TURKMENISTAN; AZERBAIJAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); TURKMENISTAN (94%); KAZAKHSTAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CAUCASIAN STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CASPIAN SEA (94%); EARTH (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BAKU, AZERBAIJAN (59%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; OFFSHORE EXPLORATION AND INSTALLATIONS; PIPELINES OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); LAKES (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); OCEANS (86%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); LAW OF THE SEA (75%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CIVIL WAR (72%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



526 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2670 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
Enigmatic Architect Of a Cable Resurgence

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

 BODY:
WHAT makes Leo run?
Over the last 16 months, Leo J. Hindery Jr. has been the good cop to John C. Malone's bad cop at Tele-Communications Inc., the nation's second-largest cable operator. 
 Since joining TCI in March of last year, Mr. Hindery has improved the company's image on Wall Street by selling cable systems to reduce its staggering debt. Delighted investors have shown their approval by sending TCI's long-depressed stock up 149 percent since the February 1997 announcement of his coming arrival.
In Washington, his assiduous schmoozing has won over even the most vociferous critics of Mr. Malone's often arrogant style. "I think in a very short period of time, Leo has tried to deliver a different kind of message about the company," said Andrew J. Schwartzman, president of the Media Access Project, a public interest law firm.
Along the way, Mr. Hindery has accumulated a personal fortune of at least $70 million, much of it from a huge TCI stock-option grant.
But there is more to Mr. Hindery than the stick-figure portrayal of a rich, hard-working president. Realistic as he has been in tackling TCI's problems, when it comes to his own life he has the puzzling habit of relating stories about the difficulties of his childhood that are at odds with the accounts of his family members.
At a 7 A.M. breakfast interview recently at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in Manhattan, during one of his frequent business trips to New York, the 50-year-old executive recounted how he had left home at the age of 13 to fend for himself.
His parents didn't bother looking for him, he said, because "they didn't care if I left."
"It was cheaper having me out of the house," Mr. Hindery continued. He said he lost touch with his family -- was "living with people," that "the Jesuits got me through" and that he joined the merchant marine at age 16.
The rest of his family, however, doesn't remember it that way. In separate telephone interviews, Mr. Hindery's widowed mother, sister and brother all said that Mr. Hindery lived at home until he graduated from high school. His younger brother, Michael, a dean at Stanford Medical School, remembers that when Leo Hindery was in his early 20's, he got his kid brother a job at the mining company where he then worked, Utah International, based in San Francisco.
Moreover, the Rev. William F. LeRoux, assistant dean for university relations and Mr. Hindery's former professor at Seattle University, Mr. Hindery's alma mater, said that in his recollection, Mr. Hindery had remained close to his father throughout his college years. Father LeRoux, Michael Hindery and his mother, Marie, could not recall a stint by Leo Hindery in the merchant marine.
Confronted with these discrepancies late last week, Mr. Hindery said that his recollections of events that took place decades ago were less benign than those of others, and he stood by his accounts of a difficult childhood.
"I never exaggerate about that," he said. And he insisted that he had spent several summers working on a ship called the U.S.S. Avila off the Northwest coast.
"The past hurts, and I don't like it," Mr. Hindery said.
Abraham Zaleznik, Konosuke Matsushita professor of leadership emeritus at the Harvard Business School, said storytelling is a pattern among some American business leaders.
Dramatized accounts of childhood might well reflect "the need to create a mythology about himself that may protect him from more painful memories," Professor Zaleznik said. Business luminaries including Andrew Carnegie and Henry Ford, he said, have portrayed themselves as "the lonely figure who was hurt and injured and travels through life, overcoming all travails to become a success."
That an executive might exaggerate his past could send up red flags for an investor -- or spur confidence that his drive to succeed could work for the benefit of his employer.
FOR the time being, Mr. Hindery's energy seems well harnessed at TCI, which among cable operators is eclipsed in size only by Time Warner. His success in part may come from his skill in telling people what they want to hear while maintaining his positions. And he may have the ideal partner in Mr. Malone, TCI's chairman, who seems to care little about what people think of his company.
During Mr. Hindery's tenure, TCI has transformed itself from a company that customers, investors and regulators loved to hate into one of the more solid and image-conscious performers in the cable industry.
An incident at a cable-industry conference in Atlanta last month illustrated the soothing effect the president has had in his role as diplomatic counter to his blunt boss. Mr. Malone had just upset Congressional leaders and broadcasting executives by threatening to drop all-news cable services if the Federal Government forced TCI to carry high-definition television signals.
But before another Malone-induced media imbroglio could move into high gear, Mr. Hindery rushed out a conciliatory statement that "no cable customer will be disenfranchised from receiving an HDTV broadcast signal."
Make no mistake: TCI was not suddenly caving in to public pressure. But the company, which had rarely taken account of public opinion until Mr. Hindery came on board, was finally showing some savvy in playing industry politics. Mr. Hindery at least indicated that TCI would continue a dialogue with the Government about cable's role in the HDTV business.
Revamping TCI's image has been a gargantuan task. Mr. Malone, long considered a brilliant strategist and technical expert, built TCI into the nation's dominant cable operator by gobbling up cable systems but investing less than many other operators in customer services. Mr. Malone had no problem playing the corporate heavy, once even declaring that Reed E. Hundt, then the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, should be shot.
"John is a kind of John Wayne," observed Mr. Hundt, who left the commission last fall. "He didn't see a lot of reason for the Government to be in his business." Mr. Malone declined to be interviewed for this article.
Mr. Hindery's more measured approach to both the Government and the balance sheet appears to be paying off. To consolidate operations, he began to negotiate joint ventures with companies that had cable systems adjacent to TCI's. The ventures offered their owners economies of scale and let TCI focus more intently on its remaining cable systems.
Those deals, when completed, will let TCI reduce the debt on its own balance sheet by $4.7 billion, or 32 percent, to $9.6 billion, while still retaining a minority stake in the new companies. Meanwhile, the crucial ratio of debt to cash flow available to make interest and debt payments is expected to fall to about 4.5 by the end of the third quarter of 1998 from 6.1 at the end of 1996, improving TCI's credit rating and making its borrowings less costly.
True, the creation of these joint ventures will also reduce the number of TCI subscribers by 30 percent, to about 10 million. But it will streamline operations, since TCI will have 60 percent of its customers in 10 states, rather than sprawled across 24 states.
Mr. Hindery boasts that he is a master of reading people. "I know people. I know them better than anyone knows them. I don't talk about it much, but I never make mistakes," he said.
But he isn't always so good at getting along with them. Before going to TCI, Mr. Hindery founded various limited partnerships, collectively known as Intermedia Partners, to invest in cable systems. All three of his general partners left after disputes with him, according to several people formerly associated with the group. Mr. Hindery upset at least one of those partners by pressuring him to reduce his stake in the partnerships, one insider said.
Two of the former partners, Ed Allen and Ted Liebst, declined to comment, and the third, David Rozzelle, did not return phone calls. Mr. Hindery said simply that "they left."
So far, though, Mr. Hindery has apparently established good rapport with his underlings at TCI. A hard driver who puts in 15-hour days, he has replaced 25 managers, mostly from within. To give employees a stake in TCI's growth, he has nearly tripled the number of nonofficers and nondirectors in the stock-option program to 440 people, he said.
"I think there were about three people in the option program before," he said at the recent breakfast meeting -- the first of three he held that morning.
But perhaps most important, Mr. Hindery throws himself into the task of marketing TCI with unrestrained gusto. He can be as obsessive about promoting the company as he is about selling himself.
When an analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter put out a lukewarm report on the company, for example, TCI angrily responded by taking away its investment banking business. "Malone was never that sensitive, but Leo takes what an analyst thinks of the stock as a personal thing," said one person close to the situation. Mr. Hindery countered that Primestar Partners, a satellite-TV consortium in which TCI is a member, has done business with Morgan Stanley since the incident.
Still, his efforts have helped polish the cable industry's image. Many people say the arrogance of the cable executives was at least partly responsible for the Cable Act of 1992, which reregulated the industry. By 1993, when Mr. Hundt took office at the F.C.C., 128 members of Congress and a third of the Senate told him that the the first round of cable price cuts were not adequate because the industry had effectively lobbied for regulation with huge loopholes.
Burdened by debt and Government regulation, TCI's stock declined from the end of 1993 to the start of 1997. Finally last year, as the stock languished and pressure mounted on the company, Mr. Malone himself brought Mr. Hindery aboard.
HE has proven a respectful subordinate. "John has a great sense of the industry and he sees things," Mr. Hindery said. "He is brilliant. I am clever. I am not as smart as John."
Diplomatic, yes; modest, no. "I think we all have our strengths and weaknesses," Mr. Hindery said. "John can be anything he wants to be, but it is better for us if I go run the company, and he figures out where we are going to take it."
Unlike Mr. Malone, who avoided industry association roles, Mr. Hindery has just been named head of the National Cable Television Association. And he is far more willing than Mr. Malone to work with Washington and community franchise boards.
For example, Mr. Hundt recalled that last summer, during a weeklong outing for media moguls organized by Allen & Company, the investment banking firm, Mr. Hindery laid out to him TCI's plan for selling cable systems. "He asked whether the F.C.C. could work with it," Mr. Hundt said. "He smoothed the way."
TCI, of course, has not entirely changed its spots. Mr. Hindery and Mr. Malone are currently arguing with broadcasters on how much bandwidth the broadcasters are entitled to for HDTV signals.
But Wall Street clearly likes the new team. True, its stock's 149 percent surge since the announcement that Mr. Hindery was coming on board has fallen short of the rival Cablevision Systems' 257.2 percent leap in that time, though it exceeds Comcast's doubling and has kept pace with the overall market.
More important, TCI has regained Wall Street's confidence. In an event almost unimaginable five years ago, the Association for Investment Management and Research in Charlottesville, Va., awarded TCI a prize for the most improved investor-relations program in the media industry last year. And there is an obvious effort to make an immensely complex annual report clearer.
Mr. Hindery is in the office or on the phone by 5 A.M. and says he doesn't need more than four or five hours' sleep a night. He attributes that drive to his "weird" childhood in Tacoma, Wash., where, he said, "I started paying for everything in my life when I was 9 years old.
"I used to work in the fields, and I would give the money to my family, partly because that was how my family worked and partly because I was so mad at them," he continued.
"I had a such a crummy childhood. You just can't know how cruel my parents were. Nobody beat me, but there was just a total absence of affection. I got a Christmas gift once. It was a belt, a size 38 belt. I weighed about 125 pounds."
Family members confirm that Mr. Hindery had a job picking berries at the age of 9. But they describe his childhood as reasonably structured, saying he held down such prosaic jobs as packing grocery bags at a Safeway supermarket. "Leo lived at home with us through high school and had the same treatment and gifts," said Michael Hindery, who insisted that he remained attached to his older brother for years after.
Mrs. Hindery acknowledges that she has had her share of emotional problems. In telephone interviews, she said she suffered from the eating disorders of anorexia and bulimia, had low self-esteem and was estranged from all three of her children. And both Hindery brothers agree that their parents, who had not gone to college, insisted on hard work. "I worked in shipyards full time to put myself through school," Leo Hindery said. "I went to sea and I drove trucks, and I picked crops. I did every crummy job."
After graduating from Seattle University, he said, he attended Stanford's business school, subsequently going to work for Utah International, a mining company. After General Electric acquired the company in 1976 (it has since sold it), he moved to Wall Street, where he served as managing director and chief financial officer of A. G. Becker Paribas, the investment banking firm. He entered the media world when he was hired by the Chronicle Publishing Company in San Francisco, where he was chief financial officer.
Like many executives at the notably fractious Chronicle, his performance at the media company got mixed reviews. Some members of the Theriot family, which owns the company, felt he was too ambitious, while others applauded him for helping to bring deal making to the stodgy concern.
In 1988, he decided to go out on his own, and raised $200 million to buy cable systems through a series of partnerships, creating Intermedia.
Then, last year, Mr. Malone offered Mr. Hindery the chance to run TCI. Mr. Hindery says he accepted because of his affection for Mr. Malone, whom he knew through industry circles, and because he welcomed the chance to straighten out the nation's second-largest cable operator.
MONEY wasn't a consideration, he says. Even so, there was certainly a lot of it. First, Mr. Hindery sold his stake in Intermedia's cable systems to TCI for $55 million in stock and cash. Mr. Hindery left $20 million of that in the company, though with strings attached to encourage employees and advisers to stay on and run it.
And at TCI, Mr. Hindery got himself a lucrative options grant. By the company's own reckoning, his 4.425 million options were worth $27.7 million when they were granted. Adding in two other grants that were not valued, the executive-compensation expert Graef Crystal estimates the total value at more than $35 million, making Mr. Hindery the recipient of one of 1997's largest option packages.
"It couldn't have been more well deserved," Mr. Hindery said.
If the stock has gone up since his arrival, it is in part because Mr. Hindery works like a maniac, a style even his family can find taxing. Mr. Hindery described himself as somewhat of an absentee father to his teen-age daughter, and his wife said that living with her husband was rather like having an eccentric uncle in the attic. "You get used to it after a while," she said.
Eccentricity might well be Mr. Hindery's defining characteristic, driving both his need to perhaps embellish his life story and his need to succeed. Indirectly, then, his very eccentricity seems to have brought some management sanity to Tele-Communications. Whether it will always play such a positive role is a harder call.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Until Leo J. Hindery came on board in March 1997, Tele-Communications Inc. paid little attention to public opinion or reducing its considerable debt. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Leo J. Hindery Jr., president of Tele-Communications, is in many ways the perfect foil for John C. Malone, the chairman, who hired him last year. While Mr. Malone can be blunt and contentious, playing the corporate heavy, Mr. Hindery often proffers a conciliatory message. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times (above left); Associated Press)(pg. 9)
 
Charts: "Less Static"
Since the February 1997 announcement that Leo J. Hindery Jr. would become president of Tele-Communications Inc., the company's stock has leaped and its performance strengthened.
 
FINANCIALS
 
Revenue
Year ended Dec. 31, 1997: $ 7.57 billion
1st quarter 1998: $1.87 billion
 
Operating cash flow
Year ended Dec. 31, 1997: $ 2.98 billion
1st quarter 1998: $ 706 million
 
Net profit/loss
Year ended Dec. 31, 1997: -$ 626 million
1st quarter 1998: $ 315 million*
 
*Gain resulted primarily from sales of cable systems assets.
 
Graph shows performance of TCI A shares since Feb 1997.
 
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: TCOM (NASDAQ) (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TELE-COMMUNICATIONS INC TELE-COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: TELE-COMMUNICATIONS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); INTERVIEWS (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); FAMILY (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); 

PERSON: HINDERY, LEO J JR; FABRIKANT, GERALDINE JOHN MALONE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



527 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2107 words

HEADLINE: The New Monster Of The Midway;
Premier Parks Thrives by Not Being Disney

BYLINE: By EDWIN MCDOWELL 

DATELINE: Oklahoma City

 BODY:
AS Frontier City rose near here alongside legendary Route 66 in 1958, not even its owners could have harbored illusions that the 60-acre amusement park would ever rival the talk of the industry, the three-year-old Disneyland. Indeed, by the time a local real estate development company bought a controlling stake in 1982, the park was so rundown that the new owner planned to demolish it and put up an office and retail complex instead.
Today, most of Route 66 is only a memory, replaced by Interstate 35. Yet Frontier City still stands, spruced up and profitable. 
 For when Frontier escaped the wrecking ball -- courtesy of plummeting oil prices, which sent Oklahoma's economy into a tailspin -- the owner had little choice but to operate the park itself. And in the years since, that potentially disastrous investment has turned into a gusher: its owner, Premier Parks Inc., is now the second-biggest theme park operator in the world, behind only the Walt Disney Company itself.
 Like the cars of a roller coaster inching up the first big rise, the company that would eventually become Premier took its time getting ready to expand, spending more than a decade to collect a dozen or so small parks around the country. And then this year, seemingly from out of nowhere, Premier shifted into high gear.
 In February, it stunned the industry by agree-ing to pay nearly $1 billion in cash for the dozen Six Flags parks owned by Time Warner Entertainment and an investor group led by Boston Ventures. A month later, it went international, buying a 49.9 percent stake in six parks in Europe. And it is not done yet.
"Clearly, there are opportunities for more acquisitions," said Kieran Burke, Premier's understated 41-year-old chair-man and chief executive.
Disney is hardly in danger of losing its top spot any time soon. The 31 parks now in Premier's stable had about 38 million admissions last year, much less than half the estimated 86 million that Disney packed into its 6 parks. (Disney's Animal Kingdom in Florida, its seventh park, opened in April.)
And Disney and Premier aren't really even direct competitors. Premier operates regional parks, mostly for day trippers, many of whom become season ticket holders and drop in frequently during summer, if only for a few hours at a time. Disney runs destination parks, which have much higher ticket prices and serve as magnets for its large resorts. Moreover, while Disney operates its five parks in the United States year-round, all but one of Premier's parks are seasonal.
Indeed, Premier executives insist that they don't have Mickey on the mind.
"We never viewed our long-term goals or performance as competition with Disney," said Mr. Burke, a Harvard-trained lawyer.
Yet at least one other comparison is quite telling. "While Disney remains the park industry leader, with the theme parks their best-performing business over the past year, Premier is growing faster than the entire Disney company," said Larry C. Petrella, an analyst with Lehman Brothers.
Investors have sent the company's stock up 75 percent since the Six Flags deal was announced. The stock, which closed on Friday at $59.0625, has more than tripled since Premier went public on June 4, 1996, a reflection of the company's sizzling financial performance: attendance, revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization have increased by 7, 9 and 12 times, respectively, since 1993.
For now, the question is whether Premier's management is up to the tasks it has set for itself. The purchase of Six Flags, after all, is a bit like a minor league team buying the New York Yankees.
Six Flags' 1997 revenues were $708.7 million, more than three times Premier's $193.9 million. Six Flags drew about 27 million visitors last year, with four of its parks, including Great Adventure in Jackson, N.J., accounting for more than 3 million each. By contrast, Premier's total attendance was less than 11 million, and only one of its parks, Elitch Gardens in Denver, reached even 1.5 million.
But analysts regard Mr. Burke and his team as better theme park operators than were Time Warner's managers. Ned P. Zachar, senior managing director of Nationsbanc Montgomery Securities, said he expected Premier to consolidate operations and improve margins. How hands-on is Premier management? Mr. Burke and other senior executives get hourly updates by computer of attendance figures at each park.
FOR his part, Mr. Burke thinks it's time for a breather. "Over the next 12 months," he said, "we'll be focused largely on integrating our newest parks."
The company is making a tender offer for the remaining interest in the six European parks it operates with Walibi S.A. It paid Walibi $43 million for its 49.9 percent stake in March. And tomorrow, it plans to add the Six Flags name to its Kentucky Kingdom park in Louisville, the first of a number of proposed name changes.
As part of the Six Flags deal, Premier also obtained the exclusive right for 55 years to use Warner Brothers characters like Bugs Bunny and Tweety Bird, in its American and Canadian parks. Analysts expect the characters to bolster attendance and merchandise sales at Premier's original properties.
Premier derived 51.2 percent of its revenue last year from the sale of food, merchandise, games and rides, or about $8.50 a person. But the average expenditure at Six Flags is nearly $10 higher, said Mr. Petrella of Lehman.
Moreover, a recent report by Nationsbanc Montgomery estimated that merchandise sales averaged only about $1 per person at Premier but about $5 at Six Flags. So every additional dollar per person that Premier can generate from the cartoon characters, the report said, "could translate into incremental revenue of $12 million to $13 million."
Given Premier's high-speed financial ride, it would be fitting to report that Mr. Burke went into the amusement park business because he was unable to shake a childhood passion for roller coasters, or that beneath his Harvard pinstripes beats the heart of a buttoned-down Barnum. But the fact is that while he enjoyed visiting parks as a child, Mr. Burke, the Bronx-born son of a homicide detective, did not contract the amusement park virus until he joined Premier's predecessor, Tierco Group, in 1989.
By then, Mr. Burke had taught high school English, practiced corporate and real estate law and worked as an investment banker at Drexel Burnham Lambert. Through his work at Drexel, he came to know some of the family members who controlled Tierco. When offered the chief executive's position there, he readily accepted.
Now an amusement park junkie, Mr. Burke regularly takes his four children, aged 6 to 13, on the rides at Premier parks and those of the competition. So do most other Premier executives, including James F. Dannhauser, the chief financial officer and also a Harvard law graduate, and Gary Story, the president and chief operating officer, who started in the amusement park business at 16 and has managed parks from Mexico to Australia. (Mr. Burke and Mr. Dannhauser are based in New York; Mr. Story and most other senior executives have offices in Oklahoma City.)
Rides, after all, are the heart of the business -- the draw that brings people back again and again. When Premier added a river rapids ride at Frontier City in 1990, for example, attendance increased by 60,000 that year and has continued to rise.
(The Oklahoma City park was briefly closed for cleaning and safety inspections after it was hit a little more than a week ago by a tornado and high winds that caused a few injuries and some minor damage.)
Premier prides itself on running family parks with rides for all ages. At its Adventure World in Largo, Md., for example, visitors may choose from a water park, 14 children's rides and 34 adult rides, including Roar, a world-class wooden roller coaster.
Interviewed recently at the park, Selina Bankert was about to take her three sons home to Annapolis, Md., for their naps. She would be back many more times this summer, she said, because she was a second-year season ticket holder, and her 5-year-old son, John, and his 2-year-old twin brothers, Scott and Paul, loved the park.
"It's a good value for us," she said of her season ticket, which she bought for $44, "because we come at least once a week for an hour or two."
Across the country, at the 109-year-old Elitch Gardens in Denver, Tommy and Adaire Toms of York, Neb., are among some 75,000 season ticket holders. This day, the Toms, who spend a good deal of time in the Denver area, were accompanying their son, daughter-in-law and two of their 11 grandchildren.
"We came here soon after our first date in 1955," Mr. Toms said.
"We danced to all the big bands," Mrs. Toms remembered, ticking off several band leaders, including Harry James and Les Brown, whose photographs hang on the walls of the park's rebuilt Trocadero ballroom.
Waving to their grandchildren suspended in the air inside a huge teacup -- one of 48 rides in the park, including a $30 million package of new attractions installed last year -- Mrs. Toms said, "It's still a great place to spend a day with kids."
Tim O'Brien, an editor of the weekly Amusement Business magazine in Nashville, said that while Premier parks have generally shunned the glitz -- and high prices -- that accompany the better-known high-technology rides, "their rides have always been good and have been getting better." Those at Six Flags are "just awesome," he added.
When all is said and done, the smaller attendance and lower admission prices at Premier parks have had no noticeable effect on the company's financial performance -- except maybe to enhance it, by impressing on management the value of running a lean operation.
After acquiring Elitch Gardens last year, Premier promptly moved park executives from a high-rise office tower to the park itself. And Premier is now in the process of trimming the ranks at Six Flags Astroworld Houston, which had 140 full-time employees, twice the number at Elitch, where attendance is about the same.
The seasonal operation of Premier's parks is another reason for the company's success, Mr. Burke said. "It enables us to operate with fewer full-time employees year-round," he said. "We also do a rigorous budgeting process from September to December, we refurbish every ride at every park, and we plan our marketing campaigns, our telemarketing and our group sales."
Still another explanation of the company's strength goes back to the early days with Frontier City. The company realized that it had become part of "a fragmented industry with a lot of parks out there that didn't have the necessary capital or management skills," Mr. Burke said. "So we knew if we could demonstrate to the financial community that we could turn Frontier around, we could acquire other parks."
Before its purchase of Six Flags, Premier concentrated on acquisitions in areas that had at least a million people within a 100-mile radius, and today it has parks in 16 of the top 25 markets, including Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco and Washington. With the Six Flags purchase, some 175 million Americans live within 150 miles of a Premier park.
Along the way, Premier maintained a low enough profile to execute its game plan virtually undetected. That is why so much of the industry and Wall Street were taken by surprise when Premier bought Six Flags for $965 million, plus the assumption of about $890 million of debt.
"On the surface, Premier paid a pretty full price," said Mr. Zachar of Nationsbanc Montgomery. "But Six Flags' cash flow last year was about $160 million, and those parks were undermanaged, so there are still margins to grow."
How? "Warner's made money from its parks," Mr. Burke said, "but they were in the amusement park business not so much for the revenue as for the sale of merchandise and the exposure of their characters. But our only business is parks. So this transaction allows each of us to concentrate on our core business."
Analysts share his confidence. Both Mr. Petrella of Lehman and Jill S. Krutick of Salomon Smith Barney say the company's stock could trade at $70 or more in 12 to 18 months.
Once the 12-month breather is over, where will the Premier roller coaster go next? Possibly it will range farther abroad to areas that are only now awakening to the lure of amusement parks, namely Europe, Asia and Latin America. Many foreign markets, Mr. Burke said, are as fragmented as the United States was in the 60's and 70's.
That could make for a thrilling ride.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The roller coaster at California's Six Flags Magic Mountain, which is among the big acquisitions by Premier Parks and its chief executive, Kieran Burke. (Scott Robinson for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "The Mouse and the Hare"
Disney's theme parks business is the global leader, but Premier's stock is flying higher. Chart comparison of Premier Parks and Walt Disney. (Sources: Lehman Brothers; Amusement Business magazine via Lehman Brothers; NationsBanc Montgomery Securities; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 1)
 
Table: "Almost Too Much Fun"
Disney and Universal Studios continue to dominate the top of the list of the nation's biggest theme parks. But Premier Parks's acquisition of Six Flags gives it a foothold in the rankings, just below Anheuser-Busch's Sea World and Busch Gardens. (Source: Amusement Business)(pg. 11)
 
Map: "Opportunity in the Fun House"
After an aborted real estate development venture in Oklahoma City forced it into the amusement park business, Premier Parks spent a decade establishing a stable of a dozen or so small parks around the country. This year, it switched into high gear, paying $1 billion in February to acquire 12 Six Flags parks and buying 49.9 percent in six parks in Europe a month later. Below is Premier Parks' U.S. empire of fun, with attendence figures in millions. Map shows location of the parks. (pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SIX (NYSE) (93%); DIS (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (93%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (93%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (85%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (85%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (85%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PREMIER PARKS (CO); DISNEY, WALT, CO; TIME WARNER INC SIX FLAGS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (93%); WALT DISNEY CO (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: PREMIER PARKS (CO); DISNEY, WALT, CO; TIME WARNER INC

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT PARKS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (92%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); TICKET SALES (66%); LAWYERS (50%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN WALTER ELIAS 'WALT' DISNEY (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



528 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
A Gentler Breeze Is Blowing Through Moscow

BYLINE: By PHILIP TAUBMAN 

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
The warmth and lingering daylight of a Moscow summer could make even the harshest periods of Soviet rule seem less demented. The appearance of flowers and fresh fruits and vegetables in barren markets temporarily lifted the city's spirits, creating the illusion that this was just another European capital marking time until the August holidays.
Now it is no longer an illusion. Moscow may not be Paris or Rome, but it is no longer a world apart. The differences of dress, demeanor and politics that made Moscow so distinctively depressing have melted away. From its monumental traffic jams to its supermarkets, boutiques and elegant restaurants, Moscow is a big, bustling, brash metropolis exploding with energy and entrepreneurial activity. 
 To see the city again after an absence of three years, and to compare it to the Soviet citadel of 10 years ago where I worked as a correspondent, is to appreciate anew how far Russia has traveled since the demise of Communism. The economy is shaky, corruption is ubiquitous and the power of the wealthiest bankers and businessmen remains largely unchecked, but these and other deformities should not overshadow the political and economic changes that have transformed Russia in just a few years. Almost as swiftly as the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution sealed Russia in hermetic isolation, the arrival of democracy and capitalism have set it free and tied it to the West, culturally and economically.
Moscow is the epicenter of change, and the locus of wealth, in the new Russia. It will be some time before the rest of the country, including St. Petersburg, comes anywhere close to matching the standard of living now enjoyed by many Muscovites.
One of the best seats for observing the new Russia is on the terrace outside the cavernous McDonald's at Pushkin Square. Though the novelty of Big Macs has faded, the restaurant still has cachet with Russians and serves as a mecca for affluent young Muscovites. They arrive in Jeep Cherokees and Toyota Land Cruisers, cell phones in hand. The men are dressed nattily in light-weight pleated trousers, colorful sport shirts and tasseled loafers, the women in short skirts, tight tops and stylish Italian shoes. The scene seems almost unimaginable to someone who lived here a decade ago.
The McDonald's also attracts working-class customers who have become indistinguishable in appearance from their counterparts in London or New York. The nondescript Soviet wardrobe has almost entirely vanished, replaced by jeans, colorful outfits and Nike or Reebok shoes. Even eyeglasses and sunglasses are sleek. After decades of enforced conformity in everything from clothing to politics, Russians have seized the chance to assert their individuality.
Across from the McDonald's is a small plaza that is part of the boulevard that circles central Moscow. Once a cheerless place with a few scruffy benches and an expanse of dirt, it is now the site of a leafy beer garden where people congregate after work, engaging in easy conversation as the daylight stretches far into the evening. The talk is of business and politics, romance and vacation plans. The fear that once permeated Moscow and made it so inhospitable to such gatherings is gone.
The press is full of lively debate and invective, the television news a cascade of irreverent reports. Even more remarkable is the Internet, where information of all kinds is available about the Government and the economy. Where implacable customs agents once enforced Soviet censorship at Sheremetyevo airport, there is now an unobstructed "green channel" for passengers with nothing to declare.
The new Russia is an unfinished work. It is a land that favors the young and those unbroken by Communism and has little patience or compassion for those unable to adapt. But Moscow, at least, is increasingly a city where people can enjoy life. Considering its history, that is no mean feat.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316219 OTHER FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS316211 RUBBER AND PLASTICS FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS315239 WOMEN'S AND GIRLS' CUT AND SEW OTHER OUTERWEAR MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS315228 MEN'S AND BOYS' CUT AND SEW OTHER OUTERWEAR MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (52%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (52%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (52%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (77%); FRANCE (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); 

COMPANY: NIKE INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; MOSCOW (RUSSIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (77%); FRANCE (72%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); TRENDS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: TAUBMAN, PHILIP

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



529 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: Yin and Yang;
In Asia, America's Foe Is Also Friend

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
AS President Clinton crams for his trip to China this week, he must be yearning for those simpler days, not so long ago, when it was much easier to explain to Americans the distinction between friends and foes in Asia.
During the first Clinton Presidential campaign, the Chinese Government was the menace, run by dictators "coddled" by President Bush as they oppressed Tibet, threatened Taiwan, forced abortions and swiped American technology. Then there was Japan, America's biggest military ally and partner in Asia. Sure, the Japanese kept out American car parts and computer chips, barriers that Mr. Clinton vowed to smash. But whenever trade quarrels got really nasty, cooler heads in Washington would remind people that it was Japan -- market oriented and host to American troops -- that Washington could count on in times of crisis. 
 But no one then could imagine the kind of crisis Asia faces today: economic meltdown. And if you listen closely to the oratory of Washington before the most important foreign trip of Bill Clinton's Presidency, things sound very different. On Tuesday Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin took to the podium of the White House to declare that "China has been an island of stability in Asia" -- a savvy, responsible player in the global effort to tamp down the economic firestorm that started in Asia a year ago.
And Japan? The view from Washington these days is that it is spreading the bubonic plague of the markets -- wild instability -- while refusing to take the cure. When Mr. Rubin went to the Oval Office Monday night to tell Mr. Clinton that the United States had to reverse policy, spending billions in the currency markets to prop up the yen, he described it as a desperation effort to save Japan from itself. Inside the Treasury, his aides have a new title for the Japanese Finance Minister, Hikaru Matsunaga: Minister for the Destruction of the World Economy.
This huge shift in perspective is not universal, of course. Many in Congress still view China as a security threat, and last week they kicked into high gear the hearings over whether the Chinese are exploiting liberalized American commercial export laws to improve their spy satellites and nuclear missiles. Not surprisingly, the White House is drafting and re-drafting the remarks Mr. Clinton will deliver in China to make sure he presses the themes of human rights and nonproliferation.
 
Threat and Ally
In calm times this would be a delicate balancing act. But it is made far more complex by the realities of Asia's economic turmoil. China may remain America's huge military threat, but it has emerged in recent months as an equally huge economic ally -- insuring, at least for now, that crisis does not become catastrophe. And Japan, home to the American bases that keep Chinese power in check, has become an economic drunk driver. Its steps to deregulate the economy, reform its banks and cut taxes are widely viewed as inadequate, and no one even talks anymore about turning Japan into an engine of Asian recovery.
"Whether you run a country or a company, you better figure out how to live without Japan for a while," says John S. Wadsworth Jr., chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia.
 
Seizing a Moment
Naturally the Chinese see this an opportunity. In return for a pledge to hold their currency stable -- which President Clinton is expected to seek this week, and which is in China's interest anyway -- they want acknowledgment of China as the new economic leader of Asia. That's a stretch (China's economy is still a fifth the size of Japan's) but nothing makes the Chinese happier than when American officials repeat Mr. Rubin's mantra that "sometime in the next century China will be the world's largest economy." After all, a decade ago the Japanese thought that trophy would belong to them.
China's constant reminders of American-Chinese cooperation in World War II, fighting side-by-side against you-know-who, are part of a campaign to portray China as Asia's leader and America's indispensable partner. It's no secret why the Chinese insisted that Mr. Clinton only visit China on this trip: They wanted the imagery of Air Force One flying right past Japan. (To make amends, Japan's Prime Minister, Ryutaro Hashimoto, has been invited to visit Washington in July.)
"The stars are lined up for them, because Japan is in such disfavor around the world," said Jeffrey Garten, the dean of the Yale School of Management. "They know that we have no one else to turn to for managing the economic crisis."
Mr. Garten suspects the Chinese have a more specific agenda in mind. They want to swap continued cooperation for America's commitment to get them into the World Trade Organization and a pledge to draw back American support for Taiwan. The Chinese have made no secret of their unhappiness with a revision of the security treaty between Japan and the United States last year, which they viewed as part of a broader effort to contain Chinese military power.
 
Time Bomb
It's never been easy for the United States to maintain an equilibrium in its relations with Japan and China. One has always been in vogue, the other out. But rarely have things been this complicated, when American security interests and American economic interests have pulled in different directions.
And add to that another wrinkle. The Clinton Administration is praising China's economic management today in part to encourage it to defuse an economic time bomb down the road: China itself.
"China today has the characteristics of every Asian country that was hit by the crisis -- but worse," says Michael Walton, the director of poverty reduction at the World Bank. Take a look at some numbers you are not likely to hear President Clinton rattle off in the next two weeks. Somewhere between 25 and 30 percent of all the loans on the books of Chinese banks are not being paid back and probably never will be. That means there is now at least $270 billion in bad debt in China (compared with $600 billion in much richer Japan). Moody's Investor Services warned on Friday that China's big state banks are "in reality heavily insolvent."
But what about those impressive skyscrapers in Shanghai that Mr. Clinton will roar past in his motorcade on the way to a roundtable with cell-phone-toting Chinese entrepreneurs? Vast numbers of them are sitting empty. And while the entrepreneurs represent China's future, up in the industrial northeast unemployment rates are running near 30 percent. The numbers are getting worse as Zhu Rongji, China's new Prime Minister, shuts down vast steel plants and mines that Mao opened 40 years ago with a bunch of nifty slogans but no business plan.
 
The Wall
So what has protected China from the economic calamity that has hit its neighbors? A second Great Wall: its currency, which is not freely convertible. That means the speculators of the world can't move money freely in and out of China. Sealed off from the markets, China has sidestepped George Soros and his friends, pegging its currency to a fixed exchange rate with the dollar. (It helps that the Chinese have built up a war chest of $150 billion in foreign reserves.)
But there are ways for the world to get around the wall. As the dollar has soared, China's exports -- the fuel of its economic growth -- have become far more expensive overseas. Suddenly the countries whose currencies have dropped so dramatically -- Korea, Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia -- are selling goods more cheaply and cutting into China's market share. And that is reducing China's growth rate at the moment it desperately needs money to finance its perilous transition to a market economy.
So it is no surprise that when the Japanese yen fell to scary new lows last week, the Chinese began to scream. Japan's economy is so big that it could force another round of huge currency devaluations -- a second, far more fearsome phase of the Asia crisis. Chinese leaders began threatening to devalue their own currency. China's nervousness is one reason Mr. Rubin intervened in the markets to bail out the yen.
But the Treasury Secretary made no secret of the fact that he was forced to select among bad choices. He wanted to force Japan to make structural changes before he helped the yen -- massive deregulation, tax cuts, shutting down the sickest banks. The Chinese, he notes, have addressed their problems far more directly than Japan has.
What he got last week was a new commitment from Japan -- one that may or may not be worth any more than previous commitments. If it isn't, then he has only bought a little time. And sooner or later, Japan's troubles could become China's -- and the world's.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Hashimoto of Japan and the President in Britain in May. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (96%); JAPAN (96%); ASIA (95%); TIBET (92%); TAIWAN (92%); 

STATE: SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN COMMERCIAL VEHICLES (52%); WORLD ECONOMY TRADE (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (96%); JAPAN (96%); ASIA (95%); TIBET (92%); TAIWAN (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CURRENCIES (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ESPIONAGE (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (70%); TRENDS (65%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (60%); ABORTION (56%); EXPORT CONTROLS (50%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (50%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



530 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
On the Other Hand

BYLINE: By Eric Schmitt 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
SHOULD China benefit from American technology? The United States is pulled both ways. Few embody the tug of war better than Representative Dana Rohrabacher, a conservative Republican from a California district with high-technology industry. Lately, in criticizing transfers to China approved by the Clinton Administration, he seems caught in the contradictions of American policy. Look at what he said four years ago, and what he says now. ERIC SCHMITT 
 At a September 1994 House hearing on space, Mr. Rohrabacher favored looser restrictions:
If the No. 1 threat to the United States today seems to me not coming from a military threat but instead an economic threat to our well-being, don't these restrictions that we are talking about . . . put us at a disadvantage in terms of this major threat to our well-being in terms of the international economic competition in the area of high technology? Maybe you could tell me specifically what specific damage to our national security would be caused if we would just transfer all communications satellites from the munitions list to a commercial dual-use list. . . .
I would hope that our industrial leaders who are making these decisions do not fall back to the position that they just want to protect the use of old technologies from the new competitive threats that are coming from China and the former Soviet Union. . . .
We are very concerned that in this new era that we are entering, post cold-war era, era of global competition, we can't have our top businessmen hampered by bureaucratic roadblocks.
But he was for tightening them last month as he voted to ban the export of American satellites to be launched on Chinese rockets:
How is it that the Communist Chinese have improved their missile capability? You better sit down, Mr. and Mrs. America, because it appears that several large American high-tech corporations, in collusion with the Clinton Administration, provided technology to the Communist Chinese that perfected their nuclear weapons delivery systems. . . .
It takes the wind right out of your lungs, does it not, just to think about it? If this is true, it is the worst technological betrayal of the American people since the Rosenbergs. This is nothing less than a catastrophe for the security of our nation and the safety of our people. . . .

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mr. Rohrabacher.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DIRECTV (91%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SATELLITES; LAW AND LEGISLATION US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); COLD WAR (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); APPROVALS (72%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (68%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (67%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (65%); EXPORT CONTROLS (63%); 

PERSON: ROHRABACHER, DANA (REPR); SCHMITT, ERIC DANA ROHRABACHER (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



531 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:

MARKETS
Even With Yen Supported, Stocks Bounce About
A bystander could be forgiven for thinking the stock markets had gone off their lithium. The Dow industrials skidded 207.01 points on Monday, to 8,627.93, only to soar 164.17 points on Wednesday and fall 100.14 on Friday. The blue-chip average ended the week at 8,712.87, down 122.07 from last week. Behind the stock market's zig was the currency market's zag. The fall reflected fears that Asia's economic crisis would hurt profits of American companies. Then the United States and Japan bought yen to bolster the sagging currency, and investors stampeded back into the markets, only to have second thoughts about the Asian situation on Friday. The yen, which had neared an eight-year low on Monday at 146.15 yen to the dollar, recovered to end the week at 136.10. 

WALL STREET
Goldman Going Public
Clearly the tradition that Wall Street holds most dear is profit. So little wonder that Goldman, Sachs & Company, the Street's last big private investment bank and by many measures its most successful, decided to end its 130-year partnership and go public. The move could make Goldman a prime player in the financial industry's rush to consolidate and allow the partners to capitalize on the long-running bull market. Right? No, contended Jon S. Corzine and Henry M. Paulson Jr., co-chairmen and co-chief executives of the big investment bank. Mr. Corzine said, "This is not about money or cashing out." Mr. Paulson added, "We don't think that being a financial conglomerate is the way to go." They did say, however, that they intended to make some acquisitions and to expand in Europe and Japan.
 
TOBACCO
Sound, Fury and Then Silence
After a month of contentious debate and too few votes for passage, the Senate jettisoned a comprehensive tobacco bill that would have resolved much of the litigation against tobacco companies. Although there appeared to be almost no hope that it could be revived this year, leaders of both parties vowed not to give up. Speaker Newt Gingrich said he would put forward a low-budget alternative to the Senate bill, intended to discourage teen-agers from smoking. Above, Kelly Tietjen, 13, and Alex Stevens, 14, smoke in a park in Princeton, N.J. President Clinton pledged to continue the fight, saying: "It's not dead over the long run because the public health need is great. "
 
AUTOS
Strike Cripples G.M.
General Motors' North American operations were crippled, with 100,000 employees out of work, most of its assembly plants shut down and nearly 100 parts factories idle. At issue in what began as a U.A.W. strike at two key Michigan parts plants are not only short-term job security and workplace safety disputes, but also a larger struggle over how far G.M. will go in adopting at home the manufacturing techniques it is introducing abroad. G.M.'s operations in Brazil, where outside suppliers assemble many parts for new cars before delivering them to the assembly plant, are the company's most profitable, efficient and flexible. The United Automobile Workers see G.M.'s reliance on outside suppliers as a threat.
 
COMPANIES
Buffett's Insurance Policy
Berkshire Hathaway, which is controlled by Warren E. Buffett, announced a $22 billion deal to acquire the insurer General Re. Berkshire's already considerable insurance portfolio includes Geico. . . . America Online, the nation's largest cyberspace company, E-mailed employees to say that it had discussed being acquired by AT&T but would remain independent. . . . The Walt Disney Company announced a complex $900 million deal to buy 43 percent of Infoseek, a service that helps guide users to what they want on the World Wide Web.
 
THE ECONOMY
Reports Are Mixed
The American economy has continued its excellent performance, the Federal Reserve said in its "beige book" survey of regional economic conditions, citing high employment levels and stable prices. But the Consumer Price Index rose a seasonally adjusted three-tenths of a percent in May, the Labor Department said, bringing inflation for the first five months of the year to a 1.5 percent annual rate. The rise, although moderate, was the largest in 17 months. The Commerce Department reported that the trade deficit for April expanded to a new monthly record of $14.5 billion, well above the $13.3 billion projected by many economists, in large part because Asia's crisis has reduced demand for goods.
 
MANAGED CARE
A California Failure
After two and a half years, three chief executives and $11 million in losses, California Advantage is filing for bankruptcy. That's the managed care company that the California Medical Association and 7,500 of its member physicians created to take on the state's big health maintenance organizations. Dr. Jack C. Lewin, a family practitioner and executive vice president of the association, said that by offering subscribers easy access to thousands of specialists, it tended to attract those who were the sickest and costliest to treat. California Advantage, which said it needed 40,000 subscribers to break even, is going out of business with about 6,000.
 
PEOPLE
It's Tough at the Top
Richard Branson, below, the British entrepreneur whose diverse Virgin Group holdings include airlines, high-speed trains, retail stores and soft drinks, says he wants to start a low-cost airline tentatively called Virgin America. So far he has been blocked by Federal restrictions that prevent foreigners from controlling domestic airlines. . . . Live by the chain saw, die by the chain saw. Albert J. Dunlap never winced at the moniker "Chain Saw Al"; rather, he frequently boasted of the thousands he had thrown out of work to lift a company's stock price. Add one to the list of the downsized. A board room revolt at Sunbeam led by some of his hand-picked directors decided the ailing company needed a new boss (See articles, page 4). . . . As Barney's emerges from bankruptcy, Bob and Gene Pressman, the founder's grandsons, are stepping down as co-chief executives.
 
TAXES
Washington's Silly Season
What better way to win favor with voters than to oppose taxes? The House, citing the complexities and inequities in the tax code, voted 219 to 209 to require that Congress come up with a new tax system by Independence Day 2002 and scrap the current code by the end of that year. Clint Stretch, director of tax policy for Deloitte & Touche, said wryly that it was easy to vote that way because the members of Congress knew the President would veto any such law, rescuing them from their folly. "Sun-setting" the tax code would make financial planning impossible for both individuals and businesses, Mr. Stretch said, citing such issues as whether to rent or buy a home, whether to put money into I.R.A.'s or other retirement plans and whether to take capital gains on stocks. And businesses would not know whether and how to invest in new plants and equipment.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Associated Press; Reuters)
 
Graph shows national trade deficit in goods and services, since Nov 1996. (Source: Commerce Department); Dow Jones industrial average last week. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (88%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (79%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LEGISLATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SMOKING (67%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (67%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (62%); PLANT CLOSINGS (62%); TOBACCO MFG (61%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (60%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (60%); LITIGATION (50%); 

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (55%); JON CORZINE (54%); NEWT GINGRICH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



532 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

HEADLINE: DIARY: CHINA;
An Array of Traders Resists the Forces Of Destabilization

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chinese traders worked at their computer terminals at the Shanghai Stock Exchange on Tuesday, even as the People's Bank of China intervened to support the yuan, which is also called the renminbi. The Finance Minister said that the Asian crisis could destabilize China's currency, a warning that some analysts suggest influenced a decision by Japan and America to support the yen. A Chinese devaluation could have kicked off a new wave of Asian devaluations, leaving the region's economies in an even more precarious state. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (79%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA BANK OF CHINA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; CHINA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CENTRAL BANKS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



533 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Details 6 Neutral Countries' Role in Aiding Nazis

BYLINE: By JAMES RISEN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 20

 BODY:
Ever since the current uproar erupted over the fate of looted Nazi gold, the role that Switzerland played in helping to finance Hitler's war machine has been the focus of debate.
But as investigators in the United States and other countries have scoured musty archives of World War II for clues, they have repeatedly stumbled over evidence raising broader questions about the nature of neutrality during the war. 
 Those questions have now come to the fore in a State Department report that takes a broad look at the role played by all of the major neutral countries in aiding Nazi Germany.
The report -- which looks at Spain, Sweden, Turkey, Portugal and Argentina, in addition to Switzerland -- highlights the degree to which each country created its own definition of neutrality to survive and to prosper at a time when all the old rules had been thrown to the wind.
"Our report indicates the complexity of the notion of neutrality," said Stuart E. Eizenstat, Under Secretary of State for Economic, Business and Agricultural Affairs, who coordinated the State Department research effort.
The standards for acceptable behavior by belligerents and neutral countries had been part of the European tradition for hundreds of years. But they offered little guidance to countries facing the blitzkrieg, legal scholars and historians said.
"The rules in place were designed for wars that were not crusades," said Detlev Vagts, an expert on international law at Harvard Law School. "The rules were designed for much smaller wars."
Gordon Craig, a leading scholar of German history and professor emeritus at Stanford University, said: "When you come right down to it, what standards could be applied to the neutrals during that war? It was very difficult to be a small nation in a Europe dominated by Hitler."
And so those legal guidelines that did exist were often simply discarded, or consistently violated, by many of the neutrals.
"It is clear that these countries were committing unneutral acts even by the standards of the times," Mr. Eizenstat said.
Sweden was among the most aggressive in stretching the meaning of neutrality throughout the war, the report found. Surrounded by German forces in Norway, Denmark and Finland, Sweden was vulnerable throughout the first few years of the war to German intimidation.
The Swedes allowed German troops to cross their neutral territory to join the German invasion of the Soviet Union, and also allowed 250,000 German troops to use the Swedish railroad system to travel between occupied Norway and Germany. The Swedish Navy provided escort service for German military supply ships, while Swedish industry helped the Germans make up for the losses suffered in their critical ball-bearing industry from Allied bombing raids.
Spain went even further, creating a new international status by declaring that it was a "nonbelligerent," rather than a neutral. Franco's fascist regime intended the claim of nonbelligerence to signal that it was leaning Hitler's way but was not willing to give up the benefits of staying on the sidelines. Yet even without officially joining the Axis, Spain provided as many as 40,000 troops, supposedly volunteers, to fight on the Russian front alongside the Germans in what was called the Spanish Blue Division.
Spain also remained an important German source of wolfram ore, a mineral used in making tungsten, a very hard metal critical to the German industrial base, the report says.
Each neutral's definition of acceptable neutral behavior clearly shifted along with the fortunes of war.
At the onset, for example, Turkey joined an alliance with Britain and France. But after the fall of France in 1940, it dropped out and followed Spain's lead, declaring itself a nonbelligerent. The British tried repeatedly to coax Turkey back into their camp, but the Turks refused to declare war on the Axis until Feb. 23, 1945 -- just as Germany was being crushed.
In the meantime, Turkey enjoyed the benefits of a bidding war between Germany and the Allies for its chromite ore. Essential in the manufacture of stainless steel, chromite was one of the few raw materials considered essential to the German war effort for which there were no adequate sources in German-held territory.
The State Department report is most critical of the neutrals for their refusal to give up their trade and financial relationships with the Nazis late in the war, when Germany had long since lost its ability to threaten or intimidate. In many cases, the neutrals kept trading with the Germans until the end.
"The war could have been shortened by months or years if the neutrals had cut back on their trade with Germany by 1943," Mr. Eizenstat said.
Gerhard Weinberg, a World War II scholar at the University of North Carolina, put it this way: "The No. 1 motivating factor for these countries was making money. The fact that they were making agreements just before the end shows that they still wanted to make as much money as possible from trade with the Germans."
What is more, the neutrals were reluctant after the war to give in to Allied demands to return looted gold they had received in trade with Germany.
Indeed, even though the Allies asked only that the neutrals return gold they had received directly from Germany -- and not the Nazi gold that had been transferred through Switzerland -- the neutrals were still "tenacious in not returning gold," Mr. Eizenstat noted.
Still, the State Department report is being criticized for adding relatively little to the historical record. Critics say it is nothing more than a diplomatic effort to divert attention from Switzerland's role in aiding the Nazis by showing that other countries did, too.
"If you are working at State, you want to not be seen as aiming all your arrows at Switzerland," said Sidney Zabludoff, an international economist who has written a study on Nazi gold sponsored by the World Jewish Congress. "I think because the report tried to be diplomatic and deal with a number of issues about neutral countries, it lost its focus."
But Mr. Eizenstat stresses that the new report is actually just as damning of Switzerland as the previous State Department report on gold looted by the Nazis, since it details how important Switzerland was in financing German purchases of critical exports from other neutral countries. The five other neutrals examined took in about $300 million in gold from Germany -- much of it looted -- and about three-fourths went through the Swiss National Bank, according to the State Department.
In effect Switzerland was serving as Germany's central banker, giving it the financial power to keep buying from other neutrals -- and keep fighting.
"This report continues to point the finger at the Swiss," Mr. Eizenstat said, "but it also looks at the neutrals to see what uses the looted gold was put to."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (56%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); SWEDEN (95%); SWITZERLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (93%); NORWAY (92%); PORTUGAL (87%); ARGENTINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); FINLAND (79%); DENMARK (70%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (57%); 

COMPANY: CRAIG A WEST (54%); STATE DEPARTMENT (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND; SPAIN; SWEDEN; TURKEY; PORTUGAL; ARGENTINA; GERMANY (95%); SWEDEN (95%); SWITZERLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (93%); NORWAY (92%); PORTUGAL (87%); ARGENTINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); FINLAND (79%); DENMARK (70%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (57%); 

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (1939-45) WORLD WAR II (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); HISTORY (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); LAWYERS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); ARMED FORCES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

PERSON: RISEN, JAMES STUART E EIZENSTAT (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



534 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Offer No New Measures, Just Pledges, to Bolster the Yen

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 20

 BODY:
The Japanese Government pledged before a meeting of the Group of Seven industrialized nations today that it would revive its economy and repair its banking system, but it fell short of saying anything new or specific.
The failure to spell out further measures to restructure the economy seemed a step backward from the expectations that had been raised just a few days earlier. When the United States joined with Japan on Wednesday to intervene in foreign exchange markets to prop up the yen, President Clinton and other American officials strongly hinted that Japan was ready to take new steps to bolster its economy, but today those steps seemed more elusive than ever. 
 In fact, the Japanese Government insisted that it had made no promises of further restructuring in exchange for American support for its currency.
"If you ask if there are secret agreements between the United States and Japan: there are none," Eisuke Sakakibara, Deputy Finance Minister for International Affairs, said this evening at the conclusion of the G-7 meeting of deputy finance ministers.
Financial markets throughout the world surged in the last few days in part on the expectation that the yen's long slide had ended and that Japan would undertake new policies to improve its economy. It is not clear how the markets will react in the coming week to the lack of any clear new steps to emerge this weekend.
The United States Deputy Treasury Secretary, Lawrence Summers, who is in Tokyo to attend the meeting and hold talks with officials here, called his discussions with Japanese officials "very useful" and said that they were aware of the urgency of the situation.
"What is going to be most important going forward is the steps that Japan takes to take advantage of this window of opportunity," said Mr. Summers at a news conference today. "There is a clear recognition of the need to move rapidly."
But he would not say whether Japan had outlined new economic measures or how confident he was that it would respond decisively.
The meeting of G-7 officials, expanded to include representatives of 10 Asian countries, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank, was intended to put pressure on Japan to take further steps and to reassure the financial markets that there was a new determination on Japan's part to address its problems. But the vagueness of the simple statement issued by the meeting's participants today suggested that it would not be easy to keep up the momentum for cooperation if Japan does not move fast to mend its economy.
In the statement, the United States and other countries agreed to "monitor developments" and cooperate "as appropriate" in the foreign exchange markets, but there was no mention of any effort to reverse the decline of the yen, which has fallen by 42 percent against the dollar since its peak in 1995.
"We issued a statement expressing our seriousness and urgency of the matter," Mr. Sakakibara said. "I think they believe our seriousness."
One problem is that Japan has repeatedly promised before to tackle its economic and banking troubles. And while it is pushing through with a grand scheme, called the "Big Bang," to restructure the financial industry, it has backtracked on some of its previous pledges to liberalize its markets and to create a more open financial environment.
Japan is also preparing a proposal, called the "Total Plan," to eliminate the huge bad debts that threaten the nation's banking system. But this was in the works well before the American-Japanese intervention.
It is not clear whether President Clinton and other Americans were expecting Japan to announce a major new effort to bolster the economy. But Japanese officials seemed puzzled by what Mr. Clinton and Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin were thinking when they suggested that bold new actions by Japan were in the works to justify a higher value for the yen. "I'm very much afraid that he doesn't understand what's going on in Japan," a senior Finance Ministry official said of Mr. Rubin.
Mr. Summers emphasized that Japan needed to increase transparency in the way its financial industry operates and to tackle the bad loans. Japan also needs to work out a mechanism to deal with troubled financial institutions, some of which are on a lifeline from the Bank of Japan, the nation's central bank.
Japan is just about to start carrying out a $120 billion fiscal stimulus package that includes at least $58 billion in real spending and $30 billion in temporary income tax cuts. It has also set aside nearly $220 billion to bail out the nation's banks, which are burdened by more than $600 billion in bad or doubtful debt.
Already, economists say that Japan is likely to see growth in the third quarter this year. But regulators, officials and economists abroad are still concerned that Japan is not moving fast or far enough to alter radically the nature of its financial system and the overall economy. So they fear that once the public money runs out, Japan's economy may slump again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); ATB (ASX) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (63%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; TOKYO (JAPAN); JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%); 

PERSON: SUMMERS, LAWRENCE (DEPUTY SEC); WUDUNN, SHERYL LAWRENCE SUMMERS (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



535 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: China's Entry in World Trade Organization Is Called Unlikely

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, June 20

 BODY:
China is not ready to make the economic changes necessary to join the World Trade Organization, the top American trade negotiator said here this evening after two days of talks with Chinese officials, casting ice water on any lingering hopes that a trade breakthrough might be announced during President Clinton's state visit in the coming week.
"There's a lot of talk, but China is not yet ready to walk the walk," said Charlene Barshefsky, the United States Trade Representative, saying that China has made too few of the concessions to open its markets to outsiders that Western countries demand as a condition of entry into the 132-nation organization that sets the rules for world trade. 
 Chinese trade officials were not immediately available for comment on Ms. Barshefsky's remarks. In the past, China, which has been trying to enter the organization for 11 years, has been defensive about the membership issue, describing the opposition to its entry as unfair and politically motivated.
But now that the country is in the midst of a politically risky revamping of state enterprises, which has raised unemployment, coupled with the fact that it is also facing the Asian financial crisis, some senior leaders may in private be relieved at the prospect of putting off W.T.O. membership and its potentially painful obligations.
"The Chinese Government has not yet decided whether W.T.O. accession is compatible with its domestic agenda," said Ms. Barshefsky in a meeting with reporters. "I don't believe the leaders are confident that it would leave them flexibility in the way they pursue internal reforms," she added.
In return for minimizing trade barriers, members of the trade organization enjoy better access to the markets of other members, which include all the developed Western nations, Japan and many developing nations.
Trade negotiations between China and the United States, which has taken the lead among Western nations in part because its own trade deficit with China is huge, have been crawling at best for some time, and diplomats have recently played down expectations for progress during the coming summit meeting.
Though membership in the global trade body has been a political goal of China's leaders, in recent months it has become clear that enthusiasm for accession has been far from universal. Some ministries and industries in what remains a largely state-run, bureaucratic economy have worried about the rapid opening of ailing domestic industries to foreign competition, and an end to the monopoly positions of state-run commodity traders as well as banks, insurance companies and other service sectors.
The major areas of dispute, in addition to high tariffs on many imported goods, include restrictions on agricultural imports and on the ability of outside companies to gain a foothold in such service industries as financial services, accounting, tourism, law and telecommunications, American officials say.
Over time, there is a "positive trajectory" in the talks, Ms. Barshefsky said, but the progress is "slow and uneven."
"Plainly they have not come to grips fully with the changes that would be required to join the W.T.O., Ms. Barshefsky said of Chinese leadership. "I also believe they have not come to grips fully with the fact that W.T.O. is not a political organization, it's a commercial organization."
China has publicly insisted it should be admitted to the trade body under special, more lenient conditions granted to less developed countries. But Ms. Barshefsky said that this question of national status had been irrelevant in actual negotiations; rather, the frequent and protracted talks over the last two years have focused on what specific commitments China would make to provide genuine market access.
While China's leaders may be glad to put off potentially destabilizing changes in trade policy, Ms. Barshefsky warned that the status quo was not acceptable either. In the current trend, she said, by the end of this year the United States alone will have a $60 billion trade deficit with China, while Europe and Japan also face major deficits. Chinese officials say the figures are overstated.
In the long term, the opening of markets required by the trade organization should aid the domestic transition to a more free and productive economy, Ms. Barshefsky said, noting that Mexico had used its external opening to great domestic benefit. But the Chinese leaders are too preoccupied with the costs and dangers of their domestic reforms to focus on those potential gains, she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (89%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; BEIJING (CHINA); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (89%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); TRENDS (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); INSURANCE (70%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (60%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); AGRICULTURE (50%); 

PERSON: BARSHEFSKY, CHARLENE (US TRADE REPR); ECKHOLM, ERIK BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



536 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Jobs as Abundant As Summer Dreams For Young Workers

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: GAFFNEY, S.C.

 BODY:
Unaware of just how much muscle she had, Sharai Correll took a job as a waitress recently at the local Cracker Barrel restaurant, the kind of steady, air-conditioned summer work that generations of teen-agers with limited options would have far preferred to, say, scrounging for lawns to cut.
But one day of orientation was enough for Ms. Correll, an 18-year old premed student. She quit abruptly and took a job as a sales clerk at Fila, a shoe and sportswear retailer that is one of the employers at the 68-store Carolina Factory Shops complex in this town of 25,875 competing almost desperately for summer help. 
 "Working here is a lot easier than working at Cracker Barrel," said Ms. Correll, who also briefly entertained offers from the Dress Barn and the Gap and was ambitious enough to take a second job working mostly weekends at the Upstate Carolina Medical Center.
"Five jobs in two days!" she exclaimed, amazed at the leverage she and friends command in the market for summer work, where many students have long had to settle for unappealing or low-paying jobs.
The benefits of America's lowest unemployment rate in three decades are unmistakable in South Carolina. Heavy doses of foreign investment have helped drive the statewide jobless rate down to 2.5 percent this spring from 4.4 percent a year earlier, according to figures from the United States Department of Labor.
The experience of South Carolina's young job seekers is not replicated everywhere. In New York City, for example, finding a summer job remains a challenge. Yet, even in the city, economists say a decline in unemployment should open up more jobs for young people. Page 22.
And in many places around the country, tight job markets mean youth unemployment is at its lowest point in a decade.
Here, summer work is likely to come at pay well above the $5.15 minimum wage. Young workers typically enjoy hefty discounts on purchases, often can demand enough flexibility to allow the occasional long weekend at the beach and may even collect a bonus of $200 or more for lasting the whole summer.
Indeed, a recent swing through the northwestern and central parts of the state found a litany of employer grief about the inability to attract needed workers, in many cases with adverse effects on business.
For example, even though vacation season for regular workers is not yet in full stride, it already takes longer for customers in Columbia, the state capital, to get through the checkout line at some supermarkets. The jobless rate has dived to an unheard of 1.4 percent, and even lifeguard jobs, among the most coveted, go begging.
"I could use about four kids right now," said John Ferguson, the manager of a Piggly Wiggly grocery store in an affluent section of Columbia. "My level of service is not what I want it to be."
Another, more far-reaching result of surging demand for summer workers is that young blacks here are increasingly being drawn into the labor market.
Nationally, the unemployment rate for 16- to 19-year-old blacks remains sky high, at 29.4 percent in May, compared with 14.2 percent for young people of all races. Still, joblessness among black teen-agers is down -- from 33.9 percent a year ago. And the shift is a significant development in South Carolina, where the population is 30.1 percent black, about two and a half times the national figure.
Jamie Devine, 18, who is black, is working this summer as a loan administrator at Carolina First, a regional bank, doing tasks such as calculating loan payoffs for people taking out new mortgages.
"If you want a job, you can get a job," said Mr. Devine, who is putting in a full week for more than $8 an hour after working part time at the bank during the year while attending Benedict College in Columbia. "It teaches you discipline."
Betsy B. Boineau, a vice president who oversees Carolina First's paid internship program, told of one black teen-ager from the College of Charleston who was hired as a teller this summer but quit to take an even better job two days after starting work.
"I was so disappointed," Ms. Boineau said. "It gets harder and harder to get good people."
Even rural areas of South Carolina, which once offered little but arduous farm work, provide a choice of appealing jobs this summer. In Joanna, a speck of a place midway between Greenville and Columbia, Brooke Bradley, 16, happily tends a video store -- much of the time watching movies -- for $5.25 an hour after changing her mind about a job offer from Pizza Hut.
"I just called them back and canceled it," she said. "This is more steady."
Some employers have been unable to find extra summer hands at all, among them the Phoenix, an elegant Greenville inn. "If six qualified college kids walked in right now, they'd have a job," said Walter Gallman, the banquet manager, citing his need for waiters, bellmen and front desk people who, he said, could average $300 a week for 25 or 30 hours of work.
"It's incredible. I've never seen a summer like this -- there's help wanted everywhere," said Douglas Woodward, research director at the University of South Carolina's Darla Moore School of Business. "Any 16-year-old who wants a job can find one in this state right now."
Acute demand for young workers has not pushed wages up drastically this summer; employers are still trying to compete on working conditions and perquisites. But at a job fair in Greenville sponsored by the Urban League of the Upstate, recruiters for United Parcel Service said that the $8.50 to $9.50 an hour they could offer under the company's national pay scales had become relatively less attractive as competitors' pay creeped higher.
Not so long ago, "we were leaps and bounds above" the competition, said Jim Mahaffey, one of the recruiters. "There's not a whole lot we can do except go out and beat the bushes."
Even students who want jobs but do not want to give up their summer at the beach are bargaining from a strong position.
The Myrtle Beach Pavilion, a huge resort complex of rides and attractions, which employs as many as 1,600 people at the season's peak, still needs to find 300 more workers, said Scott Radwick, who is in charge of hiring for the resort's owner, Burroughs & Chapin.
With housing scarce, increases in hourly pay of 10 or 15 cents this season may not do the job.
"Every employer around here is resigned to the fact that it's going to be a tough hiring season," Mr. Radwick said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sharai Correll had five job offers in two days in South Carolina. (Nancy Pierce for The New York Times)(pg. 22)
 
Graph: "Young at Work"
Teen-agers from 16 to 19 are finding it easier to get a job this summer. Graph tracks monthly unemployment figures for blacks, hispanics, whites, and all teen-agers, since 1990. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA; UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES; CHILDREN AND YOUTH UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); SEASONAL WORKERS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); RETAILERS (76%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (55%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (51%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR SHARAI CORRELL (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



537 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: In Albany, a Year to Turn Defeats Into Election Issues

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 20

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki began the year with a modest list of things he wanted out of the Legislature: end parole for violent felons, permit charter schools, allow casino gambling, toughen penalties for juvenile criminals.
He got none of those. But while the 1998 legislative session, which ended Friday, may look like a bust for the Republican Governor, it gave him a few handy issues to use as he runs for re-election this year, particularly the time-worn theme that Democrats are soft on crime. 
 He signaled as much in a news conference on Friday afternoon in which he reviewed a session that was widely seen as one of the least eventful in memory. Mr. Pataki bemoaned the gridlock in the Capitol, and blamed the Democrats who control the Assembly.
"Every single criminal-justice change we've tried to get was fought tooth and nail in the Assembly," he said. "I just think there are an awful lot of people in the Assembly, particularly the Assembly leadership, who go back to the old philosophy that it's society's fault when someone is a violent criminal."
Mr. Pataki's political advisers calculated that there was not much he needed, politically, from this session, and they may have been right. Polls show him with huge leads over his Democratic rivals, and the Governor seemed to spend more time this year touring the state to promote his record than working in the Capitol to enhance it.
Even his allies in the Legislature say that except for the parole issue, he did not break a sweat this year lobbying for his agenda.
He can tell communities in western New York and the Catskills that see casinos as their best hope for economic development that he tried, but he did not push the issue hard enough to raise the ire of conservatives who oppose gambling. And he can tell minority communities that favor charter schools that he fought their fight, only to be thwarted by the Assembly's top Democrats, though the Republicans who control the Senate were in no hurry to go down that road, either.
In a way, it was a year made for political posturing, and not just because of the coming election. In years past, lawmakers often hitched smaller issues to larger ones, giving them leverage to get more things done.
But this year, for the first time since Mr. Pataki was elected in 1994, there were no momentous issues hanging over the lawmakers' heads, no budget crisis, no plan for deep cuts, no rent controls ready to expire, no deadline for welfare reform. As legislators noted repeatedly all year, there was nothing that, for either side, had to be done.
In the final days of the session, there were a few notable pieces of legislation passed, including one requiring that people infected with H.I.V. be reported to the State Health Department and their sexual partners notified. Lawmakers also agreed on a program of inspections and emissions-testing for heavy trucks and buses, something long sought by environmentalists. And a deal was struck on the management of the new Hudson River park in Manhattan that places some limits on development along the river.
For the Assembly Democrats, especially Speaker Sheldon Silver, the session went much as it did for Mr. Pataki. They, too, calculated that there was not much they needed, politically. They, too, entered the year with a limited agenda, and in defeat found election-year ammunition.
Mr. Pataki's broad budget vetoes in April denied the Democrats much of what they wanted, including a $500 million increase in spending on school construction and a tripling of spending on child care. Mr. Silver refused to negotiate with Mr. Pataki and the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, on restoring some of the vetoed items, saying it was all or nothing.
From the start, the Speaker made it clear that he would rather have the issue to use against Mr. Pataki than have a fraction of the money back. And as the session ended, Mr. Silver kept up his attacks on the Governor with an eye toward the November election.
"I would think that the people of this state will recognize that while Wall Street is booming, Main Street is not booming in New York," he said. "The Governor chose to veto some very sound proposals that were passed through legislators of both parties."
The Assembly Democrats called for steps to reduce New York's auto insurance rates, knowing well that the Republicans would reject them. Again, even before the session had ended, the defeat had become a campaign issue, as the Democrats running against the Governor piggy-backed on the Assembly's plans and blamed Mr. Pataki for high premiums.
It was telling that when asked what he considered the major achievement of the session, Mr. Silver cited not a piece of legislation, but a process: the negotiation of a budget through public conference committees with the Senate, rather than in private talks.
Somewhat obscured by the furor over the vetoes was the Democrats' achievement of some of the things they wanted most this year, including a large increase in basic school aid, expansion of the state's health care program for poor children, and a process for people to appeal when their health insurance companies deny coverage for certain treatments.
And in other areas, they may have inoculated themselves against attack.
The Assembly passed a criminal-justice package that included the Governor's proposal to end parole, though it also included other measures that Mr. Pataki and the Senate refused to accept. In the end, no law was enacted, but the Democrats can go home and tell voters that they, too, voted to abolish parole.
So attractive was that measure as a piece of political cover that all the Republicans in the Assembly voted for it as well, for fear that they would be accused of opposing the anti-parole measure.
In the final week, Mr. Silver offered to work out a compromise in conference committees, a proposal the Republicans rejected. Of the Governor, he said, "He believes he has it better as a campaign issue than as a law, that it suits his purposes."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CASINOS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GAMING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PAROLE (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); FELONIES (78%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (78%); POLITICS (78%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); BUDGETS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (64%); RENT CONTROL (60%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (53%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



538 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Still Tough in New York, but Getting Better

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
Finding a summer job is far harder for teen-agers in New York City than it is for their peers in most of the nation for reasons ranging from a shortage of lawns to mow to competition from recent immigrants.
They are not alone, of course. Teen-agers in Los Angeles, Miami and other cities also have a much tougher time finding employment. 
 But in New York, at least, the outlook is improving. Economists say the city's summer job market seems to be the best in years, both because overall unemployment has dropped and because retailing is promising more entry-level, temporary and part-time jobs.
"Retail activity has been one of the biggest growth areas, and it is a sector that tends to hire kids over the summer," said John L. Weiting, the regional commissioner of the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics.
He said the growth in retail sales had combined with a strong surge in adult employment -- 83,000 jobs were created in the city during the 12 months that ended in May -- to create "the backdrop for a greatly improved summer jobs market."
The usual challenges confronting city teen-agers are reflected in Government data, which for years have shown that the unemployment rate among New York teen-agers is about double that for the nation.
One unalterable cause for the disparity, experts say, is the sheer size and economic landscape of the city, in which jobs suitable for young people are sometimes simply too far from where they live.
Economists say another problem is that the city, compared with its suburbs, provides relatively few of the jobs related to summer recreation that are part of growing up in much of the nation. Demand for camp counselors, lifeguards, golf course caddies and gardeners' helpers is always sparse in the city compared with many other places.
"Tourism is very strong in the city, but the kind of jobs it generates are at the high end in expensive restaurants, hotels and other places that really don't hire many young people," said Jim Brown, an analyst for the New York Labor Department.
But despite the hurdles teen-agers continue to face in the city, the experts say more opportunities exist this summer, particularly for those willing to work in a store.
"The really positive thing about the increased retail activity is that it is not concentrated in one or two areas, it is spread around the city," Mr. Brown said. "That means teen-agers have a better chance of finding a summer job close to home."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; CHILDREN AND YOUTH SEASONAL WORKERS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); GOLF (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); SALES FIGURES (75%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); STATISTICS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); RETAIL SALES (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (62%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J JAMES NATHANIEL 'JIM' BROWN (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



539 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: As Colombia Picks New Chief, Rebels Voice Their View

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, June 20

 BODY:
For months now, the campaign posters and rallies for Horacio Serpa of the Liberal Party have championed him as the presidential candidate best able to negotiate an end to the civil conflict that has virtually dismembered this Andean nation, leaving some 31,000 dead.
Mr. Serpa's campaign has promised that this former Interior Minister, who is from the working-class oil port of Barrancabermeja, could draw on his ties to the political left to find the elusive path to peace. 
The only risk to this election strategy, political analysts warned, was it might make Mr. Serpa appear overly friendly toward the rebels and undermine his credibility with the military and business elite.
But in these final days of campaigning for the election of a successor to President Ernesto Samper on Sunday, the two main rebel groups issued stinging criticisms of Mr. Serpa.
The biggest group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, known by its Spanish acronym FARC, blamed him for the breakdown in peace talks with the Government six years ago, and accused him of waving the banner of peace solely for electoral gain.
In a move worthy of his nickname ("Sure Shot"), Manuel Marulanda, a rebel leader who had not been photographed publicly in 10 years, held talks at his secret hideout with a representative of Mr. Serpa's Conservative Party rival, Andres Pastrana, and allowed a picture of the meeting to be published in newspapers here.
The smaller National Liberation Army criticized both candidates.
The surprising turnaround in the two candidates' stands as peace negotiators is only the latest in a series of strange twists in the election that will end the presidency of Mr. Samper, who has spent most of his turbulent term fending off accusations that Cali drug dealers financed his election. In the first round of the election, on May 31, Mr. Serpa won 34.64 percent of the votes and Mr. Pastrana 34.32 percent.
If the bywords of the candidates have been "peace" and "change," the word political analysts here frequently resort to is "paradoxical."
While the country is reeling in almost every sense after four years of Mr. Samper -- economically, socially and politically -- the leading candidate in voter surveys until today has been Mr. Samper's staunchest defender and hand-picked successor, Mr. Serpa.
In his letter of resignation as Mr. Samper's Interior Minister last year, Mr. Serpa wrote, "You, Mr. President, have set an example of equanimity, dignity and patriotism, and under your leadership the Government will, with good fortune, overcome the enormous challenges that have arisen."
Nevertheless, Mr. Serpa said in a pre-election debate that he would not rule out extraditing his former boss to the United States should Washington seek this.
By contrast Mr. Pastrana, whom voters might have thought more likely to surrender the unpopular President to the American authorities, rejected extradition.
In a final voter survey published in the daily El Tiempo today, the two candidates were tied, with Mr. Pastrana leading by less than 1 percent.
Mr. Pastrana, 44, who is favored by the business community here, is the son of former President Misael Pastrana. A former Mayor of Bogota, he could, in theory, make the most convincing case for offering Colombia a fresh start, since he has been out of government for the last four years.
His television campaign advertisements list the violence, corruption and other troubles of Colombia over the last four years with Mr. Samper's face gradually fading into that of Mr. Serpa.
But Mr. Pastrana lacks the charisma of Mr. Serpa, 55, who has managed to put the Conservatives on the defensive by predicting that he will privatize state industries. Mr. Pastrana has been reduced to pledging his opposition to privatization.
Mr. Pastrana has produced a more detailed peace proposal than Mr. Serpa. As part of a settlement, he has proposed ending the use of herbicides to kill drug crops, calling instead for an internationally backed plan to offer coca-growing peasants alternative ways to earn a living.
Mr. Pastrana lacks the media backing and the Government support enjoyed by Mr. Serpa. The Government ombudsman's recent review of election campaign coverage showed television stations, which depend on the Government for their operating licenses, giving substantially more air time to Mr. Serpa.
Noemi Sanin, an independent presidential candidate whose unexpectedly strong showing in the first round of voting has turned her into an arbiter of political morality, has also denounced the Samper Government for doling out free publicity to Mr. Serpa on the Government-run television station and for publicly supporting his candidacy.
Ms. Sanin, whose 2.6 million votes could provide the winning margin for Mr. Pastrana, has declined to support either candidate.
Jorge A. Castro, a 59-year-old egg wholesaler, said he supported Mr. Serpa because "he knows our country's problems."
Asked if Mr. Serpa was not responsible for some of them, Mr. Castro gathered up a handful of coins. He picked out a silver-colored coin to represent Mr. Samper, as the chief who was responsible for his Government's actions, and a brass one to represent Mr. Serpa.
"See, they're not even the same color," he said.
The most pressing issue, along with the economic troubles, has been negotiating an end to the conflict that the military here has been unable to win in the last 30 years.
Each candidates has said that if elected, he would take charge of negotiations with the guerrillas, with Mr. Pastrana adding on Friday that he would seek a meeting with Mr. Marulanda, the FARC leader, next week. Both candidates have said they would agree to a guerrilla demand for the withdrawal of Government security forces from five municipalities as a requirement for negotiations.
But it was Mr. Samper's agreement to pull back troops from the five municipalities, a move that the rebels had been seeking unsuccessfully for three years, that prompted the rebels' public attack on Mr. Serpa.
"Now, with electoral ends to win votes and guarantee the triumph of Dr. Serpa," President Samper "offers to evacuate," said a communique from the rebels, which also criticized Mr. Serpa's record as a peacemaker over the last 12 years.
As chief peace negotiator under President Cesar Gaviria, the rebels say, Mr. Serpa closed peace talks in Mexico, ushering in the "total war" offensive against the guerrillas. As Interior Minister under Mr. Samper, he saw the creation of armed citizen's defense groups known as convivirs, which the guerrillas and human rights groups both contended were mechanisms to legalize paramilitary death squads.
A Colombian court has now ruled the defense groups illegal.
On Thursday, Mr. Serpa said he would name Alvaro Uribe Velez, the former Governor of Antioquia who led the creation of defense groups around Medellin, as his Defense Minister, apparently in an effort to establish his credentials among the military and conservative landowners.
"There's a rhetoric of peace, but in practice there's been an increase in terror while he's been in government," said Carlos Franco, a former guerrilla of the Marxist April 19 Movement, known as the M-19, who has joined other political figures to support Mr. Pastrana. "I think all this led the FARC to conclude that Serpa's chances of negotiating peace were low."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Horacio Serpa, the Liberal presidential candidate in Colombia, says he is better qualified than his opponent, Andres Pastrana, to negotiate an end to the civil war, but he has drawn sharp criticism from the rebels. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (73%); 

COMPANY: REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; COLOMBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); NARCOTERRORISM (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); EXTRADITION (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (63%); RESIGNATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN; SERPA, HORACIO; PASTRANA, ANDRES HORACIO SERPA (97%); ANDRES PASTRANA (93%); ERNESTO SAMPER (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



540 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: Education Is Watchword in Election

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE, N.M., June 19

 BODY:
Ask Phil Maloof for his most important legislative proposal if he is sent to Congress in a special election on Tuesday, and he has a ready reply: "We need more computers in the classroom for kids."
His Republican rival, Heather Wilson, was so eager to highlight her bona fides on education that she did not mention that she was a Rhodes Scholar or an arms negotiator in the Bush Administration. Instead, she noted that she had been one of five finalists to be superintendent of the Albuquerque public schools. 
 Around the nation, candidates for state and local office are talking far more about education than any other theme. Nowhere is that better demonstrated than here in New Mexico's First Congressional District, where a race to succeed Representative Steven H. Schiff, a Republican who died in March, sometimes resembles a contest for a seat on the local school board more than an election to the United States Congress.
Mrs. Wilson has tried to skewer Mr. Maloof, a Democratic member of the State Senate, with television commercials that accuse him of skipping sessions of the chamber's higher education committee. Everywhere he goes, Mr. Maloof emphasizes his endorsement from principals of seven schools in his Senate district. His commercials attack Mrs. Wilson for not voting in the last three school board elections here.
Beyond the focus on education, the closely contested campaign -- the only full-scale Congressional election before November -- offers an important preview of what awaits voters (and even the candidates) as the midterm election year unfolds.
Attack commercials are alive and well. For all their pledges to stay on the high ground, Mr. Maloof and Mrs. Wilson have not been timid about flinging oratorical mud. Both sides agree that the campaign in this usually placid state is the nastiest they have seen here in years.
Judging by this race, it is also clear that Democrats still intend to demonize Speaker Newt Gingrich, as they did successfully in the 1996 elections. In a new Maloof commercial, the announcer warns that Mrs. Wilson would abolish the Department of Education. "Tell Heather Wilson to stop siding with Newt Gingrich," he says as side-by-side photographs of Mr. Gingrich and Mrs. Wilson pop on the screen. (Republicans, by contrast, have not featured Mr. Clinton, who is fairly popular in this state.)
The commercials of the 37-year-old Mrs. Wilson, a former head of the State Department of Children, Youth and Families, portray the 31-year-old Mr. Maloof as an empty suit. "I just don't think he understands the issues," the announcer intones. "Phil's just too young."
One explanation for the intense personal attacks may be another reality of the 1998 campaign: With the hardy economy, the campaigns here are having a particularly hard time engaging uninterested voters. As a result, the Maloof and Wilson campaigns are running particularly aggressive telephone and literature drives to get people to the polls on Tuesday. Except for an organization advocating term limits, which is running advertisements backing Mr. Maloof, outside interest groups are preserving their advertising budgets for the regular House races.
While this race offers important clues for November, it is crucial in its own right, which helps explain why Hillary Rodham Clinton and Tipper Gore, as well as Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the House Democratic leader, and Representative Patrick J. Kennedy of Rhode Island, are coming here this weekend to campaign for Mr. Maloof. Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader, is scheduled to campaign here for Mrs. Wilson.
If Mr. Maloof manages to wrest the seat from Republicans, then Democrats would have to pick up only 10 seats in November to retake the House. Officials on both sides agree that whoever wins the election on Tuesday to complete Mr. Schiff's term will be the favorite when the candidates face off again in November. (Earlier this month the two candidates won their parties' primaries for the general election.)
"The winner has all the momentum going into the fall," said Steve Grossman, national chairman of the Democratic Party.
The latest polls show the race dead even in the district, which is split roughly between Republicans and Democrats. But polls show that the Green Party candidate, Robert Anderson, is gaining ground and could siphon votes from Mr. Maloof.
But Mrs. Wilson is still trying to recover from a 60-second Maloof commercial that says she "abused her position of power" when she was in the Cabinet by trying to remove a confidential case file with potentially embarrassing information about her husband, Jay Hone.
Mrs. Wilson asserted that the advertisement was "full of lies." Her aides concede, however, that it has been the single most damaging development in the campaign. "We lost eight points overnight," said Steve Bell, Mrs. Wilson's chief strategist. "It was like a torpedo amid ships."
Beyond their deep ideological differences, Mrs. Wilson and Mr. Maloof could not be more dissimilar in their personal styles, backgrounds and personalities. Mr. Maloof is from one of New Mexico's wealthiest and most prominent families, which made its fortune in the hotel, casino, liquor and banking industries. His father, George J. Maloof, was so prominent that there is a bronze statue of him in downtown Albuquerque, with the inscription, "philanthropist/humanitarian."
Mr. Maloof has dipped into the family fortune to lend at least $1.2 million to his campaign, and is expected to spend closer to $2 million; Mrs. Wilson has raised nearly $1 million.
Mr. Maloof's biggest weaknesses are that he lacks a deep command of many issues, is prone to misstatements and often comes off as uncomfortable, even frightened, at campaign forums, particularly when he ventures beyond the stock Democratic talking points that he repeats again and again. At debates, while he appears earnest, he sometimes relies on briefing books. The missteps are so frequent that the National Republican Congressional Committee has enough material to regularly put out a flier titled, "Mal-OOPS!"
At their last televised debate, on Thursday night, Mr. Maloof was asked whether he would support programs to protect the Mexican gray wolf and spotted owl, even if they cost jobs. Instead of answering the question, Mr. Maloof noted that he was supported by environmental groups and favored the Endangered Species Act, and added, "I enjoy camping -- it's something I really enjoy." Then he quickly tried to change the subject to education, only to be admonished by the moderator.
Mrs. Wilson has sought to make Mr. Maloof's wealth an issue, a strategy Lieut. Gov. Gray Davis of California used in defeating a multimillionaire rival, Al Checchi, in that state's Democratic primary for governor this month. Her slogan, "You just can't buy the experience Heather Wilson has," is an adaptation of the Davis slogan, "Experience money can't buy."
But in an interview, Mr. Maloof was at a loss to explain the differences between his race and that of Mr. Checchi. "I don't know what hurt him," he said.
Mrs. Wilson, a former Air Force captain who was on the National Security Council staff in the Bush Administration, is far more articulate. But she has never run for elective office before and lacks Mr. Maloof's deep roots in the community.
Mrs. Wilson moved to the state less than seven years ago, and her accent sounds more like she is from her native New Hampshire than from the Southwest. She was the choice of Senator Pete V. Domenici, the state's senior Senator.
For all her smoothness on the stump, her own pollsters have found that voters are put off by Mrs. Wilson's officious and sometimes stiff manner and her preference for eye-glazing policy discussions. Determined to make herself likable, Mrs. Wilson tries to smile her way through campaign appearances.
Mr. Bell, who has taken a leave as Mr. Domenici's chief of staff to run the Wilson campaign in the final weeks, likens Mrs. Wilson to Senator Richard G. Lugar, an Indiana Republican who is highly respected but also one of the more colorless lawmakers in Washington.
Asked in an interview why she has hit so hard on what she describes as Mr. Maloof's unpreparedness, Mrs. Wilson said: "There are a lot of people in Congress and in public life, average people of average intelligence. Or even below average intelligence. I don't think that's it, really. There's something else. Maybe it's confidence or experience."
Particularly in the final days of the campaign, officials on both sides said their own polls showed that education had shot up as by far the most critical issue.
"All the polling shows that the undecided vote is the female vote," said Tom Hujar, Mr. Maloof's chief consultant, "so both candidates are going very heavily in terms of their appeals toward women. So education is in the forefront."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Phil Maloof, top, is the Democratic candidate for a House seat in New Mexico's First District. Heather Wilson is his Republican foe. (Photographs by Steve Northup for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (94%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; ADVERTISING ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); CHILDREN (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (76%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (76%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (67%); FAMILY (63%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; MALOOF, PHIL (SEN); WILSON, HEATHER; SCHIFF, STEVEN H (REPR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; GORE, TIPPER; GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REPR); KENNEDY, PATRICK J (REPR); ARMEY, DICK (REPR) HEATHER WILSON (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); PATRICK J KENNEDY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



541 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 8; Page 4; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL: NOTEBOOK;
No Budging in Negotiations

BYLINE: By MIKE WISE 

 BODY:
There is still time for National Basketball Association players to form a team and compete for the United States in Athens this summer, just as there is still time for the players and owners to agree on a deal that would insure labor peace before the current collective bargaining agreement expires on July 1.
But given the stubborn climate of recent negotiations, neither appears likely. Even with a meeting scheduled for Monday in Manhattan, both sides appear headed toward a long, tense summer of bargaining. With major monetary issues on the table, the league faces the growing possibility of losing games to labor strife for the first time. 
 "Eventually, you have to make a deal," said Russ Granik, the league's deputy commissioner, who is heading the negotiations on behalf of the owners. "The only question is when and how much damage you do before you get to that point."
Billy Hunter, the executive director of the players' association, proposed last Wednesday that both sides agree to a moratorium rather than the owners' locking out the players. A lockout would prohibit any N.B.A. business between players and teams, meaning the free-agent signing period, set to begin July 1, would be postponed indefinitely.
But the owners will not accept any deal that allows more contracts or trades to be signed and consummated under the current rules. Barring major concessions, two league officials confirmed Friday, a lockout is imminent.
Using the world championships in Athens as a platform, the 12 N.B.A. players selected to the team have decided to boycott the games until a labor agreement is reached. USA Basketball, the organization that selects teams for international play, stoked the fires last week, saying it would send another team to Athens.
There is hope for Grant Hill, Gary Payton and friends to play overseas. FIBA, which oversees international competition, has privately intimated to USA Basketball that it would accommodate last-minute replacements in order to field the best team possible. It is a move that would clear the way for N.B.A. players to decide to compete shortly before the games begin on July 29.
But while rosters and dates are negotiable, apparently the players are not budging. "In all probability, if there is a lockout, the players will be inclined to vote not to go," Hunter said.
According to a lawyer familiar with the negotiations, the owners want to install a hard salary cap, essentially a fixed amount each team can spend in a season, without exceptions. Over the next two or three seasons, teams would also like to phase out the Larry Bird exception, in which teams can pay their own free agents whatever they want, regardless of the salary cap.
For the owners, the ultimate goal is to reduce salaries over a three-year period so that they do not exceed 48 to 50 percent of revenues. They also would like to limit individual salaries so that one or two players do not gobble up all the money on a roster.
Whereas the owners see their proposals as finally bringing some economic balance to a league of $100 million-or-bust contracts, the players view the approach as taking back what it is already theirs.
"They're not even on the same planet right now," said a union official who requested anonymity.
The perception among players is that Commissioner David Stern is wedded to the idea that they will give in if they have to miss paychecks. The players' resolve may indeed be tested.
 
Draft Variables
This is what preparation for the N.B.A. has come to: A guy who had not played five-on-five basketball until two years ago may end up going No. 1 in Wednesday's draft.
Now hedging on whether they will select Arizona point guard Mike Bibby with the first pick, the Los Angeles Clippers may take the University of Pacific's 7-foot-1-inch Nigerian, Michael Olowokandi, this week in Vancouver, British Columbia. The club is said to be divided on which player it will choose, leaving the door open for the first five or six selections.
Vancouver, which is said to be interested in taking the Kansas forward Paul Pierce at No. 2, is still entertaining offers from teams for its pick. The Denver Nuggets, who have the third pick, are worried the Toronto Raptors will move up from No. 4 to No. 2 in order to take Olowokandi or Bibby, thus forcing them to take Pierce instead of the big man they covet.
Kansas' Raef LaFrentz, North Carolina's Antawn Jamison, Vince Carter and the St. Louis shooting guard Larry Hughes all figure to be in the next group of players, along with Michigan's Robert (Tractor) Traylor and Utah's Michael Doleac.
 
Filling Out the Bulls
With the season put on hold, so, too, is the future of the Chicago Bulls.
Bulls Chairman Jerry Reinsdorf continues to express desire about re-signing Michael Jordan, Scottie Pippen and Dennis Rodman to prevent the franchise from falling into immediate decay.
If Jordan can persuade Pippen to somehow overcome his long-held resentment against management in the next few months or whenever the owners and players settle their labor war, the possibility of a reunion for one more season exists.
But if Chicago loses Pippen and Rodman -- along with Coach Phil Jackson, as expected -- look for General Manager Jerry Krause to make some kind of push for the free agent Jayson Williams to fill the rebounding void.
If Chicago could not offer Williams the money the Nets can, it would not be beyond the Bulls to sell their corporate culture to Williams and give him reassurances that he will not retire a poor man. What's more, Toni Kukoc has shown over the past few months that he can pick up much of Pippen's offensive contributions.
For Jordan to come back, he needs to be convinced he can still compete for a title. If Pippen leaves, acquiring another All-Star in Chicago is the only difference between him staying for one or two more seasons or leaving the game again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (61%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; LABOR BASKETBALL (93%); LOCKOUTS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); 

PERSON: WISE, MIKE MICHAEL OLOWOKANDI (56%); MIKE BIBBY (56%); BILLY HUNTER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



542 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Pittsburgh Is Showcase For Women In Policing

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, June 17

 BODY:
A small placard hangs on a wall in Comdr. Maurita J. Bryant's office so that she can always see it from behind her desk. It reads, "Of course women don't work as hard as men; they do it right the first time."
As one of 14 commanders on the Pittsburgh police force, Ms. Bryant gets more than her share of opportunities to do things right the first time. And so do hundreds of other women in blue who patrol the streets of the nation's 48th largest city. 
 On a police force of 1,100 officers, 25 percent are women, the highest percentage of any law-enforcement agency in the United States and more than twice the average percentage, says a recent study by the National Center for Women and Policing, a Los Angeles division of the Feminist Majority Foundation.
The survey, which reflects the composition of 100 agencies in 1997, also found that the Pittsburgh force included the nation's highest percentage of women in command positions, 37.5 percent. In addition to Commander Bryant, whose district has the highest crime rate in the city, five other women in Pittsburgh are commanders, a rank just below assistant chief and deputy chief.
Pittsburgh is just one of a number of major cities where crime rates are steadily falling, and neither Commander Bryant nor any other senior official on the force attributes the trend to the large number of women who are officers. More likely, they agreed, new community policing techniques and updated technology were helping the department to turn from a reactive style, largely responding to 911 calls, to a preventive approach.
Nonetheless, Commander Bryant and other women on the Pittsburgh force say the skills women bring to the job add vital components to policing. Women, they say, are more inclined than men to use communication skills to quell potentially violent situations, and they can bring an extra sensitivity to situations involving children and rape victims.
"When you bring diversity to any work environment, especially policing, you add to the overall performance of the whole department," said Chief Robert McNeilly, who agreed with many women on the force who said that the days when male officers were reluctant to have women as partners were generally over.
But for all the progress women have made on the Pittsburgh force, many fear a backslide. A 1976 court order demanding that for every white man hired, the force had to hire a woman and two members of minorities, one a man and one a woman, expired in 1991. Ever since, the number of women and members of minorities joining the force has slowed. And in a recent lawsuit against the city, eight white men who failed to get jobs on the force, won settlements in a reverse discrimination case.
Officials here say the main impediment to recruiting highly qualified women -- and men -- is the strong national economy, which is enabling private industry to offer higher pay for entry-level positions to people who would be attracted to a career in law enforcement. In addition, municipal budget constraints, as elsewhere, have slowed hiring. Chief McNeilly said he did not expect the city to replace officers who retired or resigned for more than a year.
But those explanations ring hollow to people who track the advances of women in law enforcement. Recalling the days of the court order, Penny Harrington, president of the group that conducted the survey, said, "When they were forced to find women, they found them."
Chief McNeilly and Mayor Tom Murphy said they remained sensitive to the issue and they vowed to take new approaches to find qualified women for the force. They said they intended to step up their recruiting efforts and to focus on women leaving the military as a likely pool of candidates.
But Ms. Harrington criticized that approach, calling it "the old way" of thinking. "Why not look on college campuses, nursing schools, look for paralegals and social workers?" she asked. "They already have the mindset to help people, not kill them."
For the time being, at least, Pittsburgh remains a showcase for women in policing. The survey found that only five other cities -- Detroit, Miami, Philadelphia, Washington and Toledo -- had police forces in which women accounted for 20 percent of officers. In all those cities but Miami, the strong presence of women was aided by a court order, the survey found. On Miami's force of 2,920 officers, no woman serves in a command position.
By contrast, the survey found that 42 agencies -- including the police departments in Nassau County, in New York, and Newark; the state police in New York and New Jersey, and the Port Authority of New York-New Jersey -- had fewer than 10 percent female officers in 1997.
Commander Bryant, 45, who is black and a divorced mother of two grown daughters, leads a district of 124 officers and supervisors who patrol a zone where more homicides are committed than in any other district in the city. She joined the force in 1977, when she was just looking for a dependable job, she said, "and the idea of having a female supervisor was unheard of."
As she rose in rank over the years, she said, attitudes slowly changed as men on the force grew more comfortable with women because of the skills women brought to the job.
In many situations, Commander Bryant said, women serve as a soothing balance to the macho tendencies of male officers, a situation that is influencing men on the force.
Linda Rosato-Barone, 40, the commander of another high-crime zone, who joined the force in 1979, agreed, saying: "I think adding women to the force has helped make the men more sensitive. They hate to hear that they are becoming touchy-feely; they prefer the image of tough and strong. I beg to differ. They're human beings like everyone else."
Recalling her days as a patrol officer, Commander Bryant said, "There were situations where if I had approached them like a man, acting super tough, I'd have gotten knocked on my butt."
Job skills aside, women on the force say there is still some resentment among male colleagues, especially older officers who were on the force before the court order changed its makeup. Sgt. Jim O'Brien, a veteran of 28 years who works in Commander Bryant's zone, said he, among other men, was slow to "welcome women with open arms."
"The majority of men accept the women now," he said. "But there are always a few who still don't."
Commander Bryant, who grew up in a housing project and saw police officers as people to be feared, conceded that old ways die hard among some officers. But most men working under her command, she said, dare not display any signs of discomfort or disrespect.
"I don't hear any snickers," she said. "When you have to discipline a male officer, with white guys you usually see a level of red in their face, and with black guys, you see them tense their jaw muscles. It's interesting to watch."
But the surest sign of progress, she said, may be the blackboard in the men's room, on which officers scribble complaints and nasty remarks -- or so she is told.
"So far," she said with a smile, "I don't think I've been on it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maurita J. Bryant runs a police district in Pittsburgh with the highest crime rate. Commander Bryant, talking with Sgt. James O'Brien, joined the force when "the idea of having a female supervisor was unheard of." Linda Rosato-Barone is one of 14 commanders in Pittsburgh. (Terry Clark for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: WOMEN&POLICING (64%); FEMINIST MAJORITY FOUNDATION (56%); NATIONAL CENTER FOR WOMEN & POLICING (56%); FEMINIST MAJORITY FOUNDATION (56%); NATIONAL CENTER FOR WOMEN & POLICING (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEMINIST MAJORITY FOUNDATION (56%); NATIONAL CENTER FOR WOMEN & POLICING (56%); FEMINIST MAJORITY FOUNDATION (56%); NATIONAL CENTER FOR WOMEN & POLICING (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH (PA); UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; WOMEN CITY LIFE (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); WOMEN (90%); LITIGATION (87%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); SEX OFFENSES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); TRENDS (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (72%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); CHILDREN (50%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; BRYANT, MAURITA J (COMR) JAMES J O'BRIEN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



543 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1826 words

HEADLINE: Voice on Phone Is Not Human, But It's Helpful

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

 BODY:
Later this year, many callers wanting flight information from United Airlines will speak not to a person but to a computer that acts like one. It will ask when and where the caller wants to travel, look up flight schedules and converse using synthesized speech.
A caller can say, "I want to fly from New York to San Jose next Wednesday morning." The system recognizes the names of 1,200 airports around the world and understands concepts like "next Wednesday." Employing advanced forms of artificial intelligence, it interacts with a caller just as an agent might, even checking to confirm that it has heard correctly -- "Did you say Austin or Boston?" 
 United's system is only one example of a wave of new computer technologies that understand spoken language and are poised to sweep through the American economy. In areas as diverse as airline reservations, retailing, directory assistance, banking, medical transcription, computer help desks and secretarial services, machines that can recognize thousands of words and phrases -- and in accents as diverse as Brooklyn and Pakistani -- are rapidly becoming commonplace.
"Speech recognition has passed a threshold," said Raymond Kurzweil, a leading researcher in the field of artificial intelligence. In the next few years, he predicted, "The bulk of business transactions will take place between a person and an automated personality."
There could be problems at first. Some people will have to speak more slowly or clearly than they normally do. And the computers still get tripped up by jargon, accents and questions they are not programmed to answer. For example, an airline reservations system might find itself stumped by a question about ground transportation.
But the systems promise customers new ease in performing every type of transaction. Executives at companies developing the technology say that speech recognition systems are being eagerly embraced by consumers who have grown weary of waiting for customer service representatives and of using a keypad to navigate the seemingly endless mazes of automated menus.
And the relatively few consumers who have found themselves talking to a computer are generally positive about the experience.
For users of United Airline's speech recognition system, there is often a reaction of wonder when they realize that a computer understands their words.
"Sometimes it feels like it's smarter than I am," said Tony Molinaro, a United manager. He began using the company's reservation system, which is now available only to employees, several months ago and routinely uses it to book flights.
At first he said his sessions would take slightly longer than with a human being because the computer would ask him additional questions about which airport he wanted to travel to in the Los Angeles area. But he has since become an expert user.
The system has enough sophistication to know about the members of his family who are eligible to fly. For example, when he refers to his father, the computer asks, "Do you mean Ben?"
"It's very neat that it understands me," Mr. Molinaro said.
Nor does the user's age appear to have any bearing on the ease of adapting to speech recognition. Arthur Edwards of Fort Myers, Fla., 82, is a satisfied user of the voice service offered by Charles Schwab & Company, the discount stockbroker.
"I like to get stock quotes and don't like to have to wait," Mr. Edwards said. The system almost always recognizes without error the stocks he mentions, he said, although he did recall that it once had trouble with some stocks traded on a Hong Kong exchange.
At the same time, the new systems will have a big effect on the American work force. The number of jobs created or destroyed by such systems is a matter of much debate. But many labor experts agree that the new technologies will contribute to the growing polarization of the job market into high-and low-skilled jobs and a corresponding disparity in wealth. On one hand, they will create high-paying jobs for computer programmers and for the many marketing people who sell their work. But in the process, they will destroy semiskilled jobs in customer service, and many people now earning moderate incomes will be forced to move into low-skill jobs at the bottom of the employment ladder.
"This is the scariest economic problem of our time," said Timothy F. Bresnahan, an economist at Stanford University who has studied the effect of new technologies on income distribution. "The most important technological changes tend to be related to big changes in the distribution in wages."
Indeed, jobs that have been among the fastest growing, like travel reservations, telephone sales and customer service, are in danger of being replaced by inexpensive and increasingly flexible speech recognition systems.
Last month, Sears, Roebuck & Company became the nation's first retailer to install a computer system that answers all phone calls at the company's 833 stores, responding to queries and automatically routing calls to the right department.
Sears executives say that while 3,000 jobs were affected by the new system, no workers were laid off. Because of the strength of the economy, the company was able to reassign its telephone operators to new jobs as sales and stocking clerks, but those jobs might not be possible in times of slower economic growth.
The same bullish economy is also fostering widespread investment in speech recognition technologies.
Last fall, Charles Schwab began allowing customers to buy and sell mutual funds over the phone using software developed by a Silicon Valley start-up, Nuance Communications. The system understands the names of more than 1,300 funds and can respond to requests for price quotes for more than 13,000 stocks.
In March, the American Express Company, the nation's largest travel agency, began testing a service that will allow its corporate customers to call computers for flight information or to make airline, hotel and car reservations.
Automation has already had a profound effect on telephone operators. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the number of jobs for telephone, directory assistance and in-house operators fell to 164,000 from 400,000 between 1970 and 1996, a decline of 236,000 jobs.
More than a fifth of those -- 51,000 jobs -- have been lost in the six years since the first rudimentary speech recognition was introduced, according to labor economists and AT&T executives. That system, which can recognize just five terms -- "collect," "operator," "third party," "credit card" and "person to person" -- saves "several hundred million" dollars a year, most of it in labor costs, AT&T says.
Since 1907, when AT&T and the Western Electric Company combined their engineering operations and created the Bell Telephone Laboratory, the growth of the telephone industry has been marked by cycles of huge expansions in employment followed by periods of automation.
The era of operators who manually connected calls at large plug boards began to end in 1919, when mechanical switching was introduced, ushering in the era of dial telephones. It was not until an entirely electronic switching system was introduced in 1963 that operators began to disappear entirely from the process of completing calls.
More recently, the creation of "megacenters" that handle calls for large regions has significantly reduced phone company employment.
Among the workers affected by the concentration of jobs in such centers was Addie Brinkley, who after 40 years of working as an operator in eight different cities quit her job in August 1996 after AT&T closed its call center in Modesto, Calif., and asked her to move to Reno.
Ms. Brinkley's job had fallen victim to a new computerized system that performed many of the functions traditionally handled by operators. AT&T executives say they accomplished the cutbacks with almost no layoffs, but union representatives and operators like Ms. Brinkley tell a more unsettling story.
Her decision to quit rather than move to a directory assistance megacenter in Reno, she said, mirrored the experience of thousands of other phone company workers who have been eased out in the last six years.
"I saw thousands of people lose their jobs," she said, "and I saw the devastated lives."
While few economists assert that speech recognition will be a job killer over all, many predict that like other information-based technologies in the last decade, it will bring profound changes, positive and negative, for workers and consumers.
While today's speech recognition systems are not perfect, they are adequate when used with scripts that reduce the range of expected human answers. And they will improve rapidly if the development of current speech recognition technology is any indicator.
"It's a confluence of small things, from better software design to dramatically cheaper and faster computers," said Ronald A. Croen, chief executive of Nuance. "There was no single breakthrough."
Speech recognition began in the 1960's when computer scientists began to research the idea with financing from the Pentagon's Advanced Research Projects Agency, which created the original Internet.
Despite the optimism of researchers and prototypes built in the 1980's, commercial applications remained elusive. It was not until the early 1990's that companies ranging from giants like I.B.M. to start-ups like Dragon Systems began offering the first commercial systems. The turning point came in 1992, when AT&T introduced the five-term speech recognition technology into its nationwide long-distance network.
One indicator of the effect that speech recognition is likely to have in the workplace emerged soon after the United Parcel Service lost its battle with the teamsters' union last August. Scrambling for new ways to save labor costs, U.P.S. quietly deployed a speech recognition system developed by Nuance that gives package tracking information in response to a caller's spoken commands. Last Christmas Eve, the system handled 193,000 calls, double the daily average for U.P.S. Company officials said the system had paid for itself in less than three months.
Rand Wilson, a teamsters spokesman, said that the system had resulted in "a tremendous loss of workers," adding, "This has been a contentious issue."
For Mr. Croen of Nuance, the changes are justified because the jobs that are being replaced are so tedious. He cites annual employee turnover rates of more than 60 percent for call centers at which operators answer repetitive questions.
However unrewarding the work, some labor experts worry about the number of jobs at risk.
"One of the main sources for new jobs for the middle class over the past 15 years have been telephone sales and information related," said Robert B. Reich, the former Secretary of Labor, who is a professor of economic and social policy at Brandeis University. "Now all those jobs are on the line."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Beep, 'How May I Help You?' Beep"
United Airlines has created a fully automated telephone reservation system for its employees using speech recognition technology. Here is part of a recent dialogue involving an employee using the system to make plane reservations.
 
RESERVATION COMPUTER -- Welcome to the new speech-activated United Airlines employee travel service. If it's your first time calling or if you haven't yet received a personalized letter describing this service, say: Instruction. Please enter or say your your employee file number and check digit.
 
EMPLOYEE -- 101967-5.
 
COMPUTER -- Next, enter or say your six-digit PIN number.
 
EMPLOYEE ENTERS NUMBERS ON A KEYPAD.
 
COMPUTER -- Please hold while I check your file number and PIN. (PAUSE) Please say your departure city.
 
EMPLOYEE -- Chicago.
 
COMPUTER -- Please say your arrival city.
 
EMPLOYEE -- New York.
 
COMPUTER -- United Serves more than one airport in New York. They are J.F.K., New York; La Guardia, New York; White Plains, New York and Newark, New Jersey. Please say the airport code or name you want.
 
EMPLOYEE -- La Guardia.
 
COMPUTER -- What day would you like to depart? For example, March 5th.
 
EMPLOYEE -- Next Tuesday.
 
COMPUTER -- Sorry, I didn't understand. Please say just the month and day you will be departing.
 
EMPLOYEE -- Next Tuesday.
 
COMPUTER -- Got it. Do you have a particular flight number in mind?
 
EMPLOYEE -- No.
 
COMPUTER -- Approximately what time of day would you like to leave?
 
EMPLOYEE -- Late afternoon.
 
COMPUTER -- Before I search for flights, let me confirm your itinerary. You want to fly from Chicago O'Hare, Illinois, to La Guardia, New York, at 3 P.M. on Tuesday, June 23d. Is that correct?
 
EMPLOYEE -- Yes.
 
COMPUTER -- Please hold while I look for flights that match your itinerary. (15-SECOND PAUSE) I found eight nonstop flights that match your itinerary and eight with stops or connections. I'll give you the nonstop flights first. If you need instruction, say: Help. (pg. 20)
 
Graph: "Silenced Operators"
As speech recognition technology has become more prevalent, the number of directory assistance and corporate telephone operators has declined. Graph track figures from 1983 through 1996. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (74%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (74%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; AUTOMATION AIRLINES (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); PATTERN RECOGNITION (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); VOICE RECOGNITION (89%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (88%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (70%); EXECUTIVES (62%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN; KURZWEIL, RAYMOND RAYMOND C KURZWEIL (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



544 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1585 words

HEADLINE: College Efforts To Lure the Best Set Others Back

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER 

 BODY:
Colleges are spending more on scholarships to attract top students and, as a result, they have less to spend on many needy applicants, admissions officers and administrators say.
The once orderly world of financial aid, where colleges avoided bidding against each other and standards of need were well established, is unraveling, replaced by a more competitive environment. 
 Several factors are at work. First, the best colleges have taken a more subjective approach to need, adjusting scholarships to match or exceed offers that students get elsewhere. At the same time, other colleges are taking need into account where they previously had not, rejecting some poorer borderline applicants in favor of better-off ones. And more colleges are dangling scholarships to top students whether or not their families need the money.
As a result, many officials consider this the most competitive financial aid season ever, particularly among private colleges.
Many administrators say that while the most sought-after applicants are prospering, many good but not spectacular students with a need for financial help, including those in minorities, are less able to get it. The role that colleges had taken on in the 1960's to make the best education available to all sectors in society is being compromised.
"We are experiencing a heaping on of greater privilege to wealthy and middle-class kids," said Morton Schapiro, an economics professor and dean at the University of Southern California and co-author of "The Student Aid Game" (Princeton University Press, 1997).
"Will institutions meet the needs of lower-income students?" Professor Schapiro asked. "These days, almost the entire enrollment rate increase is from the middle income and above. The gap between whites' and non-whites' going to college is greater than it was in 1980. The poor are increasingly restricted to community colleges, even being squeezed out of four-year public institutions."
Negotiating over top students may not seem surprising, but financial aid at top universities had for decades been based purely on need as determined by a fairly rigorous formula of income and assets. Using aid to bid for students was unacceptable.
In the past, aid officers even compared offers to specific students so that no institution could offer more for more desirable students. While that practice was ended by the Justice Department in 1991 on the ground that it violated antitrust laws, the determination of need is still theoretically based on formulas. But the truth is more complex.
"What we've got today, unfortunately, is 'Let's make a deal,' and I'm not sure how healthy it is," said Robert M. Kinnally, dean of admission and financial aid at Stanford University. "We really have to get a handle on this growing bidding phenomenon."
The offers received by Joyce Keck of Laredo, Tex., provide an example. When she received replies to her college applications this spring, all were positive.
The class valedictorian and a Red Cross board member, Ms. Keck had SAT scores of 1510 and stellar recommendations. But her parents, a nurse and a Romance languages professor, have middle-class incomes and savings, and paying more than $30,000 a year for a top university did not look easy. Harvard College made an offer of aid, but Rice University in Houston made a more generous one.
So Joyce's mother, Patricia Cigarroa Keck, sent a fax to Harvard explaining the quandary. Four days later she received a reply with a new aid offer -- increasing her scholarship and decreasing her loan -- worth thousands of dollars more per year. The deal was sealed.
"Harvard made it a doable stretch," Mrs. Keck said.
Professor Schapiro's data show that the percentage of students entering college from the bottom fourth of income earners has stayed stagnant at 26 percent since 1978, but has increased by 11 percent for middle-income earners, to 50 percent, and by 9 percent for the top fourth of income earners, to 75 percent.
The reasons for the disparity are numerous and not limited to financial aid practices. Most colleges have continued to increase their aid budgets for the poor and minority groups. But as college costs have soared and Federal aid to colleges has fallen, the ability to meet historic aid commitments has declined.
This has not been a problem for the most selective institutions with the largest endowments. They have fueled the new aid climate with increased willingness to barter for the top students, regardless of income.
Michael McPherson, president of Macalester College in St. Paul and co-author with Professor Schapiro of "The Student Aid Game," says aid is thought of today in entirely different terms from a generation ago.
"If you go back 20 years, most folks thought of the student aid budget as a charity operation run on the side," Mr. McPherson said. "Now it is a real strategic component of revenue raising and enrollment management. There are different prices for different customers, like how airlines price their seats."
Part of what led to such intense competition this season were changes announced first by Princeton, then by Yale, Stanford and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. All said middle-class families were squeezed by out-of-date formulas for financial aid and adjusted their formulas for determining aid, like how much of one's home equity would count as an asset.
The new formulas created a challenge for Harvard, which made clear that it was committed to making "competitively supportive offers of need-based financial aid."
And in an explicit offer of negotiation, Harvard added, "We expect that some of our admitted students will have particularly attractive offers from the institutions with new aid programs, and those students should not assume that we will not respond."
Mrs. Keck said it was Harvard's letter that prompted her appeal.
Harvard's financial aid office was open 12 hours a day six days a week in April for families to discuss their packages.
"We spoke to an unprecedented number of parents this year," said William Fitzsimmons, Harvard's dean of admissions. "Competition had been getting tougher, and this year's announcement by other institutions did nothing to abate the competitiveness. But I think from the student's point of view, it is a good thing. This is America. This is a market."
Perhaps, say those educators worried by the trend, the changes at Harvard and Princeton mean that middle-income families whose children are the cream of their schools can negotiate better aid packages at elite colleges. But the tactics are having a cascading effect. Beyond the top colleges, there is an abandonment of the principle of so-called "need-blind" admission.
"Need-blind" means accepting students regardless of their ability to pay and providing a mix of grants, loans and campus jobs. Many institutions that a decade ago operated by such rules say they no longer can.
"Two years ago we stated publicly that while we had been need-blind in the past, we could no longer afford to do it," said Michael P. Fraher, financial aid director at Vassar College.
Vassar, like Carleton, Smith, Oberlin and others, have become somewhat "need-sensitive" in their admissions procedures in recent years. That means that, particularly toward the bottom of the list of those admitted, such institutions do not promise to meet 100 percent of applicants' needs.
Students from lower-income groups, including members of minorities, who are not at the top of their classes may be rejected because of their inability to afford the tuition, while students of similar qualification but higher income will get in.
"When we look at the bottom 10 to 20 percent of the students," Mr. Fraher said, "we have to ask ourselves whether we really want to commit $18,000 of Vassar scholarship money to a certain student when we can attract two other, perhaps better students, by granting each half that amount."
The other trend that has made it difficult for less-endowed colleges to maintain need-blind policies is the increased use of so-called merit aid, meaning the offering of scholarships to top students whether or not their families need the money. The authors of "The Student Aid Game" say that merit aid grew at a 13 percent annual rate (after adjusting for inflation) in the 1980's and has apparently accelerated since. Need-based aid, as a portion of all aid, fell by one-eighth in the 1980's, although it increased annually by 10 percent during that period.
Through such aid, second-tier institutions seek to lure students who might otherwise choose a more expensive or more exclusive school.
The trend is also visible at some state institutions. This past season, some state legislatures, including those of Kentucky, Florida and Louisiana, which control state university budgets, moved toward merit aid in an effort to keep the most promising students in their states.
The move toward greater use of merit scholarships, particularly at a time of record stock portfolios, has some scholars asserting that colleges are backing away from traditional responsibilities.
"College endowments are at historically unprecedented heights, so the number of need-blind institutions should be increasing rather than decreasing," said Jerome Karabel, professor of sociology at the University of California at Berkeley, who is studying the question. "Institutions of higher education need to ask themselves whether they are moving in the wrong direction."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joyce Keck of Laredo, Tex., decided to go to Harvard University over Rice University after Harvard made some improvements to the financial aid package it offered. Ms. Keck is her high school's class valedictorian. (J. Michael Short for The New York Times)(pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (84%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (84%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAREDO, TX, USA (84%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); RICE UNIVERSITY (59%); RICE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (54%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); RICE UNIVERSITY (59%); RICE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (54%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (84%); TEXAS, USA (84%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LAREDO, TX, USA (84%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS; FINANCES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (79%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (79%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); 

PERSON: BRONNER, ETHAN MORTON SCHAPIRO (78%); PATRICIA CIGARROA KECK (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



545 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 4; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1491 words

HEADLINE: AUTO RACING;
For Stock Car World's Reigning Hero, The Villain Treatment

BYLINE: By TARIK EL-BASHIR 

 BODY:
The title of top driver in the rough-edged world of stock car racing has always carried with it an additional designation: target.
Win too often and there will be as many fans hating you as loving you. There will be drivers who will not hesitate to run you into a wall and others who might even cheat to keep you from winning a race. 
Over the years, in a sport where loyalty to individual drivers possesses a certain cult quality, Dale Earnhardt has played the role of champion and villain, as have Bill Elliott and Darrell Waltrip.
Jeff Gordon, who is the pole-sitter for the Pocono 500 today, is the latest driver to live out this weird dual existence -- the best and the booed.
Gordon's accomplishments on the track -- two Nascar championships in the last three years, 32 career triumphs -- are unmatched. His earnings are unrivaled. And so his detractors are legion. Not surprisingly, then, his misfortunes also now tend to be colored by intrigue.
Two weeks ago, Gordon was leading a race in Richmond when he was crashed into from behind and was unable to finish the race, much to the delight of the fans who stood and cheered wildly as Gordon's smoking car skidded to a stop. A week ago, he raced to a nearly insurmountable lead at the Michigan Speedway when a driver tossed something out his window and onto the track, forcing a caution and costing Gordon his lead and, ultimately, the race.
Is it a coincidence? Maybe. Is it the result of a design driven by dislike or jealousy? Maybe.
"Sometimes they just like to see me go backwards," Gordon said of his rivals.
About the incident last week in Michigan -- Nascar began an investigation of possible intentional foul play -- Gordon said, "It does make you wonder."
Indeed, it is not unreasonable to wonder if anyone has ever felt the sting of being a hated virtuoso more acutely than Gordon. In a sport that began as recreation for moonshiners running liquor across the South, Gordon stands out as unusual.
Gordon's resume is not standard issue. He is a middle-class kid from California who moved to Indiana as a teen-ager. He is 26 years old and never really had to pay the dues that other drivers did (Earnhardt didn't start driving on the Nascar circuit until he was 28). He is glib and does not speak with an accent, whereas many of the drivers have a Southern drawl. He has the face and personality of a Boy Scout, rather than a roughneck.
And perhaps most important, Gordon has ascended to the top of the racing world just as the sport has begun to expand its reach and reap greater economic reward -- finding popularity among a wider, wealthier population, acquiring an appeal as a marketing engine for nontraditional sponsors and paying its champions millions instead of thousands.
Gordon is the face of that expanding Nascar universe. With a wife who pins scripture verses to his dashboard, Gordon is the sport's singular talent and greatest marketing vehicle. Last year he made $6.5 million in endorsements, promoting, among other things, milk and toothpaste.
"Right now I'm still young and new to the sport," said Gordon, who, with a victory today, could reclaim the lead from Jeremy Mayfield in the Winston Cup point standings. "I've done things a little different than a lot of other guys coming up."
Gordon began racing on Go-Kart tracks in Vallejo, Calif., when he was 5 years old. He immediately showed exceptional ability and an intense drive to win. When he was 13, Gordon's stepfather, John Bickford, an auto-parts manufacturer, moved the family to Indiana, where Gordon had the chance to race professionally as a teen-ager.
After years of dominating the Indiana dirt tracks, at the relatively young age of 21, Gordon made the jump to Nascar.
For Gordon, who is credited with an otherworldly kind of aggressive precision as a driver, the timing of his arrival was perfect. He entered Nascar as it was beginning to establish itself as a mainstream sport. At the time, Nascar was expanding its schedule and its national television deal with major and cable networks was relatively new. Also, several new race tracks were being built.
Attendance at Nascar events leaped 60 percent from 1990 to 1995, and its purses now can exceed $5 million for a single race. Nascar's marketing staff, too, has got much savvier about selling the sport, a development that has led to the establishment of theme restaurants and merchandising outlets in malls across the country.
Gordon, riding the front of the sport's new wave, won eight races in 1995, his second full year, and 10 more in 1996.
Last year, he became only the second driver to win the $1 million bonus awarded to any racer who wins three of Nascar's most prestigious events.
"Jeff has gotten to where he is really fast," Bill France, the president of Nascar, said. "Some of the fans have a problem with the new kid on the block beating their heroes."
In defense of their heroes, Mr. Gordon's army of detractors has mounted an array of assaults: anti-Jeff Gordon T-shirts and signs that carry similar messages. Internet home pages such as Nascar Fans Against Jeff Gordon (there were 10 such home pages at last count) carry caricatures and musings that run from the profane to the absurd to the silly.
While Gordon has his own sizable following -- he boasts a fan club of more than 20,000 members -- there seem to be many more fans who find satisfaction in rooting against him. Like the drivers, they, too, are frustrated by Gordon's weekly dominance. And when he was passed last week in Michigan, the fans roared as loudly as the fans at Richmond after his wreck there.
"We don't like him because he wins every week," said Steve Wilson, a fan from Detroit who was at last week's race in Michigan. "Because he is a fake."
"He is a pretty boy and he whines too much," said Chris McCombe, another fan. "I'm an Earnhardt fan because he is real."
In the 1970's, Waltrip was a brash young driver who openly challenged anyone to beat him. In the 1980's and early 1990's, it was Earnhardt and Elliott's quick rise to prominence that led to resentment. But however much people disliked their steady success, the drivers were always considered authentic members of racing's rowdy fraternity. And no one then was making the kind of money Gordon is now: he has earned roughly $15 million in purses in his career, slightly more than $1 million this year alone.
"Nobody likes a winner," said the veteran driver Rick Mast, who first met Gordon when they were competing on the Busch Grand National Series in the early 1990's. "If you win a lot, it's the thing to do. Boo the winner. It's happened to guys before."
"Honestly, there's just nothing wrong with the guy," Mast added. "I mean, I'm like everybody else. I'm sort of jealous. He has had so much success at a young age. You get what you're dealt in life. You can't change that."
Gordon said the boos are part of the high price of success. As, too, are the tactics of the other drivers. Gordon, who stops short of accusing other drivers of willfully trying to harm him or his chances, does note that other drivers, even when it might be to their advantage, almost never join him in the draft.
"Nobody is going to help the guy who has the best shot at winning," Gordon said. "They are going to everything they can to make sure they keep him from winning."
Predictably, Gordon's quick rise to the top of the sport has provoked a regular swirl of rumors around the garages, from the outrageous to the comic: his tires are pressure-coated with a microscopically ground titanium dust; his car uses rocket fuel; he and Nascar officials have conspired to script how the racing season would unfold, with Gordon winning his third championship in dramatic fashion in the fall.
Gordon said there is no credence to the rumors. But he can sort of understand the ones about his car. For one thing, it is almost always the fastest. Another is that his team was caught with illegal hubs a few years ago.
"The team talks about it and we laugh about it," Gordon said of the rumors. "You learn not to pay attention to it. You have to. If I let everything about me get to me, I'd probably be in a nut house."
If people don't like him because of his success, Gordon said, he can live with that. If they don't like him because of who he is, well, he will find a way to live with that, too.
"If I was phony, then I would be out here in my Wranglers saying how much I love fishing and deer hunting," he said. "I'm just trying to be myself. And because of it, some fans out there are not supportive of me. I'm saying: 'Hey, fans, you've got a choice. If you like what I stand for and the things that I do, then support me. If you don't, I understand.' I know I'm not going to get every fan out there in the stands to follow me."
For most of the last three years, Gordon has had the sport's other drivers following him -- often not even within striking distance.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two Nascar titles in three years and 32 triumphs have Jeff Gordon watching his back. (Craig Jones/Allsport); Opponents have been rough on Jeff Gordon: he was rammed from behind in a race in Richmond. (Associated Press)(pg. 1); Jeff Gordon's detractors have a Web site to vent their antipathy. (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (86%); INDIANA, USA (70%); CALIFORNIA, USA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (86%); MICHIGAN, USA (86%); INDIANA, USA (70%); CALIFORNIA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE RACING; POCONO 500 (AUTO RACE); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION AUTO RACING (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); NASCAR RACING (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: EL-BASHIR, TARIK; GORDON, JEFF JEFF GORDON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



546 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-12
 
Bomb Inquiry Collapses After Dispute With Saudis
The United States investigation of a 1996 terrorist bombing that killed 19 American airmen in Saudi Arabia has collapsed over disagreements with the Saudis, and Administration officials say they may never be able to solve the case. 1
 
No Trade Accord With China
China is not ready to make the economic changes needed to join the World Trade Organization, the top American trade negotiator said, damping any hope of a breakthrough during President Clinton's visit there this week. 1 

A Limited Pledge From Japan
Japan pledged before a meeting of the Group of Seven industrialized nations that it would revive its economy and repair its banking system, but it fell short on specifics. 10
 
French Decision Enrages Turks
The French National Assembly adopted a resolution that "recognizes the Armenian genocide of 1915," and provoked a storm of protest in Turkey that threatens to disrupt their relations. 4
 
The Ambiguous Role of Neutrals
A State Department report on the Swiss gold affair highlights how all major neutral countries stretched the definition of neutrality during World War II to survive and prosper as the old rules of war were thrown to the wind. 11
 
Israel Won't Tip Nuclear Hand
The nuclear tests by India and Pakistan have left Israel alone in the world as a country that is widely believed to have nuclear weapons but which has not acknowledged it. And for now, Israel is apparently happy to leave it that way. 6
 
NATIONAL 14-24
 
College Aid Is Changing, Sharpening Competition
Colleges are spending more on scholarships to attract top students and, as a result, they have less to spend on many needy applicants, admissions officers and administrators say. The once orderly world of financial aid, where colleges avoided bidding against each other and standards of need were well established, is unraveling, replaced by a more competitive environment. 1
 
The Case of Bennett v. Bennett
The close but awfully complicated relationship between two prominent men, William and Robert Bennett, brothers who sometimes seem to agree on little more than the appeal of a good steak, is a matter of intense interest in Washington. 1
 
Women in Law Enforcement
On Pittsburgh's police force of 1,100 officers, 25 percent are women, the highest percentage of any law-enforcement agency in the United States. But have women really made a difference? 14
 
It's All About Education
Around the nation, candidates for state and local office this year are talking far more about education than any other theme. Nowhere is that better demonstrated than in New Mexico's First Congressional District, where a race sometimes resembles a contest for a seat on the school board more than an election to the United States Congress. 14
 
Investigations Called Off
Under pressure from the Clinton Administration and mayors around the country, Federal lawmakers have reversed their decision to have the Housing Department's chief investigator examine housing programs in three cities led by black mayors. 22
 
NEW YORK 25-33
 
New York at 100
One hundred years after what was most likely an ordinary day in the newly-consolidated city, New York is marking its birthday this weekend with scores of events across town. Unlike the big bashes of past years -- the Bicentennial with its flotilla of elegant tall ships or the Statue of Liberty's century celebration with its dazzling and deafening blast of fireworks in the harbor -- this birthday has been low-key and spread out across the city. 1
 
Struggling Chinese Opera Stars
A growing diaspora of opera performers have come to the United States from China, often initially to perform, then to stay. But unlike many artists from Western countries whose celebrity follows them here, the performers from China find themselves plunged into the austere world of new Chinese immigrants, a world of menial jobs, Spartan housing and little contact beyond the immigrant community. For many Chinese, the sight of opera stars like Shi Jiehua shelving videotapes is akin to the notion of Pavarotti scrubbing pots at a pasta joint in Little Italy. 25
 
OBITUARIES 34-35
 
Cong. Vote 32
 
Weather 33

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SAUDI ARABIA (95%); TURKEY (92%); FRANCE (79%); INDIA (79%); ARMENIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: ALL ABOUT SPORTS (51%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); SAUDI ARABIA (95%); TURKEY (92%); FRANCE (79%); INDIA (79%); ARMENIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (86%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); TERRORISM (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); WOMEN (76%); WORLD WAR II (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (69%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (69%); GENOCIDE (68%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (57%); 

PERSON: ROBERT BENNETT (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



547 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: In Asia Crisis, Restoring Yen Is Only a Band-Aid

 BODY:

To the Editor:
The United States' decision to join Japan in buying yen to stop its fall (front page, June 18) raises questions that underscore the weakness of Washington's understanding of the Asian debt crisis. 
 The banks, not the currency, are at the heart of the problem. Poor lending practices in Japan produced a situation that has put most Asian companies on unsound financial footing. Too much exporting and not enough importing created a surplus of money that the Japanese have lent based on unrealistic growth and value projections.
Change in import practices and writing off loans is what needs to be done to correct the financial problems in Japan and the rest of Asia.
A stronger yen will not increase Japanese imports or make Indonesian, Korean or Thai debt disappear.
 
DONALD B. GIMBEL
New York, June 18, 1998
 
The writer is president of a global asset management company.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (93%); INDONESIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (93%); INDONESIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING JAPANESE YEN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); WRITERS (88%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (87%); CORPORATE DEBT (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (87%); DEBT CRISIS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: GIMBEL, DONALD M

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



548 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: In Asia Crisis, Restoring Yen Is Only a Band-Aid

 BODY:

To the Editor:
While I agree with you (editorial, June 15) that Japan's bank bailout plan needs to be started without further delay, I disagree that Japan's central bank has done all it can in using monetary policy to solve Japan's economic crisis. 
 Even though interest rates in Japan are below 1 percent, the real cost of credit can be pushed negative by price inflation.
Japan's central bank must act now to ease monetary policy so that consumer prices, which have been unchanged over the past year, begin to rise. Money growth in Japan decelerated sharply from about 15 percent in 1996 to about 8 percent recently.
Reversing this shift and causing some inflation along the way would help spur Japan's economy by driving the cost of credit negative. And inflation that spills over into real estate values would help turn marginally bad real estate loans into profitable ones, aiding the rescue of the banking sector.
 
ROBERT G. MURPHY
Chestnut Hill, Mass., June 16, 1998
 
The writer is an associate professor of economics at Boston College.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CHESTNUT HILL HEALTHCARE (55%); BOSTON COLLEGE (55%); BOSTON COLLEGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (55%); BOSTON COLLEGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (50%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%); BOSTON, MA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); REAL ESTATE (87%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); TRENDS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); 

PERSON: MURPHY, ROBERT G (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



549 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 194 words

HEADLINE: In Asia Crisis, Restoring Yen Is Only a Band-Aid

 BODY:

To the Editor:
As the Asian financial situation worsens (front page, June 17), suggestions like those in Thomas L. Friedman's June 13 column defending the International Monetary Fund exaggerate the good the fund can do at its best and minimize the damage it does at its worst. The Asian crisis that began as a snowflake in Thailand a year ago snowballed into a threat to the world economy because of I.M.F. policy blunders of the kind that have characterized its economic approach for the last 25 years. 
 The amount of capital available to the monetary fund is tiny compared with the size of the problems in Asia it has created by browbeating the region's governments into raising taxes and devaluing currencies.
When a currency is attacked by speculators, it is because they are betting on a devaluation. The worst response of a government is to raise taxes, which reduces the demand for the currency and thus makes it harder to defend.
The I.M.F. applies the same formula, never learning from its experience, because its analytical framework is etched in stone.
 
JUDE WANNISKI
Morristown, N.J., June 17, 1998
 
The writer is an economist.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: ASIA (94%); THAILAND (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; ASIA (94%); THAILAND (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DEVALUATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CURRENCIES (73%); WRITERS (73%); TAX INCREASES (68%); 

PERSON: WANNISKI, JUDE; FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



550 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: In Asia Crisis, Restoring Yen Is Only a Band-Aid

 BODY:

To the Editor:
A June 15 front-page article rightly points out the difficulties of eliminating sweatshops when Asian workers are more desperate for jobs than ever. However, the reported assertion by economists that the only way to eliminate sweatshops is to generate economic growth leaves out an essential ingredient in the equation: democracy. 
 It was during the heyday of economic growth in Indonesia that sweatshops proliferated. The problem is that workers did not have the ability to stand up for their rights. There was only one Government-controlled labor union, the military was called in to put down strikes, and workers who tried to organize were fired, jailed or murdered.
With the overthrow of President Suharto, Indonesian workers are starting to win back some of their rights. What remains to be seen is whether American companies, fearing the winds of democracy, will cut and run to more "stable" regimes like China.
 
MEDEA BENJAMIN
Co-director, Global Exchange
San Francisco, June 16, 1998

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Karen Caldicott)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: GLOBAL EXCHANGE (ORGN) GLOBAL EXCHANGE (83%); GLOBAL EXCHANGE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: GLOBAL EXCHANGE (ORGN) GLOBAL EXCHANGE (83%); GLOBAL EXCHANGE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; INDONESIA; INDONESIA (94%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SWEATSHOPS EMERGING MARKETS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SWEATSHOPS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLITICS (67%); 

PERSON: BENJAMIN, MEDEA; SUHARTO (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



551 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: In Asia Crisis, Restoring Yen Is Only a Band-Aid

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your description of the devastating impact of the Asian economic crisis on workers is all too accurate (front page, June 15). 
 In March I interviewed workers in Indonesia as part of a fact-finding delegation visiting footwear subcontractors doing business with American companies like Nike. The major concerns were low wages and fear of dismissal. One footwear worker said: "The high price of goods in our country has made it very difficult. Wages have not increased. We are trying to figure out how to make it."
Company codes of conduct should be put in place to make sure that sweatshop conditions are eradicated irrespective of the economic context at a given moment. Nike has taken important steps to monitor its labor standards, but more remains to be done to protect workers' rights and to address the estimated 60 percent decrease in the purchasing power of workers' wages in Indonesia.
 
(Rev.) DAVID M. SCHILLING
New York, June 18, 1998
 
The writer is director, global corporate accountability program, Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (84%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (84%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (84%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (84%); 

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (93%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%); 

COMPANY: INTERFAITH CENTER ON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY NIKE INC (84%); INTERFAITH CENTER ON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERFAITH CENTER ON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY INTERFAITH CENTER ON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; INDONESIA (93%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; SWEATSHOPS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SWEATSHOPS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ETHICS (86%); RELIGION (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: SCHILLING, DAVID M (REV)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



552 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: Lott's Comments Highlight Divisions of G.O.P.

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Lott Says Homosexuality Is a Sin and Compares It to Alcoholism" (news article, June 16): You report that Trent Lott, the Senate majority leader, describes Mississippi in the 1950's and 1960's as a "good time for America." I can only speculate as to what Mr. Lott had in mind when he made this comment. 
 Was he thinking of the students who were killed during rioting that ensued when the first black student tried to attend the University of Mississippi? Or perhaps he was thinking about the assassination of Medgar Evers in 1963? Did he consider the murders of the civil rights workers Andrew Goodman, Michael Schwerner and James Cheney, the lynching of Mack Charles Parker in 1959, or the economic reprisals against blacks who tried to exercise their right to vote?
Perhaps when Mr. Lott made this remark, he was thinking only of himself -- equating what is good for people just like him with what is good for the country.
 
ANN LIPTON
Washington, June 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI; UNITED STATES (90%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); CIVIL RIGHTS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RIOTS (55%); 

PERSON: LOTT, TRENT (SEN); LIPTON, ANN TRENT LOTT (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



553 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: The World;
In the Land of a Billion, a Fitting Presidential Retinue

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THIS is no ordinary circus.
 The horde accompanying President Clinton to China this week will number more than 1,000 people and includes a blue goose, a Presidential seal, and a pair of road runners. 

 The Presidential entourage and its paraphernalia fill four passenger planes and several large C-141 military transports. The White House is taking 60 tons of communications gear, as many as 10 armored limousines and enough bottled water so that the President and First Lady won't have to open a tap to bathe in the luxurious Chinese guest houses and five-star hotels where they will be staying on their nine-day trip.
 The swarm includes six members of Congress, five Cabinet officers with their own retinues, a chief of staff and a deputy chief of staff, a national security adviser and a deputy national security adviser, a press secretary and a deputy press secretary. Five stenographers. Two two-member White House television crews. A valet for the President and a hairdresser for Hillary Rodham Clinton. The President's private secretary and the White House staff secretary. Speech writers and rewriters; doctors and lawyers, 375 reporters and photographers. Snipers, commandos and bomb-sniffing dogs. And countless lords a-leapin'.
 
No Furniture, Please
 
 "We're moving the White House to China," one senior White House advance agent said.
 Well, almost.
 "Rumors that he is bringing all his own furniture from the United States aren't true at all," said Zhang Tianping, the public relations manager at the Diaoyutai State Guest House, where President Clinton will stay in Beijing, according to Agence France-Presse.
 But Mr. Clinton is bringing his bulletproof lectern, known as the blue goose, and the closely guarded carved Presidential seal that adorns it. The White House is flying in at least two road runners, the sinister-looking black secure communications vans that accompany a Presidential motorcade. And, as always, Mr. Clinton will be tailed by Kris Engskov, his personal aide and briefcase carrier.
 All this for a summit meeting in Beijing and postcard visits to four other cities that even the White House says are expected to yield few concrete results.
 Chinese officials and American diplomats in China are appalled and amused. One bewildered senior American in Beijing told a visitor that he was told to expect 1,200 people when Mr. Clinton arrives next Thursday. That may not be far off. White House advance people have rented 350 cars in Shanghai alone.
 Even by comparison to China trips by previous Presidents, the size of the royal court is astonishing.
 When Richard Nixon made his historic journey to Beijing in February 1972, he was accompanied by 300 people. The official party numbered 34, and only 87 members of the press were allowed to cover the visit. The White House and the American media wanted to send at least twice as many people, while the Chinese demanded a much smaller number. Weeks of bargaining resulted in 300 eventually making the trip.
 "By today's standards, it was a modest group, but the Chinese were shocked by the huge horde of people coming, both White House staff and the numbers of press we requested," said Winston Lord, who was then an aide to Mr. Nixon's national security adviser, Henry A. Kissinger, and later was ambassador to China.
 
Less News, More Newsmen
 
 The shock to the Chinese had worn off a bit when Gerald Ford visited Beijing in December 1975. Records from the Ford library indicate that the contingent had grown to about 450 people, including 170 American journalists. The trip was less newsworthy than Mr. Nixon's, but in those years, for most American news organizations, it was a rare opportunity to get into China at all.
 By the time of Ronald Reagan's visit to Beijing, Xian and Shanghai in April 1984, the traveling party had grown to nearly 600 people, including a huge increase in the Hollywood stage managers brought into the White House to assure photogenic coverage of the Gipper. The press corps had grown to 260.
 President Bush's 40-hour visit to Beijing in February 1989 was an anomaly, a hastily arranged trip essentially tacked onto his journey to Japan for the funeral of Emperor Hirohito. Records from the Bush library indicate the traveling party was about 100 people smaller than Mr. Reagan's entourage.
 John Podesta, the White House deputy chief of staff coordinating the Clinton visit, said he has had to say no to scores of officials who wanted to make the passage, and that a decision was made early on not to invite business executives. Mr. Clinton is under fire for accepting campaign contributions funneled through a Chinese military official and for approving the sale of a satellite by a company under investigation for leaking sensitive technology to Beijing. Thus it was an easy call to keep C.E.O.'s off Air Force One. But even without a large contingent of special pleaders, the list of travelers just kept growing, Mr. Podesta said.
 Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright will fly in with the President. Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin is going, as are Charlene Barshefsky, the United States Trade Representative; Commerce Secretary William M. Daley, and Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman.
 Counting deputies, aides and support people, the official party numbers 100, Mr. Podesta said, and "another 500-600 will float in and out around this trip."
 "We've never had a trip quite this large," he said.
 The White House said it could not provide an exact count because many officials and support people are traveling separately and meeting the President in China.
 White House officials also say it is impossible to calculate in advance the overall cost of the trip because the expenses are paid by numerous Government agencies and because many of the the bills arrive for months after the trip has ended. But for a sense of scale, news organizations have been advised that each accredited reporter can expect to pay $15,000.
 The Secret Service, citing security reasons, will provide no figures on the numbers of agents assigned to the trip. But their numbers include not only the plainclothes agents who stay close to the President, but also sharpshooters and counter-assault squads, officers to secure public sites and operate metal detectors and technicians to run a secure communications network.
 But why so many others? The usual Clinton trip, after all, involves a retinue of 500 or 600.
 Michael D. McCurry, the White House spokesman, said the size of this court reflects the importance of the relationship with China, as well as a desire by senior Government officers to be present at a historic event. He attributed the growth in the size of the press contingent to the demands of 24-hour-a-day news coverage.
 He also explained why no one will provide firm figures on the size of the entourage. "It's hard to get people to talk about any of this stuff because it always seems so extravagant," Mr. McCurry said, "especially when you see other leaders with one or two cars in their motorcades. On the other hand, they're not leading the United States of America."

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Richard M. Nixon exchanges toasts with Premier Zhou Enlai at a farewell dinner. (Associated Press); President Gerald R. Ford and the Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping. (U.P.I); President Ronald Reagan with President Li Xiannian and Premier Zhao Ziyang. (Associated Press); President Bush with Deng Xiaoping in 1989. (Associated Press)
 
Charts: "Mr. Clinton Goes to Beiging"
When President Clinton visits China next week, he will travel like a medieval king accompanied by his court. Here is an estimated breakdown of his retinue of more than 1,000 people.
 
SENIOR DELEGATION (30)
Core party includes President and Cabinet officers. Official delegation made up of these 30 and the 70 senior aides and advisors.
President Clinton, Hillary and Chelsea Clinton
Secretaries of State, Commerce, Treasury, Agriculture; U.S. Trade Representative
Six Members of Congress
National security adviser, deputy Chief of Staff, deputy Press secretary, deputy
Political aides, economic advisers
 
70 SENIOR AIDES AND ADVISERS
Senior staff from the White House and cabinet deputies.
 
150 SUPPORT STAFF
Includes White House press aides, travel aides, advance staff, translators, secretaries, speechwriters, lower-level aides from all agencies.
 
150 MILITARY
Includes communications support, cable, transportation, baggage personnel and drivers.
 
150 SECURITY PERSONNEL
Estimated 100-200 agents from the Secret Service and other departments.
 
200 NEWS MEDIA PERSONNEL
An additional 175 have been accredited, but will make their own way to China rather than travel with the official party.
 
ARMORED LIMOUSINES FOR OFFICIAL DELEGATION
About 10 limousiness will accompany the official delegation. Security will also fly in several Chevrolet Suburban trucks and the entire party will rent 350 cars in Shanghai.
 
"The Four Previous Visits'
 
NIXON
DATES: Feb. 21-28, 1972.
ITINERARY: Shangahi, Beijing, Hangzhou.
RETINUE: 300 total, including 34 in official delegation and 87 members of news media.
 
FORD
DATES: Dec. 1-5, 1975.
ITINERARY: Beijing
RETINUE: 450 total, including 37 in official delegation and 170 members of news media.
 
REAGAN
DATES: April 26-May 1, 1984
ITINERARY: Beijing, Xian, Shanghai
RETINUE: 600 total, including 100 in official delegation and 260 members of news media.
 
BUSH
DATES: Feb. 5-27, 1989.
ITINERARY: Beijing
RETIN:UE About 500 total, including 34 in official delegation and 200 members of news media.
 
"Attitudes Toward China"
In general, Americans do not have strong feelings for or against China, and their opinion is split on the way President Clinton is handling relations with the Communist giant, according to a new poll. But they believe trade with China is good for the American economy and approve of the President's scheduled visit.
 
Based on a nationwide New York Times/CBS News poll conducted by June 7 to 9 by telephone with 1,126 adults.
 
In general, what are your feelings toward China?
FAVORABLE: 12%
UNFAVORABLE: 23%
NO ANSWER: 3%
NEUTRAL: 61%
 
Do you approve of the way President Clinton is handling relations with China? APPROVE: 35%
DISAPPROVE: 37%
NO ANSWER: 28%
 
On balance, do you think trade with China is good for the United States economy?
BAD: 23%
NO EFFECT: 14%
NO ANSWER: 3%, 13%
GOOD: 50%
 
Do you think President Clinton should or should not go to China at this time? SHOULD NOT: 32%
NO ANSWER: 9%
SHOULD: 59%
 
(Peter C. T. Elsworth/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (97%); EAST CHINA (93%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (58%); SHAANXI, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (53%); WHITE HOUSE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (97%); EAST CHINA (93%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (58%); SHAANXI, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (94%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NEWS REPORTING (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); BOTTLED WATER (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (68%); WRITERS (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (57%); DOGS (51%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1998



554 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 21, 1998

SECTION: Section 15; Page 25; Column 1; Women's Health 

LENGTH: 1755 words

HEADLINE: With Alternative Medicine, Profits Are Big, Rules Are Few

BYLINE: By KAREN STABINER; Karen Stabiner, a Los Angeles-based writer, is the author of "To Dance With the Devil: The New War on Breast Cancer."

 BODY:
EVERY day Marcie Rothman, who is 51, takes three Body Wise Female Advantage nutritional capsules -- an arsenal of 22 ingredients marketed as the natural answer to menopause.
Soy protein is a selective estrogen-response modifier meant to stabilize a woman's suddenly dwindling supply of estrogen; along with black cohosh root, it is now a popular way to fight hot flashes. Mexican yam is a trendy natural source of progesterone, and passionflower, valerian root and kava are supposed to ameliorate mood swings. 
 The capsules also contain evening primrose oil and flax seed for essential fatty acids, as well as gotu kola and alphaketoglutaric acid, both of which are supposed to keep the brain sharp. Add vitamin pills, a calcium supplement to fight osteoporosis, exercise, a no-smoking policy and a low-fat diet, and Ms. Rothman figures that she has done everything she needs to do.
In fact, Ms. Rothman is helping to support a $4 billion alternative-remedy industry by dosing herself with nontraditional treatments. Twenty years ago she would have been at the fringe of consumer society. Today, she is a foot soldier in a revolution that includes members of the medical establishment, like Dr. Susan M. Love, who co-wrote "Dr. Susan Love's Hormone Dilemma," and Dr. David Heber, the director of the Center for Human Nutrition at the University of California, Los Angeles.
Women, who buy the majority of medicines and medicinal treatments, have a dizzying array of products at their disposal, from vitamin supplements like the Body Wise line, with its scientific-sounding claims, to pulverized Chinese herbs.
WHAT these products do not have yet is quantifiable proof either of quality or of effectiveness. No regulatory agency enforces quality control of these supplements, and there are not nearly enough scientific data to confirm that their ingredients do what they profess.
"There is a resurgence of a romantic idea about nature," said Dr. Richard Friedman, the director of psychopharmacology at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. "Like all ideology, it's dangerous. The bottom line should be, if it works and it's safe and effective, what does it matter where it came from? Molecules are molecules."
Before 1994, the Government categorized dietary supplements as food additives. Companies had to prove their products' safety to the Food and Drug Administration, which could yank an item off the shelf. But the 1994 Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act put the burden of proof on the F.D.A., which lacks the resources to police a growing industry. Even proponents of these treatments worry that women will end up with poor-quality products.
"My practical advice for right now is, go with one of the big herbal companies," said Dr. Heber. "Big companies have big insurance liabilities."
Dr. Friedman added, "It's buyer beware. You might get a treatment, a potentially toxic substance or a placebo. It's Russian roulette."
Ms. Rothman, a former magazine researcher who now writes about food and nutrition, spent two years using her professional skills to select what she considered a quality line of supplements manufactured in a plant that adheres to F.D.A. pharmaceutical standards.
Not every product is as reassuring. A walk down an aisle in a large Los Angeles natural-foods store is truly a magical mystery tour stocked with tall canisters of soy-protein powder from four competing manufacturers; a line of herbal solutions promising that the herbs are suspended in organic alcohol, and seven kinds of ginseng.
The menopause preparations take up two shelves: supplements comprising different ingredients and several pots of wild-yam cream, none that list the amount of wild yam in the preparation. There are remedies in the food aisles, primarily tofu meals that include barbecue-flavored snacks. And at the check-out counter, 60-pill packs of Remifemin offer "nutritional support for women experiencing menopause." These same women can then repair to a nearby coffee boutique for a soyccino.
The standard alternative approach to dealing with the long-term effects of menopause -- bone weakness, cardiovascular problems and skin dryness -- depends on natural sources of depleted hormones, along with specific remedies for short-term discomforts like hot flashes. It usually involves a progesterone cream, of which Progest is the oldest and most popular brand, and a phyto- or plant-derived estrogen. Soy-protein powder is the phyto-estrogen of the moment. Women usually mix it into fruit juice or milk twice a day, though many who take it look forward to the day when an equivalent batch of isoflavones are packed into a flavorless capsule.
Then there are mavericks like Dr. Uzzi Reiss, a Beverly Hills gynecologist and anti-aging specialist who says he has a "booked practice, early morning to late at night" concocting custom hormone cocktails for his patients. If the herbalists and nutritionists believe that Premarin is unnecessary, Dr. Reiss and his colleagues believe it is outmoded.
Menopause is the wild frontier for alternative entrepreneurs, with 1.3 million women very likely to be entering menopause this year. But even established companies, like Transitions for Women, which sells Progest cream and is based in Oregon, depend more on patient testimonials than on research.
Ms. Rothman's proof of efficacy is simple but also profound: she began taking supplements five years ago, when her stress level spiraled because of her parents' illnesses and a fractured romance. "I haven't had as much as a sore throat since," she said. Nor any menopausal symptoms.
The medical community prefers a broader sampling and has finally acknowledged public interest by beginning to research popular products.
Dr. Love includes soy-rich foods and herbs in her daily regimen. While "we need more randomized, controlled double-blind studies," she said, referring to the "gold standard" in which half the subjects receive an alternate remedy and half a placebo, she points out that women are frequently prescribed drugs for which such studies were not conducted.
"The requirement for gold-standard studies has to be seen in perspective," she said. Meanwhile, she keeps an eye on the emerging data. She had been taking 25 grams of soy powder every day, for example, until a recent double-blind study suggested 40 grams was optimal. "I bumped it up to 40," she said, "and the hot flashes disappeared."
Dr. Heber mixes four scoops, about 30 grams, of soy protein in a drink twice a day because studies on animals suggest there is a cancer-fighting, or antioxidant effect.
But there is much trial and error in dosage and effectiveness; for all the popularity of topical progesterone preparations, for example, the F.D.A. has yet to limit the progesterone content. What works is often a matter of experimentation and individual perception.
"The most hopeful sign," Dr. Friedman said, "is that the National Institute of Medicine has its agency of alternative health, and they're doing studies now. You have to ask: If I'm going to put this in my body, is it safe? What does it mean if a lot of menopausal women say they're feeling better on something? Did it work, or did they feel better because of the placebo effect?"
Women are generally disinclined to wait for official answers and prefer to apply their networking skills in an informal menopause information exchange. There are several reasons. This generation's distrust of authority has been heightened by managed care -- having promised everything, medicine has delivered far less. "Skepticism is the inheritance doctors have gotten over the last century," Dr. Friedman said. "The more sophisticated medicine has become, the more the American public expects. That intersects with managed care, which has been a disaster in terms of the public trust."
Expectations were very high, Dr. Friedman added, "but the results were less than people hoped for," so they have become "disillusioned with medicine."
THIS generation also has a global perspective. Thanks to an enhanced ability to travel abroad or on the Internet, women can learn about other cultures and treatments. "Baby boomers are a major revolution, 77 million of us thinking we can change the world and live to 120," Dr. Heber said. "An internationalization of economies means we're getting an influx of information from cultures that like natural remedies. In China, they don't take Premarin."
The irony is that the baby boomers' curiosity, combined with their mistrust of the pharmaceutical-medical establishment and the torrent of data, has made the current menopause generation more responsive to promotions for products that are, for the most part, untested and unregulated.
That is not to say pharmaceutical companies ignore profit projections. But drugs, unlike "cosmeceuticals," undergo rigorous clinical trials to win F.D.A. approval.
The danger is that women are doing their own informal clinical trials, and that most doctors cannot keep up with them. "We were all taught in medical school 25 years ago that drugs were good, vitamins were bad and supplements were dangerous," Dr. Heber said. "It's the younger doctors who are usually open to this and will do the research on their own."
Most doctors receive information about new treatments from drug-company representatives toting brochures and samples. These companies are not interested in alternative remedies so far. Since natural remedies cannot be patented, a successful product only guarantees increased competition.
Sharon MacFarland's father, Bruce, began selling Progest cream 20 years ago. Eight years later, Ms. MacFarland began the company's new division, called Transitions for Women. Today, she said, the company sells about 1 million tubes of Progest annually at $30 each through its catalogue and health-food stores. That means more than 83,000 customers are using about a tube a month, enough to attract other companies with competing preparations.
Practitioners who recommend alternative remedies therefore urge women to find what Dr. Love calls a "guide" who knows which companies make the best products and how they are supposed to work.
"You can't just take two of these and three of those," Dr. Love said. "You have to go to a herbalist, a naturopath, a traditional Chinese doctor and have them match the herbs to your needs. You hear what a friend takes, and you try that? Not a good idea. So go to someone who knows what they're doing. That's your only safeguard."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Margaret Riegel)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; WOMEN; VITAMINS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY MENOPAUSE (91%); NUTRITION (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (90%); VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS (90%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (90%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (90%); OILS & FATS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); STEROIDS (77%); HERBAL MEDICINE (77%); DEREGULATION (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (75%); OSTEOPOROSIS (73%); PRODUCT SAFETY (72%); HEALTH CARE (71%); EDUCATION LAW (70%); FOOD ADDITIVES (69%); PHARMACOLOGY (69%); DRUG SAFETY (69%); SMOKING (69%); QUALITY CONTROL (69%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (69%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (68%); SMOKING BANS (54%); 

PERSON: STABINER, KAREN SUSAN LOVE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1998



555 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: Crime and Hollywood

 BODY:

To the Editor:
President Clinton has done what he had restrained himself from doing: offering up Hollywood as a whipping boy for the recent school shootings (news article, June 14). 
 But the contention that Hollywood is to blame holds little water. From 1994 to 1996 juvenile homicide arrests declined by 30 percent. School shootings decreased from 55 in 1992 to 36 last year. Is Mr. Clinton suggesting there has been a third less violence in Hollywood films over the last few years?
The problem with trying to explain a recent increase in juvenile crime or school shootings is that there isn't one. Juvenile crime in just about every category has dropped since 1994, probably because of a better economy and the fact that in 1995 it became a Federal crime for children younger than 18 to possess handguns. Juvenile crime could probably be reduced further by passing stronger Federal gun laws and by keeping schools open until 8 P.M. for recreation and counseling programs.
 
JASON ZIEDENBERG
Washington, June 16, 1998
 
The writer is a researcher at the Justice Policy Institute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; MOTION PICTURES; VIOLENCE; CHILDREN AND YOUTH SHOOTINGS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); JUVENILE CRIME (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (90%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); FIREARMS (88%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (88%); FILM (88%); HOMICIDE (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); GUN CONTROL (66%); 

PERSON: ZIEDENBERG, JASON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1998



556 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: Social Security Gamble

 BODY:

To the Editor:
The proposal by my fellow Democratic Congressmen that would allow the Social Security System to invest in the stock market (news article, June 17) is more capitulation than counteroffensive. This plan is a concession to the hysteria manufactured by Wall Street, which exaggerates Social Security's actuarial imbalance and calls it a crisis. There is no crisis. 
 Social Security can pay 100 percent of benefits until 2032 without any changes -- even assuming slow economic growth and high unemployment. What other private sector initiative can promise the same? What other program is backed by the full faith and credit of the Federal Government? None.
Only Social Security is guaranteed. Privatization schemes trade away Social Security's guarantee for a Wall Street gamble.
 
DENNIS J. KUCINICH
Member of Congress, 10th Dist., Ohio
Washington, June 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: OHIO WASHINGTON (55%); MEMBER OF CONGRESS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEMBER OF CONGRESS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); LEGISLATION (88%); PRIVATIZATION (88%); BONDS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (70%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); 

PERSON: KUCINICH, DENNIS J (REPR) DENNIS KUCINICH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1998



557 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Will Be Putting Bills And 2 Notes on Sale This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week offers today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and sales of two- and five-year notes tomorrow and Wednesday, respectively.
According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 5.02 percent and the rate on the six-month issue was 5.09 percent. In when-issued trading, the two-year note was offered at a price to yield 5.47 percent, and the five-year note at 5.46 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
AMB Property L.P., $350 million of notes in three parts, consisting of 10-year, 20-year and 17-year remarketable notes. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
Cumulus Media Inc., $200 million of debt securities in two parts: $100 million of senior subordinated notes due in 2008 and $100 million of series A cumulative redeemable preferred notes due in 2009, both through Bear, Stearns and Lehman Brothers.
EMC Corp., $250 million of senior notes due in 2008, Baa3/---/---. Salomon Smith Barney.
Equity Inns, four million shares of $25 series A cumulative perpetual preferred, B1/BB-/---. Salomon Smith Barney.
Federal-Mogul, $1 billion of multi-tranche global issue. Chase Securities and Bear, Stearns.
Mariner Capital Trust, two million shares of $10 preferred due in 2028. Ferris, Baker Watts.
Meridian Industrial Trust, three million shares of $25 cumulative perpetual preferred, Baa3/BB+/---. Goldman, Sachs and Prudential Securities.
Mid-America Apartment Communities, 3.2 million shares of $25 cumulative perpetual preferred, Ba3/BB- /---. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
US West Capital Funding, $2 billion of notes in four parts consisting of 4-year, 7-year, 10-year and 30-year notes, A3/A-/---. Merrill Lynch.
Source: MCM Corporatewatch
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
WEDNESDAY
Nevada Capital Imports, $110 million of debt securities. Competitive.
Nevada Municipal Bond Bank, $315 million of debt securities. Competitive.
Prince George's County, Md., $85.6 million of debt securities. Competitive.
University of California, $298.7 million of debt securities. Competitive.
University of California Regents "G," $63.7 million of debt securities. Competitive.
 
THURSDAY
Ohio Highway Capital Import, $200 million of debt securities. Competitive.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Arizona District of Transportation, $170 million of debt securities. Salomon Smith Barney.
California Health Facility Finance Authority, $80 million of debt securities for Enloe Health System. Goldman, Sachs.
Dallas, $141 million of debt securities for sports arena project. Lehman Brothers.
Denver Health Hospital Authority, Denver, $66.4 million of health care revenue bonds. Piper Jaffray.
Escambia County, Fla., $65 million of debt securities for Baptist Hospital. Paine Webber.
Grand Rapids, Mich., Sewer Authority, $55 million of debt securities. Paine Webber.
Indiana Transportation Authority, $125 million of debt securities. Bear, Stearns & Co.
Louisiana Public Facilities Authority, $400 million of debt securities for Franciscan Missionaries of Our Lady health system project. Lehman Brothers.
Massachusetts Health and Education, $140 million of debt securities for Boston Medical Center. Bear, Stearns.
Massachusetts Housing Finance Authority, $50 million of single-family mortgage revenue bonds. Paine Webber.
Massachusetts Water Pollution, $125 million of abatement trust revenue bonds. Goldman, Sachs.
Michigan Department of Transportation, $225 million of debt securities. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
Michigan Municipal Bond Authority, $71 million of revenue notes. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Michigan State Legislature Project, $80 million of debt securities for Capitol outlook. Lehman Brothers.
Mobile, Ala., $55 million of general obligation bonds. Merrill Lynch.
New Jersey Health Care Facility Authority, $160 million of debt securities for Hackensack University Medical Center. Merrill Lynch.
San Diego Community Facility District, $60 million of debt securities. Paine Webber.
Sonymae, $175 million of debt securities. Bear, Stearns.
Utah State Board of Regents, $122 million of debt securities for University of Utah. Lehman Brothers.
Virgin Islands Water and Power Authority, $110 million of electric system revenue and refunding bonds. Salomon Smith Barney.
Virginia Toll Road, $350 million of debt securities. Bear, Stearns.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: CMLS (NASDAQ) (69%); EMC (NYSE) (68%); MAA (NYSE) (65%); MS (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); FDML (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (69%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (68%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (65%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (63%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (63%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (68%); 

CITY: CARSON CITY, NV, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CUMULUS MEDIA INC (69%); EMC CORP (68%); MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES INC (65%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (63%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); FEDERAL-MOGUL CORP (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); MERIDIAN INDUSTRIAL TRUST INC (53%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (68%); CARSON CITY, NV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES DEBT NOTES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (77%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (76%); STOCK REDEMPTIONS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (67%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1998



558 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: After Years Of Being Off Track, VH1 Hits Its Groove Cable;
Channel Pursues Adults and Leaves MTV To Chase After Children

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER 

 BODY:
When John Sykes took over as president of the cable channel VH1 in 1994, he had a theory:
"All the baby boomers, and all those people who started out watching MTV in 1980, did not stop listening to music. They grew up and bought new stereos and put CD players in their cars, and they were spending $100 on a weekend to see the Eagles reunion concert. But nobody on television was serving that audience." 
 That included VH1, which was originally devised to fill that mission but instead had scraped by for more than a decade as what Mr. Sykes called "the bastard stepchild of MTV."
VH1, which is owned by MTV Networks, a unit of Viacom Inc., had established almost no identity with television viewers; its programming was a bizarre mix of oldie videos ("a lot of Julio Iglesias," Mr. Sykes said), dusty sitcom reruns ("WKRP in Cincinnati") and fruit-smashing stand-up comedy acts (endless episodes of "Gallagher").
The channel started in 1985 with the purpose of staving off competition for MTV. That year, Ted Turner had started a competing music channel, so MTV Networks offered VH1 free to cable operators, killing off the threat. But the channel's identity as a separate music network was never firmly established.
In the four years since Mr. Sykes took over, VH1 has found a formula that has significantly increased its ratings and driven up profits. Indeed, VH1 has the highest concentration of advertisers' most desirable viewers, those 18 to 49. As a result, advertisers from American Express to Lexus have added VH1 to their buying plans.
As a sign of VH1's success, an array of musicians, from Mariah Carey to the Rolling Stones, have appeared on the channel in live concerts. And it even did a show called "Bill Clinton, Rock and Roll President," and now claims the nation's First Television Viewer as a regular supporter and fan.
The formula that turned VH1 around was basic: pure music and music-related programs for adults. As Mr. Sykes put it, "What I figured we could do was own music" for adults, "because that was something we could do better than anybody else."
The pure-music format still means videos but with a different edge: newer artists like Jewel, Paula Cole and Sarah McLachlan who are favored more by adults than by teen-agers and innovative formats like "Pop-Up Video," which brought computer-style information bites to the video genre. It also means documentary-style programs on the background of music artists and their work, highlighted by the channel's most popular series, "Behind the Music," which examines the personal stories of recording stars and their albums; "Storyteller," which describes how hit songs came to be written, and "Legends," profiles of recording stars.
The channel also loaded up on concerts and other events, like its annual fashion awards. It attracted its biggest audience ever in April with its "Divas Live" concert featuring six star female performers: Mariah Carey, Celine Dion, Gloria Estefan, Aretha Franklin, Carole King and Shania Twain.
An even better measure of the channel's surging growth is offered by Tom Freston, the chairman of MTV Networks, who sees VH1 as the hottest channel in his company's portfolio. "It is growing faster on a percentage basis than either Nickelodeon or MTV," Mr. Freston said. "It's almost the sky's the limit now for VH1."
Such an assessment is a stark reversal from the channel's prospects only about 18 months ago, when things were so rocky for VH1 that it was being kicked off numerous cable systems to make room for other channels. "They were at a low ebb," said Bill Marchetti, an analyst with Paul Kagan Associates, a firm that analyzes the cable industry. "If they didn't make a lot of right moves right then, they were going to start having a tough time getting renewals from some cable systems."
Indeed, the nation's largest cable operator, Tele-Communications Inc., had already dumped VH1 from more than one million homes to accommodate several channels in which it owned a financial interest, including Fox News, Animal Planet and Home and Garden. Fortunately, Mr. Sykes said, VH1, with its new adult-music format, had managed to build up some loyal fans by then, both in the television audience and in the music industry. "We held a protest in Denver," Mr. Sykes said, "with people like John Mellencamp, Jewel and Don Henley. These artists said, 'We need a place to get our music heard.' "
The outcry from viewers and artists eventually got VH1 back on all the systems that dropped it, and many more besides. In the last three years, the channel has spent $20 million in programming improvements and extended its subscriber base to more than 62 million homes from 49 million. "That was the turning point," Mr. Sykes said. Mr. Freston said if those first moves to drop VH1 from cable systems had not been overturned, "The whole asset value of the channel could have vaporized."
Now that asset value is highly prized by MTV Networks because VH1 has an almost ideal business plan. "It's a niche business," Mr. Sykes said. Ratings are still modest. The prime-time average has more than doubled in the last two years, but that means a rise to only a 0.4 rating from 0.18. (For VH1, each rating point represents 620,000 homes. MTV averages about a 0.7 rating, but in a larger number of homes.)
"But in the cable world," Mr. Sykes said, "with our low overhead, moderate program costs and economies of scale, you can be in a business like music for television viewers. You can superserve that audience and make money."
And VH1 is making money. In fact, Mr. Sykes confidently notes, "We alone are making more in profits than any broadcast network except NBC."
The reason this somewhat startling development can be true is that neither CBS, ABC nor Fox earned much money -- if any -- this year. So the $42.5 million in profit for VH1 for 1998, as estimated by Paul Kagan Associates, looks good by comparison. The results for MTV shows the potential for a cable channel, with the channel making about $250 million during the same period.
But VH1 is looking good by comparison in several areas, including its overall appeal to viewers between 18 and 49, the favorite group of most advertisers. According to Nielsen Media research, VH1 has the highest concentration of those viewers -- about 88 percent of its viewers fall in that range -- in all of cable.
Mr. Sykes sees VH1's growing success as confirmation of his theory about how the generation of music fans who grew up in the 1960's and 70's refused to relinquish their proprietary interest in music.
"Our parents more or less gave up their dominance of the record-buying business when they got into having children and mortgages," Mr. Sykes said. "But for the baby boom generation, there has always been a passionate connection to music."
Mr. Sykes, who began his career as an MTV executive in the 1980's, left in 1986 to take various positions in the music industry. From that perspective he noticed a change going on. "There had always been a perception in the music industry that adults didn't matter," he said. "But I noticed that adults were buying more records than their kids. And they had Visa cards to use, not their allowances."
But the adult audience was not going to watch MTV. In Mr. Freston's words, "They couldn't stand the music on MTV," with its mix of rap, alternative and hard rock. Once VH1 responded to adults' continuing passion for music, Mr. Sykes said, it was on its way. "The adult audience today almost feels elitist toward music," he said. "It feels like it has always had the best music, the music influenced by the war in Vietnam, the music that established trends. And now, probably for the first time in history, we're seeing music cross over from adults to kids."
President Clinton fits the description of a baby boomer with a continuing passion for music, Mr. Sykes said. He has several personal letters from the President attesting to his interest in the channel's programming. (The President was especially taken by a series of specials VH1 did on the 20th anniversary of the death of Elvis Presley, Mr. Sykes said.)
Mr. Clinton also enthusiastically supported the channel's campaign called "Save the Music," which raises money for school music programs, partly through donations of old instruments. Mr. Clinton donated an old saxophone, which went to an inner-city Washington high school.
Having moved in the last three years to what he called "second-tier status" among cable channels, Mr. Sykes said, the next step is "to jump up to the first tier." He defined the second tier as channels like Comedy Central and Lifetime, which have more than 50 million homes and climbing ratings. The top tier, he said, are the dominant channels of cable, like ESPN, CNN and MTV, with 65 to 73 million homes and regular programs with strong support.
"The upside for us is getting to where MTV and Nickelodeon are in the next few years," Mr. Sykes said. "We're at a different point in our lifeline. We've been around since 1985, but for most of those years we were doing nothing. We're sort of where MTV was in the early 1980's. The real upside is creating the kind of brand awareness that MTV and Nick have now."

GRAPHIC: Photos: From its start in 1985 and continuing well into the 1990's, the music cable channel VH1 subsisted on fare like videos by Lionel Ritchie, far left, and reruns of stand-up bits by the comedian Gallagher, left. But since John Sykes became president of VH1 in 1994, the cable channel has found new energy -- and more viewers in the coveted 18-to-49 age range -- by adding programs like those below: "Pop-Up Video," the "Divas Live" concert in April and "Ed Sullivan's Rock 'n' Roll Classics." (Photographs by Associated Press (top left); VH1)(pg. D1); John Sykes, the president of VH1, has focused the cable channel on music and music-related programs for adults, including "Pop-Up Video," which brought computer-style information to the video genre. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. D8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (70%); AXP (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (70%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: MTV NETWORKS; VH1 (CABLE TELEVISION STATION) VIACOM INC (70%); MTV NETWORKS INC (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: MTV NETWORKS; VH1 (CABLE TELEVISION STATION)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; ADVERTISING; MUSIC; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC (89%); FILM (88%); BABY BOOMERS (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (77%); POP & ROCK (77%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (76%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (76%); CABLE INDUSTRY (74%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (65%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (60%); RADIO FORMATS (58%); CD & DVD DRIVES (57%); 

PERSON: CARTER, BILL; SYKES, JOHN BILL CLINTON (58%); MARIAH CAREY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1998



559 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: Scrutinizing Chinese Weapons Deals

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 21

 BODY:
As President Clinton prepares to go to China this week, the central foreign policy drama in Washington is the increasing Congressional furor over the Administration's engagement policy, in particular the sense that Mr. Clinton is damaging national security in his eagerness to promote relations with Beijing.
Congressional leaders, mostly Republican, argue that Mr. Clinton and the executive branch are ignoring a pattern of Chinese exports of dangerous nuclear, chemical and ballistic missile technology. The motive, the critics say, is that the White House wants to avoid imposing the sanctions that the law requires. 
 The Administration is also under new attack for authorizing the export of commercial satellites for launching aboard Chinese rockets, a process that may have provided technical details that China could use to improve the accuracy of its nuclear-tipped missiles.
At the White House there is an equal and opposite frustration with Congress for trying to "micromanage" relations with China. Since the 1989 crackdown on student-led demonstrations in Tiananmen Square, Congress has passed nearly 12 laws and amendments that try to govern how the executive branch has to deal with proliferation. Each measure has different standards of proof and rules of enforcement, and some are so sweeping that billions of dollars of trade are at stake.
Administration officials complain that Congress confuses voting on sanctions legislation with formulating a working policy on nonproliferation and that Congress sets even stricter requirements for Chinese behavior than international agreements do. In essence, the officials complain, Congress does not allow the President to take a broader, more nuanced view of American national interests. They say the laws do not always provide the flexibility for the executive branch to accomplish the real ends of the legislation, less proliferation.
"There are some staffers up on the Hill who think that if we embargoed every country we'd have the world's best nonproliferation policy, whether it impeded anyone or not," said a senior official with nearly a decade of work on those issues.
But a senior Congressional staffer with equal experience said with equal bitterness: "When it comes to implementing sanction laws the Executive traditionally takes the view that ends justify the means. But the problem is that it degrades the credibility and, thus, the deterrent effect of these sanctions if they're not implemented when flagrantly triggered, even if the executive finds some legal loophole."
The intense argument between the executive and legislative branches reflects two approaches for dealing with China that are not, at their core, partisan differences, although the renewed presummit debate is intensely political. Although Republican leaders, including the Senate majority leader, Trent Lott, and Speaker Newt Gingrich, are among Mr. Clinton's most vocal critics on Chinese proliferation, Democratic Senators including John Glenn of Ohio have long shared some of the same concerns.
There is wide agreement that China has significantly improved its record on nuclear, missile, chemical and biological exports since the 1980's, when it advocated nuclear proliferation as a form of anticolonial equity. China gave Pakistan the design for a nuclear weapon and the materials to make it, and it shipped missiles to the Middle East. Prompting China to curtail such exports has been its growing international maturity, combined with pressure and engagement from the United States, including the apt use of sanctions.
"China's behavior is improving, the trend line is up, and there is no longer any consistent pattern of willful flouting of international obligations," a senior Administration official said. "But there are serious questions in the missile and chemical areas, and to the extent the Administration implies there is no problem it doesn't help the cause and it infuriates the Congress."
Asked today on the NBC News program "Meet the Press" about China's proliferation record, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said, "A lot has been done and more needs to be done."
The attention from Republicans is on whether the Chinese Government illegally contributed to the Democratic Party and used advice from American aerospace companies to improve its strategic missiles. But that feeds on the more longstanding and bitter argument over whether China remains a dangerous exporter to Iran and Pakistan and whether its behavior is improving through engagement.
The question remains: is China keeping to its more responsible commitments made since 1992 or is it just better at cheating?
In the broadest sense this is just another chapter in the debate about the wisdom of an engagement policy with China that dates from Presidents Richard M. Nixon, Ronald Reagan and George Bush. Even Mr. Clinton, after criticizing engagement in the 1992 Presidential campaign, embraced it as the best way to influence Chinese behavior in the next century.
One skeptic is Robert Kagan of the Carnegie Endowment, who complains that under Mr. Clinton engagement is uncritical. Any action to constrain Chinese behavior can be rationalized as harmful to the larger goal of drawing China into international relationships that may moderate the Government in Beijing, he said.
"My concern is about an approach that assumes in advance that China will be our friend in the next century instead of saying honestly that we don't know what China is going to be like, so we have to hedge against certain possibilities," Mr. Kagan said. "Russia is our friend, too, but we have seriously hedged against Russia going in a different direction by expanding NATO."
Mr. Kagan said he believed that Chinese access to sensitive American technologies and exports should "not be an inducement for changing behavior, but a reward for changed behavior."
But the argument over China's true record can be answered only with access to highly sensitive and sometimes ambiguous intelligence material. Even that intelligence is debated, to see whether it suffices as the indisputable evidence, or "smoking gun," that senior White House officials say even the Reagan and Bush Administrations required to impose sanctions.
The debates swirl over detailed findings about what might be in certain crates shipped by China to Pakistan in the early 90's and whether they contained missiles or missile parts, as is widely believed but not proven. And if the crates did contain missiles, were they Chinese M-11 missiles or another kind, and with what range?
Similarly, what specific help has China provided Pakistan to build one certain factory in Rawalpindi, and is that factory designed to produce missiles and, if so, what kind and what range, and will they be considered Chinese or Pakistani?
Those questions matter, because the different laws are specific about what requires different sanctions. The only missiles subject to sanctions fall under the Missile Technology Control Regime, which covers those capable of carrying warhead of 500 kilograms, or 1,100 pounds, at least 300 kilometers, 190 miles.
National security is never separate from domestic politics, a senior Congressional staff member said, which is why Presidents from every party prefer not to receive perfect answers.
"If Clinton finds China sanctionable and then waives, he opens himself up to political criticism that he's soft on the Chinese despite a violation and is undermining the intent of the law," the Congressional staff member said. "It's just easier to say we don't know for sure, that the intelligence is ambiguous."
A senior American official deeply engaged in China policy said that no official could ignore a "smoking gun" without legal consequences and that the interagency intelligence process was pure. Missile sanctions affect trade with whole sectors of the Chinese economy, so policymakers have set a high evidentiary threshold.
"If you sanction and you're wrong," the official said, "your credibility really goes out the window."
On dangerous exports of chemicals or equipment that could be used for chemical warfare, however, the laws require a lower threshold of evidence, simply "knowing and material assistance" to a chemical or biological weapons program on the American terrorist list, and narrower sanctions, he said.
Although "a lot of people in the intelligence community take Pakistan as a test of their manhood," another senior Administration official said, "they have a fundamentally different mission, which is threat assessment.
"Do we think Pakistan has M-11 missiles? Yeah, we do. And if we were to go to war with Pakistan tomorrow I'd like our guys to be prepared for M-11's. But that's different from a Presidential finding that we know for sure that they're there. Intel doesn't have to be certain. But we do, according to the law."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: China the Arms Merchant"
China has sharply improved its proliferation behavior since 1992, but serious problems remain.
 
THE IMPROVEMENTS
China has limited dangerous exports to Iran and Pakistan and taken important steps, sometimes pressed by American sanctions.
 
February 1992 -- China promises to abide by the Missile Technology Control Regime governing missiles of medium or longer range.
 
March 1992 -- China agrees to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty.
 
October 1994 -- China joins the Chemical Weapons Convention; pledges to consider the M-11 a controlled missile and not export it.
 
May 1996 -- Under threat of United States sanctions, China halts exports of items for use in nuclear plants, like Pakistan's without international safeguards. China also stops nuclear testing, signs the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty.
 
October 1997 -- China agrees to stop shipments of certain cruise missiles to Iran, stop all nuclear cooperation with Iran, and join the Zangger group of countries regulating dangerous exports.
 
Spring 1998 -- China cooperates with Washington to try to deter India and Pakistan from creating nuclear weapons, as it has cooperated on North Korea.
 
THE PROBLEMS
Intelligence reports continue to suggest that there are Chinese exports and technical assistance to Pakistan and Iran that would violate China's pledges and that could require U.S. sanctions.
 
1992 -- Despite pledges, China is believed to have shipped M-11 missiles or parts to Pakistan.
 
1994-1995 -- U.S. discovers a shipment of ring magnets to Pakistan, useful in enriching uranium, and arguably a violation of the Nonproliferation Treaty.
 
1995 -- China is believed to have helped in building a Rawalpindi factory that might produce medium-range missiles.
 
1997 -- China reportedly offers Iran technical help and parts like missile guidance systems, gyroscopes and special steels for a short-range missile.
 
January 1997 -- China contracts with an Iranian complex to supply tons of an acid sometimes used to enrich uranium. After Washington protests, Beijing stops the sale.
 
May 1997 -- U.S. imposes sanctions on seven Chinese companies and individuals for helping Iran's chemical weapons program.
 
October 1997-present -- China refuses to sign the control regime, which would mean abiding by its annexes, which list banned exports. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

COMPANY: CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION (59%); CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION (59%); CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CHEMICALS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); RIOTS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ERLANGER, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (92%); TRENT LOTT (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1998



560 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Iran's Parliament Ousts a Minister but President Rehires Him

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: TEHERAN, Iran, June 21

 BODY:
In a high-stakes political battle filled with recriminations and rage, Iran's Parliament voted today to dismiss one of the closest allies of Mohammad Khatami, the reform-minded President.
Mr. Khatami swiftly retaliated. He made Abdullah Noori, the ousted Minister of the Interior, a Vice President.
Parliament is controlled by Mr. Khatami's enemies. Its action today is the most serious political setback to his presidency since his landslide victory 13 months ago as well as graphic proof of Mr. Khatami's limited room for maneuver in Iran's Islamic Republic. 
 The vote comes just three days after Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright warmly praised Mr. Khatami and the direction in which he seems to be taking the country, and she held out the prospect of eventual normalization of relations with Iran.
The vote, 137 to 117 with 11 abstentions, came in a secret ballot after several hours of impassioned debate in which Mr. Noori was accused of arrogantly dismissing officials who did not share his politics, fostering an unstable economic environment and putting the country's security at risk.
The vote was as much an attack against Mr. Khatami as it was against Mr. Noori, and it is part of a wider campaign led by conservative members of the clergy to discredit officials loyal to the President.
The parliamentary session was broadcast live on radio and later on television as millions of Iranian viewers were awaiting the live broadcast of the World Cup soccer match between the United States and Iran at 11:30 P.M. Both opponents and supporters of Mr. Noori stepped up to the lectern in the center of the modest parliamentary hall to air their views.
"If the current trend continues, the result will be something like Lebanon of a few years ago, or Yugoslavia," said Mohammad Reza Bahonar, a Deputy Speaker of Parliament, predicting partition of the country. "Mr. Noori's attitude is dangerous to the political future of the country."
In another angry speech, Marzieh Vahid-Dastjerdi, an obstetrician and representative from Teheran who was dressed in the traditional black chador, accused Mr. Noori of replacing 1,700 officials, primarily because they "were not thinking like you." She also attacked Mr. Noori's definition of freedom, saying, "For us, freedom doesn't mean that counterrevolutionary groups can do whatever they want and create anarchy."
In support of Mr. Noori, Majid Ansari, a member of Parliament from Teheran, accused the minister's enemies of exaggerating Iran's troubles as if "Iran is on the verge of war."
Mr. Noori sat stone-faced during the speeches before offering a defense.
"I do not claim I never made a mistake," he said. But he accused his enemies of a plot to alienate Iran's young people from the true meaning of the Islamic revolution.
Mr. Noori was reflecting the position voiced repeatedly by Mr. Khatami and his supporters that what is at stake is nothing less than the soul of the nation. According to this line of thinking, unless Iran becomes freer at home and more open to the outside world, it will lose the allegiance of the generation born in the 19 years since the monarchy was overthrown.
Mr. Khatami has therefore committed himself to the creation of a "civil society" and the "rule of law" at home and has reached out to improve relations with both the Arab world and the West.
But Mr. Khatami is fiercely opposed by those clerics -- and their followers -- who believe that the core beliefs of the revolution are being sacrificed.
"If Parliament does not give me the vote of confidence, I will thank God that he has lifted this heavy responsibility from my shoulders, and I will see this as God's mercy," Mr. Noori said in his speech. "And if I get the vote of confidence, I will be energized once again."
He added, "Whether Abdullah Noori remains or not, until the last second of my life I will remain the servant of the system, the revolution and the leadership."
Members of Parliament cast white ballots to dismiss Mr. Noori, purple ballots to keep him and yellow ballots to abstain. Then Ali Akbar Nateq-Noori, the Speaker of Parliament, announced in sober tones, "Mr. Abdullah Noori failed to win a vote of confidence." Several of the members shouted, "God is great!"
Mr. Nateq-Noori had been the front-runner for President and lost in an upset to Mr. Khatami.
On Thursday, Mr. Khatami defended Mr. Noori, calling him "one of the strongest ministers in the Cabinet." The President predicted that Mr. Noori's "absence from the Cabinet will entail massive damage for the Government and the country."
Although Mr. Khatami acknowledged that Parliament had the right under the Constitution to dismiss Mr. Noori, he reiterated his determination to give the people the freedoms they hold under the law. "I and my administration are very serious about this principle," he said. "Of course, it has costs which must be paid, just like building a bridge or a factory."
In introducing the dismissal motion last month, 31 members of Parliament accused Mr. Noori of "creating tension in society, giving provocative interviews and speeches in different provinces and appointing inexperienced people to managerial posts in the ministry."
Mr. Noori, 49, a mid-ranking cleric from Isfahan, has been an outspoken proponent of Mr. Khatami's commitment to impose a rule of law and has come under fire for issuing permits to allow groups to conduct peaceful demonstrations.
Under the Constitution, the country's spiritual leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and not the President, controls the judiciary, as well as the military, radio and television and the intelligence and security services.
But Mr. Khatami has encouraged Mr. Noori to challenge decisions by the judiciary -- particularly the arrest of Teheran's Mayor, Gholamhossein Karabaschi, who is on trial on corruption and embezzlement charges. The trial is broadcast on television in the evenings.
Mr. Noori has also strongly supported Mr. Karabaschi and has openly criticized the chief of the judiciary, Ayatollah Mohammed Yazdi, for arresting the Mayor in April without telling Mr. Noori.
He said at the time, "When the Mayor of Teheran, who is a member of the Cabinet, is arrested without informing the Interior Minister or even the President and some public media resort to rumor-mongering; when the Mayor, with all his experience, is prevented from having any visitors and an arrest warrant that is totally inconsistent with the charges is issued for him; when propaganda campaigns against the Mayor and his colleagues are launched for several consecutive months from every side and he remains silent, like a wronged person, in the interest of the state, what hope can an ordinary citizen have that the law will defend his rights?"
After several thousand people demonstrated in favor of the Mayor, he was released on bail.
In a direct affront to Parliament, Mr. Khatami today cited Mr. Noori's "capabilities" and created a job for him: Vice President for Development and Social Affairs. The job keeps Mr. Noori in the Cabinet and does not require Parliament's approval.
In another sign that he had no intention of surrendering to Parliament, Mr. Khatami appointed Mostafa Tajzadeh, a Deputy Minister of the Interior, as the acting minister. Mr. Tajzadeh, a staunch supporter of the President, was also criticized today by some Parliament members. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (79%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); 

COMPANY: IRAN'S PARLIAMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: IRAN'S PARLIAMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); RELIGION (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (64%); SOCCER (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION (64%); 

PERSON: KHATAMI, MOHAMMAD (PRES); NOORI, ABDULLAH (MIN); SCIOLINO, ELAINE ABDULLAH NOORI (95%); MOHAMMAD KHATAMI (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1998



561 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Compromised Visitor

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Never has a U.S. President traveled to Beijing at such a disadvantage: Bill Clinton has reason to suspect that the Chinese leaders possess information about "the China connection" to his campaigns, but he does not know what it is.
He knows that they know much more than anyone about the penetration of the White House by Asian fronts for Chinese intelligence. They have all the details about Indonesia's Riady family's long-term investment in his career, and probably of instructions to influence his post-election change of trade policy. 
 Mr. Clinton must assume it is in China's interest to provide an escape hatch for 50 fleeing witnesses, to deny being the source of millions in campaign contributions and to keep secret Democratic money laundering done by Hong Kong and Macao banks. China will want to conceal from the Justice Department and Congress the illegal donations to, and policy penetration of, the White House and D.N.C.
In obstructing any investigation, the interests of China run parallel to those of this compromised U.S. President. Both Clinton and the Chinese want nothing further to come out. Accept, if you wish, the protestations of Clinton defenders that his campaign organization was duped by John Huang, Charlie Trie and Maria Hsia, and was ignorant of the source of the Asian funds solicited from Johnny Chung. Buy, if you like, the notion that the payments had nothing to do with flip-flops on trade and the technology-transfer triumph over the Pentagon by anything-goes Commerce.
But even if China's quid was not "solely" responsible for Clinton's quo, the fact remains that secret Chinese money passed and U.S. policy changed. The unspoken truth haunting this summit is that China's leaders have something on this President.
Would they use this illicit leverage to gain a concession? Of course not; Chinese diplomacy can be exquisitely subtle. No winks of understanding will be needed.
In this charade, Mr. Clinton will formally ask the Chinese to cooperate with the Congress and the Department of Justice, and China's Jiang will formally promise to help. Perhaps an expendable non-official middleman will be designated to take a gentle fall, helping Janet Reno to avoid having to seek independent counsel. And the relieved Clinton will owe Jiang a big one.
In light of his personal negotiating difficulty, and recognizing the need for the U.S. to exchange summit visits with a major power, what can we reasonably ask our President to do?
1. Before leaving for Beijing, stop claiming that all critics seek only to "isolate" a billion people. Clinton's tired straw-man argument insults both human-rights activists and hard-line strategists. I wrote that for Nixon, and the grapes of wrath don't take a second squeezing.
2. On arrival, don't waste your mandatory human-rights message on the accompanying press corps. Instead, insist on making it a major theme of your live broadcast-telecast to the Chinese people, and be sure the interpreter is our man. Meet and be photographed with authentic dissidents and offer to host a White House meeting between Jiang and the Dalai Lama.
3. In negotiations, deal with verification of promises to curtail the spread of nukes and missiles; don't try to con the world with a phony p.r. stunt of "re-targeting" missiles. We all know they can be aimed again at U.S. cities within 10 minutes -- and now much more accurately, thanks to the victory of Clinton Commerce and the big donors over the Pentagon.
4. Surface the concern in our intelligence community with experiments in China to gain the ability to combat our "critical infrastructure." A brigade of official hackers with the mission of destroying our computer communications and satellites is even more worrisome than a beachhead in Long Beach, Calif.
5. Try financial jujitsu. When China threatened to devalue its yuan unless the U.S. and Japan bolstered the yen, the U.S. jumped to do Beijing's bidding. Now Clinton should heap praise on Chinese "economic stability" -- making it harder for China to devalue when the pressure in Japan builds again.
Finally, let Jiang know that the next U.S. President might not be so vulnerable to revelations of Chinese manipulation, and will not forget any advantage taken of this one.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); INDONESIA (92%); MACAO (79%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); INDONESIA (92%); MACAO (79%); HONG KONG (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ETHICS; FINANCES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); ETHICS (75%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); MONEY LAUNDERING (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SAFIRE, WILLIAM BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1998



562 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Colombian President's Accuser Handily Wins Presidency

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, June 21

 BODY:
Colombians voted a resounding end today to the scandal-ridden presidency of Ernesto Samper, electing as his successor the man who first accused Mr. Samper of accepting money from drug dealers.
The election of the opponent, Andres Pastrana, the Conservative former Mayor of Bogota, over Horacio Serpa of the Liberal Party, President Samper's Interior Minister and most loyal advocate, opens a new chapter in Colombia's relations with the United States, which have boiled over with bitterness and suspicion in Mr. Samper's four years in power. 
 With more than 96 percent of the vote counted, Mr. Pastrana had won 50.3 percent of the vote, to 46.25 for Mr. Serpa.
"The country clearly came out to vote for change," Mr. Pastrana said.
The unusually strong showing of Mr. Pastrana, who won a higher number of votes than any previously elected president, and a high turnout was in sharp contrast to opinion surveys, all of which had shown the two candidates virtually tied and had predicted a low turnout.
"It's a rejection of all the negative things the country has been living through for the last four years, the Government policies, unemployment, corruption and a style of politics that's very tied to patronage," said Rodrigo Losada, a political scientist at Javeriana University.
Alfredo Rangel, a former national security adviser who said he was "absolutely surprised" by the results, agreed. "The Liberal Party political machine couldn't pull it off," Mr. Rangel said. "And it was mobilized to the maximum."
Mr. Rangel predicted that relations with the United States would dramatically improve with Mr. Pastrana's election, probably entering a new era of closeness and cooperation between the two countries.
Mr. Serpa, in defending Mr. Samper, had frequently lashed out publicly against American officials, at one point calling the former United States Ambassador here, Myles R. Frechette, "the crazy gringo."
Mr. Serpa conceded defeat tonight, saying, "I congratulate Andres Pastrana for his election as Colombia's next President and I call on all my fellow countrymen to support him and accompany him in the difficult task he faces."
Under Mr. Samper, who was accused of having accepted $6 million from drug dealers in his campaign and whose United States visa was revoked two years ago, American officials cultivated ties with other individuals or agencies like the Police Chief, Gen. Rosso Jose Serrano, while largely avoiding direct encounters with the President.
"Very definitively, voters punished the Samper Government," Mr. Rangel said. "It's an overwhelming rejection of continuity."
Although Mr. Pastrana may enjoy strong electoral backing, the Congress remains heavily Liberal. A Liberal deputy who has been supporting Mr. Pastrana's candidacy, Ingrid Betancur, said Mr. Pastrana would probably seek a referendum to elect a new Congress as part of an overall drive for political reform if he could not govern with the current Congress.
As President-Elect, Mr. Pastrana's first order of business is expected to be a meeting with the leader of the largest rebel group that has been battling Government security forces for more than 30 years, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia. He pledged to hold such a meeting as early as next week, if security permits.
The two candidates' potential ability to negotiate an end to the civil conflict that has claimed more than 30,000 lives in Colombia was, along with the economy, a top issue in the campaign. With the strong support of the business community and his Conservative credentials unquestioned by the military, Mr. Pastrana appears to have wide latitude for tackling the most difficult problems.
In the final days of campaigning, Mr. Pastrana had said he would meet the rebel leader, Manuel Marulanda, who had met with Mr. Pastrana's campaign chief the week before.
Mr. Marulanda allowed the release of a photograph of his talking with the campaign manager in what appeared to be a silent endorsement of Mr. Pastrana. That move struck at the heart of Mr. Serpa's claim to be the candidate most capable of negotiating peace talks, and it increased Mr. Pastrana's standing among voters weary of the seemingly intractable civil conflict.
Mr. Pastrana has pledged to lead negotiations personally with the leftist rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia and with the smaller National Liberation Army and has agreed to a guerrilla demand that Government security forces evacuate five municipalities during any peace negotiations. He has also pledged separate parallel talks with right-wing paramilitary leaders, who have been demanding a say in any peace negotiations.
Mr. Pastrana has not ruled out a settlement that would incorporate the rebels in the Government, allowing them political control of areas that they already control. Under such an agreement, the Government would eventually end the fumigation of drug crops, holding the rebels responsible for eliminating drug crops in their areas. Mr. Pastrana has proposed an international aid plan to support alternative development in coca-growing regions, as well.
The mood in Bogota was festive and energetic today, with cars festooned with posters and stickers for the candidates careering down the avenues and taking over street corners. Youngsters painted their faces in the red, blue and yellow of the Colombian flag and waved flags from car windows. At scattered stoplights Mr. Pastrana's supporters exhorted drivers to vote for their candidate, while across the street, supporters of Mr. Serpa shouted the praises of their hopeful.
In Bogota those encounters were free of violence. But in the countryside scattered fighting between guerrillas and Government security forces was reported.
At polling places like the working-class district of South Candelaria and the stylish outdoor polling stations in northern Bogota voters appeared divided and none too pleased with either candidate.
An executive, Jorge Ramirez, 46, stood with his dog outside the room where he was going to vote. He said he could not decide for whom to vote and listed his country's troubles.
"Violence, mismanagement, bad administration," Mr. Ramirez said. "The corruption of the upper classes, which is poisoning our country day by day. There are things the country cannot forget."
But later, he said he decided to vote for Mr. Serpa, faulting Mr. Pastrana for his poor performance as Mayor of Bogota from 1988 to 1990.
In poorer neighborhoods Mr. Pastrana, son of former President Misael Pastrana, was frequently resented for his political pedigree, while Mr. Serpa was embraced for having risen above his working-class background in the oil port of Barrancabermeja. But those aspiring to the middle class, holding management jobs or owning their own businesses, appeared to favor Mr. Pastrana.
Epaminondas Navarrete, who said he had been working for 48 of his 56 years, said that both candidates made grand promises, but that Mr. Serpa's pledge to shrink the work week to 40 hours from 48 as a means of combatting unemployment would hurt his business.
"I don't know which one to believe," he said. "but I think I believe Pastrana more than Serpa."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The victorious presidential candidate in Colombia, Andres Pastrana, flanked by his wife, Nora Puyana, and son Santiago after voting yesterday in Bogota. Mr. Pastrana is a former Mayor of the capital. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (90%); 

COMPANY: LIBERAL PARTY (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL PARTY (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; COLOMBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ETHICS POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); ETHICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); CORRUPTION (73%); REFERENDUMS (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (63%); 

PERSON: PASTRANA, ANDRES; SERPA, HORACIO (MIN); SAMPER, ERNESTO (PRES) JOSE E SERRANO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1998



563 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1603 words

HEADLINE: SOME PRICES JUMP DESPITE A PATTERN OF LOW INFLATION

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
While the national inflation rate stays persistently low, reminiscent of the 1950's and 60's, prices have been rising noticeably in recent months for a variety of everyday items -- from fast-food hamburgers to auto maintenance to dental care.
The increases have been sharp enough in some cases not only to catch people's attention but to provoke their annoyance. 
 Consider the experience of John Gachelin, a 28-year-old marketing executive, who moved with his wife to Dallas from Chicago, in part to lower their living costs. Unlike Illinois, Texas has no state income tax. And houses cost less. But in the seven months since the move, the Gachelins have been hit with steep price increases to rent videos, change the oil in their two cars, buy cigarettes (he smokes), use a pay phone and buy hardcover books.
"The pay phone really surprised me," said Mr. Gachelin, who earns $40,000 a year. "I put in a quarter one day, and I found that I had to deposit 35 cents. But, hey, what can you do about it?"
What softens the blow for the Gachelins and many others are the prices that are not rising. Most of the essentials -- food, gasoline, cars, furniture, appliances, most apparel -- are holding steady in price or becoming cheaper. That is why the Consumer Price Index, which is an average of the prices of thousands of goods and services, has risen by only 1.7 percent over the last year.
It is the extras in life -- along with a few striking essentials, like home prices and rents -- that are becoming noticeably more expensive, and that is raising eyebrows. The University of Michigan's weekly consumer surveys may be registering the smallest percentage of Americans in 30 years worried about inflation, but they are also registering a growing annoyance.
"Almost everyone has this asymmetric reaction," said Richard Curtin, director of the surveys. "When prices go down or don't rise much, people don't say, 'On average, inflation is 1 or 2 percent.' Their attention is drawn to the items that went up in price, and they are annoyed. When prices go down or hold steady, they don't pay special attention; they just think that was a good buy."
Just how can the overall inflation rate remain so low while so many individual prices seem to be rising smartly? The answer lies in the way the Consumer Price Index is calculated. The Government checks 80,000 different prices each month, many of them for manufactured goods and commodities -- toys and cars, for example, and gasoline and food. These prices figure heavily in the averaging process that produces the Consumer Price Index. But over the last year, the prices of manufactured goods and commodities have remained steady, in part because of the pressure of global competition, and that has held down the overall index.
The price increases these days are centered in the service sector, where prices are rising rather smartly for a growing number of items. These increases, however, are not widespread enough to pull up the overall index beyond its current low level.
"The price increases in services have certainly outpaced those for products and commodities in the Consumer Price Index," said Patrick Jackman, chief of the group at the Bureau of Labor Statistics that compiles the index. If the trend continues, the index could edge up gradually. That, in fact, has happened in the last two months.
The expanding list of rising prices is partly a reflection of the robust economy. As incomes rise and unemployment falls, people become more ambitious in their purchases and more tolerant of price increases, even while complaining. So they go along with a Manhattan merchant, for example, who has raised the price of his custom-made suits by $100, to between $750 and $1,095.
"I needed to be at this level three or four years ago," said Andrew Kozinn, the third-generation owner of Saint Laurie Merchant Tailors on Broadway near 19th Street. He recently opened his first uptown store, on Park Avenue at 51st Street, to draw more customers from the banks, investment houses and office towers in the area. "I could not have raised my prices or opened that store," Mr. Kozinn said, "without this feeling of prosperity among so many people."
Merchants in general have become bolder in pushing up prices. That is particularly the case if what they sell is much in demand these days and short in supply, like custom-made men's suits or rental apartments. Or they are services available from no one else -- Walt Disney's theme parks, for example, and the state-run ferry system that carries 25 million riders a year between Seattle and the numerous island communities in Puget Sound.
Disney's admission price to its theme parks in Orlando, Fla., rose nearly 5 percent in April, to $42, and the state-run ferry system's tickets went up 7 percent, on average, in May. The new fares range up to $30 on the longest route. The state ferry commission said the increases were required to finance expansion of the fleet; the service is heavily used by tourists and commuters. The commuters expressed resignation. Many said, in a questionnaire, that they had no reasonable alternative to the ferry.
The ferry price increase, the first since 1994, reflects an increasingly common practice in the private sector. "Our clients have been struggling with price resistance for so long that any cunning they can use to grab an extra price, they use," said Daniel Yankelovich, chairman of the polling company DYG, whose clients are mostly corporations. "The list of significant increases is almost a profile of what people can get away with."
Prices in the last year have gone up significantly more than the inflation rate in more than 30 categories. This is evident in the data collected by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and in more than two dozen interviews with company executives and representatives of trade and consumer organizations.
The list includes price increases already much in the news: fees for using automated-teller machines, for example, car rentals, airline fares for last-minute travelers, hotel rates, monthly apartment rentals and housing prices, although the cost of running a house has gone down for those who have refinanced mortgages.
Other increases run the gamut of services: legal fees, dental care, H.M.O. insurance premiums, parking lot rates, some fast-food restaurant prices, long-distance phone calls made within a state, accountants' fees, school tuition at all levels and charges for vehicle maintenance.
Entertainment is also more expensive -- cable television rates are up, as are tickets to most theme parks and sports events, entrance fees for some national parks and even wine. The price of a funeral also keeps going up.
Rising costs are sometimes cited as justification for the price increases. The Boston Red Sox, in announcing a ticket price increase at Fenway Park, argued that the money would go in part to pay the salaries of expensive baseball players. Procter & Gamble invoked higher paper costs as the reason for a 6 percent increase in the prices of bath and facial tissues in January. And Burger King blamed the rising minimum wage, which has pushed up the earnings of many of its employees, as a reason for cutting back sharply on the discounting of its Whopper hamburger.
Since March, the Whopper has been sold increasingly at its full price of $1.99 to $2.19, and the once-frequent discounts, to 99 cents, have been gradually eliminated, said Kim Miller, a Burger King spokeswoman. "We have decided consciously to shift the battle to taste, not price," she said.
Still, there is the problem of getting customers in the door. Americans have grown accustomed to discounts and bargains, and Burger King still offers 99-cent specials. But now it generally features less costly food than the Whopper -- a small milkshake, for example, or onion rings or fries. The hope is that once in the door, customers will spring for the Whopper.
Even Mr. Kozinn, the Manhattan clothier, has, as a lure, a giant yellow tape measure placed decorously in the window of his Park Avenue store. In red ink, the word "sale" stands out against the yellow background. John Lynch, a lawyer, sometimes has suits made at Mr. Kozinn's establishment for the sale price; usually they feature less expensive fabric. But last winter, he picked out a pricey British cloth, a blue woolen, and paid $795 for it. That same suit, six months earlier, had sold for $695.
"I am very thin and I have no seat," he said, "and I would have to spend almost as much to properly tailor a suit purchased off the rack. Still, $795 is a stretch and I would probably draw the line if the price went up another $100, or if I got concerned about the economy."
That same sort of ceiling seemed to govern an increase in pay phone rates in many states. Deregulation permitted the increase, but an attempt by local phone companies, which own many of the pay phones, to impose a 50-cent minimum in some Midwestern states resulted in a sharp decline in use. The customer resistance disappeared at a 35-cent minimum, and that became the norm in many states starting last October, although not in New York, which still charges 25 cents.
"The notion was that the market should set the price," said James Smith, a spokesman for Bell Atlantic, which provides service in the Northeast, "and 35 cents has turned out to be the market price."
Sooner or later, of course, the market will have something else to say about prices. "It will be interesting," said Mr. Jackman of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, "to see what happens when the economy slows down."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Looking at the Price Tag"
Over the last year, prices of commodities and manufactured goods have held steady, on average, while prices of services have risen, as tracked by the Consumer Price Index. Here are percentage changes for the year ended in May in the two areas and in some of their components.
 
COMMODITIES AND MANUFACTURED GOODS
Total -- Up 0.1%
Prescription drugs -- Up 3.3%
Housekeeping supplies -- Up 1.9%
Meat, poultry, fish and eggs -- Down 1.0%
Toys -- Down 4.9%
Gasoline -- Down 10.5%
 
SERVICES
Total -- Up 2.8%
Hotel services -- Up 5.5%
Tickets to events -- Up 4.8%
Dental services -- Up 4.1%
Car maintenance -- Up 4.0%
Rent on primary home -- Up 3.1%
 
(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (77%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (77%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; SERVICE INDUSTRIES PRICE INCREASES (92%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); FAST FOOD (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INCOME TAX (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); MARKETING SURVEYS (56%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1998



564 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Yen Weakens a Bit Against Dollar, but Stocks Rise

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday, June 22

 BODY:
Just two days before President Clinton departs for China, financial markets in Asia reacted cautiously today to the weekend's political and diplomatic efforts to stabilize the Japanese yen and other Asia currencies.
The yen dipped modestly in value against the dollar in early Tokyo trading today, after Japan offered promises, but no specific measures, to revive its limping economy. 
 The Japanese currency weakened to 137.35 to the dollar, from 136.10 yen in New York on Friday, erasing just a bit of the gains brought about by the intervention of the United States and Japan last week. Before the intervention by Japanese and American authorities last week, the yen had reached 144 to the dollar.
Japanese stocks were stable, with the Nikkei index of 225 issues up 12.34, to 15,280.32, at midmorning.
Currency traders were wary in selling off the yen because of the possibility that the United States and Japan might intervene in the currency markets again, as they did on Wednesday, to prop up the yen. Their cautious stance also reflected concern about being on the wrong side of a bet if Japan does take steps to strengthen its economy.
"Maybe people's thinking has grown up a little and they realize this is not going to happen overnight," said Richard Jerram, economist at ING Barings Securities (Japan) Ltd., referring to the process of reviving Japan's economy. "It's going to take the next few months."
"Everyone is skeptical" about Japan's commitment to introducing structural change, he said, adding: "But if they do deliver, it's so huge that a currency-negative approach would be costly."
At a hastily called meeting Saturday of delegates from the Group of Seven industrialized nations and 10 Asian nations, Japan reiterated its commitment to clean up the nation's bad banking loans and to take steps to revive its economy. But despite expectations, Japan offered no new or concrete plans.
In what appeared to be an attempt to fend off an attack on the yen, Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto held an emergency meeting this morning on the nation's bad banking loans with Koichi Kato, the secretary general of the governing Liberal Democratic Party. The meeting came as newspapers reported that a large Japanese bank, the Long-Term Credit Bank, which is saddled with billions of dollars in bad loans, was desperately looking for a rescue merger to escape collapse.
A further rapid decline of the yen would threaten financial stability in Asia and could escalate the economic turmoil in the region to a new level, particularly if China moved to devalue its currency.
Asian leaders have been unnerved by the prospect of China devaluing its currency. A devaluation by China could lead to a round of devaluations around the region, as other countries aim to cheapen their exports.
President Clinton said on Friday that the impact of currency instability on China played an important role in the decision by United States authorities to intervene and support the value of the yen last week.
"The most important thing is to try to alter the conditions which, if they continued to worsen, would make them feel compelled to devalue," President Clinton told Bloomberg News in an interview.
His remarks highlighted the role that China is playing in helping to maintain financial stability in Asia. China itself seems to have tried to bring about some coordinated response on the decline of the yen and had publicly voiced concern over the tumbling yen in the last two weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); ASIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: ING BARINGS LTD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN (98%); ASIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US CURRENCIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEVALUATION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); TRENDS (74%); BONDS (72%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1998



565 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: Distrust and Fear in the G.M. Strike

 BODY:
The United Automobile Workers' strike against General Motors in Flint, Mich., is an indication of just how deep distrust can still run in an industry where workers and management all too often have seen each other as enemies whose every action is viewed with hostility.
This strike began in that atmosphere. Each side believes the other failed to live up to promises made more than a year ago. The company says workers are refusing to implement agreements to improve productivity, while the workers accuse management of not making promised investments to improve the plant and fear management secretly wants to move their jobs to Mexico or to non-union suppliers. Neither side thinks it can rely on the word of the other, and there is no sign that the strike, which began June 5, will end soon. Workers and the company are suffering as the strike forces G.M. to close most of its North American assembly lines. 
 For the workers themselves, there is no reason to fear losing their jobs. The U.A.W.'s contract with G.M. guarantees that current union workers can keep working until they retire. But G.M.'s hourly work force in America has been declining steadily with attrition and is now less than half the level of two decades ago. The workers fear their children will not have the opportunities they had to get well-paid auto industry jobs.
With the American economy booming, G.M. is making money, a fact that makes it harder for the company to plead necessity as it pushes for higher productivity. But the world auto industry has substantial overcapacity, and some kind of shakeout is probably inevitable. For American plants to continue to compete in making affordable cars, companies and workers must find a way to cooperate. Ford and Chrysler have done a far better job of this than has General Motors, which is enduring its 16th strike in five years.
This strike will be settled at some point, and G.M. cars will again roll off the assembly lines. But if the two sides do not find a way to change the atmosphere of distrust and hostility, the chances of G.M.'s regaining its competitive edge -- and of being in a position to hire the children of current workers -- will not be good.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: FLINT, MI, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS; GENERAL MOTORS CORP GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS; GENERAL MOTORS CORP INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); FLINT, MI, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; EDITORIALS; STRIKES; LABOR; LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS STRIKES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); DISMISSALS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1998



566 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 
Israeli Cabinet Approves Expansion of Jerusalem
The Israeli Cabinet approved a plan to expand the city of Jerusalem's control far beyond its current borders despite protests from Palestinians and Washington's warning that the plan was "provocative." Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said that the plan did not violate peace accords with the Palestinian, under which the final status of Jerusalem is to be negotiated. A1
 
Parliament Rebuffs Khatami
Iran's Parliament voted to dismiss Interior Minister Abdullah Noori, a close ally of the country's reform-minded President Mohammed Khatami. Mr. Khatami swiftly retaliated by making Mr. Noori a Vice President. The jostling was part of a wider campaign by conservative members of the clergy to discredit officials loyal to the President. A9 

Colombian Leader Ousted
Colombians voted a resounding end to the scandal-ridden Presidency of Ernesto Samper by electing Andres Pastrana, the man who first accused Mr. Samper of accepting $6 million from drug dealers, to succeed him. The election could open a new chapter in Colombia's relations with the United States, which were bitter during Mr. Samper's administration. A3
 
China Policy Is Disputed
Congressional leaders' increasing furor over the Clinton Administration's engagement policy with China has taken center stage in Washington as President Clinton prepares to go to China this week. Congressional leaders, mostly Republican, argue that the executive branch is ignoring a pattern of Chinese exports of dangerous nuclear, chemical and ballistic missile technology. At the White House there is an equal frustration with Congress for trying to "micromanage" relations with China. A6
 
Just two days before President Clinton departs for China, financial markets in Asia reacted cautiously to political and diplomatic efforts over the weekend to stabilize the Japanese yen and other Asian currencies. The yen dipped modestly in value against the dollar in early Tokyo trading, after Japan offered promises, but no specific measures, to revive its limping economy. A5
 
Pope Appeals for Unity
Pope John Paul II instructed Austria's bishops to stop their public bickering, on the last day of his visit to Austria. The Pope's three masses were eagerly attended by believers, but the crowds were small and restrained compared with the vast gatherings that greeted him on recent trips to Nigeria and Cuba. A10
 
Explosion Near Beirut Embassy
Bombs exploded near the fortified American Embassy compound in a suburb north of Beirut, but there were no casualties, security officials said. There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the explosions, which occurred about a half-mile from the compound. Security officials said the embassy, the site of two suicide bombings in the past, was not the intended target. (AP)
 
NATIONAL A12-16
 
Starr Talks With Lewinsky Are Far From an Agreement
Five months after investigators began exploring allegations of a sexual relationship between President Clinton and Monica S. Lewinsky, new lawyers for the former White House intern have returned to the same standoff with Kenneth W. Starr, the independent counsel, that her previous lawyers confronted. Details of the negotiations between Mr. Starr and Ms. Lewinsky's legal team suggest the two sides are still far from an agreement that would lead to her testimony. A16
 
Prices Defy Low Inflation
While the national inflation rate stays persistently low, reminiscent of the 1950's and 60's, prices have been rising noticeably in recent months for a variety of everyday items -- from fast-food hamburgers to auto maintenance to dental care. The increases have been sharp enough in some cases not only to catch people's attention but to provoke their annoyance. A1
 
A New Symbol of Old Age
Centenarians are proportionately the country's fastest growing age group. Demographers say there are now 30,000 to 50,000, up from the 1980 estimate of 15,000. It is estimated that by the middle of the next century, more than 800,000 Americans will be over 100. And so many are making it to 100 in relatively good health, as life expectancies increase, that centenarians have become a symbol of the country's age boom, and a metaphor for the dramatic shift in attitude about the meaning of old age. A1
 
Race to Pass Spending Bills
Representative Robert L. Livingston, the Louisiana Republican who is chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, says, "Not everybody's going to get what they want," as the House and Senate get down to passing the 13 spending bills that keep the Government running in the weeks before Congress adjourns for the November elections. Even though experts are forecasting a budget surplus of as much as $64 billion this year, the process is already showing the strains of the spending limits imposed by last year's balanced-budget agreement. A16
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Brooklyn Welfare Office Discourages Applicants
The new goal for a squat welfare office on Bergen Street in Brooklyn is to discourage people from applying for welfare. People who push through the smudged glass doors are told to look for jobs, not welfare, and to lean on relatives, not city charity. Those who insist on seeking public assistance must hunt for as many as 20 jobs before getting a formal interview. And two months after the new policy went into effect, fewer than 10 percent land on the dole now, compared to 60 percent under the previous policy. A1
 
Immigration Law Criticized
Immigration lawyers and advocates for refugees say Federal immigration laws are applied unevenly and important decisions -- from how long it takes to review an asylum seeker's case, to whether he or she is quickly paroled or detained for months -- seem to hinge more on the number of beds available at a detention center has than on a cohesive national policy. A 1997 law allows the refugees to be paroled on a case-by-case basis and only for "urgent humanitarian reasons or significant public benefit." The Immigration and Naturalization Service allows its 33 district directors to exercise their discretion in deciding whether to keep detainees behind bars. B1
 
Hospital Workers' Deal
Thirty-five private hospitals and nursing homes in New York City reached a tentative deal, negotiated by 1199, the National Health and Human Service Employees Union, that provides far-reaching job-security provisions for 50,000 workers. The union will reduce layoff pressures by tapping its pension plan to finance an early retirement program. B1
 
SPORTSMONDAY C1-12
 
Iran Beats U.S. in World Cup
Iran's 2-1 defeat of the United States knocked the Americans out of contention for the World Cup. This was the first time that Iran and the United States had met in soccer and the first time that Iran ever won a game in its two trips to the World Cup. A1
 
ARTS E1-8
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-12
 
Time to Investigate Article
Time magazine's editors have ordered a further investigation of doubts raised about the accuracy of a recent article reporting that the United States dropped nerve gas in Laos during the Vietnam war as part of a secret mission to kill American defectors. The article was published in Time but was written by Cable News Network journalists. D1
 
I.B.M.'s New Chip Has Promise
Without fanfare but with potentially far-reaching significance for the semiconductor industry, I.B.M. has begun the industry's first large-scale production of a type of chip that may reduce prices and improve performance and portability for cellular phones and other wireless communications devices. D1
 
Business Digest D1
 
OBITUARIES A17
 
Al Campanis
The Los Angeles Dodgers executive who touched off a furor -- and shattered his career -- by suggesting that blacks were unqualified for high-level baseball jobs, was 81. A21
 
EDITORIAL A18-19
 
Editorials: Echoes of El Salvador in Colombia; let them vote on Mr. Hormel; distrust and fear in Flint; a late bloom.
Columns: Anthony Lewis, William Safire.
 
Bridge E6
 
Metro. Diary B2
 
Crossword E8
 
Weather B7

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); COLOMBIA (93%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AUSTRIA (73%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); COLOMBIA (93%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AUSTRIA (73%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); BOMBINGS (86%); CURRENCIES (86%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CONSERVATISM (74%); RELIGION (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); SCANDALS (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (66%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (64%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (64%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (60%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1998



567 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: Stiff Rules Gut Welfare Rolls At Two Offices

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS 

 BODY:
For years, the poor, the hungry and the jobless have poured into the squat welfare office on Bergen Street in Brooklyn where city workers eased the pangs of poverty with government checks. But today, the primary goal at the office, as a city manual for the workers states, is to discourage people from applying at all.
People who push through the smudged glass doors are told to look for jobs, not welfare, and to lean on relatives, not city charity. Those who insist on seeking public assistance must hunt for as many as 20 jobs before getting a formal interview. And two months after workers began delivering the new message in Brooklyn and at another office in Queens, the number of welfare applications there has plummeted. 
 While 60 percent of the people who walked into those two offices once ended up on welfare, fewer than 10 percent land on the dole now, city officials said. It is too early to say whether the staggering decline can be maintained or replicated citywide, but the Giuliani administration's strategy will soon transform the lives of needy adults and children all across New York City.
The policy shift, which is to be adopted by all city welfare offices over the next nine months, signals the expansion of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's efforts to steer the city away from its traditionally liberal approach to the needy as he increasingly emphasizes self-reliance over government dependence.
"People shouldn't have welfare anymore," said Mark Hoover, a deputy commissioner at the city's Human Resources Administration, which runs the city welfare programs, during a meeting with officials from community groups earlier this month. "What they should have is work and work opportunities."
But the city manual describes employment as a "secondary goal." The "primary goal," it says, is diverting people from applying for public assistance while at the same time offering stopgap subsidies like rent assistance and food stamps. And it remains unclear whether the people discouraged from applying for welfare actually find jobs or simply languish in poverty. City officials declined to release those statistics, saying they were now analyzing them.
Tightening access to welfare is increasingly popular across the country, but the strict, systematic approach is new for a city that has focused more recently on moving welfare recipients into workfare. Over the last three years, the number of welfare applications approved citywide has held steady at about 55 percent, city records show.
But in January, when Mr. Giuliani outlined the priorities for his second term, he vowed to transform welfare offices into "job centers" where the poor would be steered toward jobs, not government checks. City officials said the plan would ultimately reduce welfare applications across the city and strengthen poor communities with its renewed emphasis on work. In the neighborhood surrounding the Boerum Hill office in Brooklyn alone, for instance, the strategy is expected to reduce the welfare rolls by 30 percent over the next three years.
Advocates for the poor, who like several former welfare officials were stunned by the sharp drop in applications, fear that city workers are concentrating less on jobs than on discouraging people from applying for welfare. They say discouraging poor, unskilled people is easier than helping them find jobs in New York City, where the unemployment rate is 7.7 percent, compared with the national rate of 4.3 percent.
"This is a bogus policy designed to reduce the welfare rolls," said Helen Lee, a staff attorney at the Legal Aid Society, who has begun monitoring the job centers along with other lawyers for the poor. "We're afraid needy people aren't getting welfare when they need it."
But city officials say that many people find jobs and that those who need welfare get it. Even those who leave the centers without jobs or welfare often go home with food stamps and Medicaid that will help stabilize their lives while they search for work, city officials say.
Once applicants learn that they must show proof of a daily job search before obtaining welfare, and once they hear that welfare recipients must sweep streets or answer telephones in exchange for their benefits, many decide they would rather struggle on their own, city officials say.
"More people are successfully finding jobs and making other choices than before," said Mr. Hoover, who worked as a welfare administrator in Wisconsin, which reduced the number of welfare applications with a similar strategy. "We feel that families are going to benefit from this."
While the debate between city officials and advocates for the poor remains unresolved, welfare applicants continue to find a dizzying new world behind the dingy cement walls of the Greenwood Job Center in Brooklyn.
The caseworkers call themselves financial planners. And the applicants, called job seekers, watch videos describing job openings at nursing homes, restaurants and drug stores as they wait in pink and gray plastic chairs for their interviews.
"Welfare is time limited," signs on the walls say in a reminder to all who come. "A job is your future."
In the old days, people filled out welfare applications on the first visit and waited at home until the formal eligibility interview, which was scheduled for about five days later. Today, job seekers cannot fill out applications until the second visit, and they must search for work before the eligibility interview and during the month or so while the application is assessed.
All the while, financial planners help clients explore "alternatives for independence," telling mothers to seek child support, urging former soldiers to apply for veterans benefits, requiring laid-off workers to file for unemployment benefits and assessing whether relatives or churches can help them.
Damaris Ferrer, 22, her pregnant belly bulging beneath her T-shirt, was told to consider relying on her mother, who has supported her with a $537 monthly Social Security check since Ms. Ferrer left her job as cashier in October. After learning about the strict job search requirements, Ms. Ferrer decided to do just that, at least until the baby is born and she can find another job.
"I was hoping for some help," she said last week. "But I'm just going to stay with my mother until she throws me out."
Valerie Rodriguez, an 18-year-old mother, said she also left Greenwood without being allowed to apply for welfare, food stamps or health insurance last week. It was her second visit, she said, and she was told to come back for a third.
But her brother, a waiter who supports Ms. Rodriguez and her 2-year-old son with his $180 weekly check while she studies for her high school equivalency exam, decided it would be easier for him to find a second job than for his sister to get public assistance.
"We've been struggling on our own for all this time," said Ms. Rodgriguez, her ponytail swinging and her nose-ring sparkling as she shrugged away the worry in her older brother's eyes. "I guess we'll just keep struggling."
In the eyes of city officials, they are success stories, women who considered their options and chose to avoid the culture of dependency. Advocates for the poor, however, question whether people who find it too cumbersome to apply for help can be truly considered successes.
Ms. Rodriguez, for instance, who never applied for free health insurance, plans to rely on Tylenol and prayer since she lacks a job or Medicaid to cover her medical expenses.
But city officials emphasize that poor people will get needed services if they agree to abide by the new guidelines, and emergencies will be addressed immediately. And some welfare applicants support the city's strategy, including Franklin Conde, 40, who is unemployed and now searching for work under the new strict rules.
"This will motivate you," said Mr. Conde, who applied for welfare after being unable to find work as an engineer's assistant. "Whoever established this program is on the right track."
Welfare specialists say there is little research to dispute or support that contention, and say city officials should track people who opt not to apply for welfare to determine whether they find jobs or languish in poverty. City officials say they plan to do that, but they have been reluctant in the past to track people who have left the welfare rolls.
Without careful research, the welfare specialists say, it will be difficult to determine whether the plan empowers the poor or makes desperate lives more miserable.
"You have to be open to the possibility that the city is right, that welfare is bad, that dependency breeds more dependency and robs people of self-sufficiency," said Gordon Berlin, a senior vice president of the Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation, a nonprofit group that evaluates the impact of welfare policy.
"But you also have to be open to the idea that they're wrong," said Mr. Berlin, who was responsible for budget and policy at the Human Resources Administration in the late 1980's. "And if they are, people will have less income, less support, less stable housing. If they are really stretched thin, then children and families can get hurt."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Valerie Rodriguez, 18, has visited a Brooklyn job center twice without being allowed to apply for welfare benefits. Her son Justin is 2. (Linda Rosier for The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; LABOR INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); HUMAN RESOURCES (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); SWARNS, RACHEL L RUDY GIULIANI (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1998



568 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: Contract Offers Job Security For 50,000 In Hospitals

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Thirty-five private hospitals and nursing homes in New York City reached a tentative agreement yesterday that provides far-reaching job-security provisions for 50,000 workers despite the wrenching upheaval in the city's health-care industry.
At a time when many experts are estimating that New York's hospitals have to cut their work force by 15 percent over the next five years, the agreement reduces pressures for layoffs by tapping the union's pension plan to finance an unusual early retirement program. 
 The 40-month contract, negotiated by 1199, the National Health and Human Service Employees Union, provides for diverting more than $135 million from the union's overfunded pension plan to finance the early retirements -- most payments would be $25,000 in cash -- to encourage at least 3,000 hospital workers to retire early.
This early retirement plan was made possible, both sides acknowledged, by the Wall Street boom, which fattened the pension plan's assets, and by some unusual bargaining.
Dennis Rivera, 1199's president, announced the contract yesterday after two days of nonstop negotiations with the League of Voluntary Hospitals, a group of 35 private nonprofit institutions including Beth Israel, Montefiore, Mount Sinai, St. Luke's-Roosevelt and St. Vincent's hospitals.
As in the current contract, the new agreement virtually bars layoffs of workers hired before Sept. 17, 1992, saying they can be laid off only if the institution closes or is in perilous financial condition. Union officials estimate that the rule applies to 75 percent of the union's workers at the hospitals.
If workers hired after that date are laid off, they are to receive, with the help of unemployment insurance, 80 percent of their pay for two years -- up from one year in the current contract. In addition, they are given the right to the first job opening for which they are qualified at any of the 35 institutions.
"This contract will offer virtual job security," said Mr. Rivera, who said that the contract provides no-layoff guarantees to more employees than any other multi-employer contract in the nation. He predicted that if any less experienced workers were laid off, almost all could find other jobs in league institutions within two years.
Both sides said the agreement would enable the hospitals to reduce employment gradually, and thus become more efficient and keep costs for patients under control.
After the negotiations were completed at 10:30 yesterday morning, Mr. Rivera was visibly exhausted in a news conference at 1199's headquarters on West 43d Street, saying at one point that he needed to sit down. The union's 150-member negotiating committee unanimously approved the agreement yesterday, and workers are to vote on it over the next two weeks.
In announcing details of the agreement, Mr. Rivera said he was calling off plans for the 50,000 workers to go on strike on June 30, the day their current contract expires.
The new contract covers laundry, housekeeping and food workers, custodial staff and X-ray and laboratory technicians -- as a group they average $30,000 a year in wages. The contract provides for a 3 percent raise for the first year, an $1,800 lump sum payment in the second year and a 3 percent raise over the contract's last 16 months.
Appearing beside Mr. Rivera at the news conference, Bruce McIver, president of the hospitals league, said: "Neither of us got everything we wanted. There was a lot of compromise." Nonetheless, the hospitals obtained several important concessions, including a lump-sum payment rather than a wage increase in the second year.
The Wall Street boom has increased the pension fund's assets, which are invested in stocks and bonds, to $5.3 billion from $3 billion in recent years, leaving it enough money to pay pension obligations even if employers stopped contributing for five years. Thanks to such overfunding, the contract gives the health-care institutions more than $100 million in savings in their pension contributions. The hospitals will not have to contribute to the pension fund for 10 months, and during the rest of the contract will pay 6.25 percent of payroll in pension contributions, down from 6.75 percent.
Mr. McIver insisted that the contract was not overly generous and would not create an undue strain on the hospitals. "A 6 percent wage increase over 40 months isn't bad," he said.
Mr. Rivera said he was proudest of the contract's job-security provisions, predicting that other health-care unions around the nation would seek to match them. He noted that for the first time, part-time workers hired before Sept. 17, 1992, would be covered by the strong no-layoff language.
"Management told us for months that it needed to lay off thousands of our members, that the employment-security provisions in our old contract could not stand," Mr. Rivera said. "In fact, with this contract, we have won improved security guarantees, the biggest early retirement package in our history, as well as increases in wages and health coverage."
Under the new contract, the workers will no longer have to make co-payments or any other payment to their dental plan. They already do not have any out-of-pocket expenses for basic health coverage.
The agreement provides for the hospitals and nursing homes to contribute a total of $60 million a year to a retraining and job security fund, which will be used to retrain laid-off workers and pay them the equivalent of 80 percent of their wages for two years. That $60 million will come largely from money the hospitals save on pension contributions.
The job security fund, although at far smaller levels, was first set up in the contract negotiated in 1992, while the no-layoff provisions were first negotiated in the 1994 contract.
In an interview, Mr. Rivera said that in negotiations, he had originally pushed to extend the no-layoff clause to more workers while management had sought to reduce the coverage. He said he dropped his demand when management insisted that in exchange it be given the right to lay off experienced workers when hospitals merge.
Under the new early-retirement program, workers 62 years old with 20 years on the job will be entitled to a full pension, while under the current contract they need 25 years. As further incentive, workers 62 years old with 20 years on the job, or 65 with 5 years on the job, are being offered not just a full pension but also a $25,000 one-time payment and health insurance until they qualify for Medicare,
Workers as young as 55 would be offered $25,000 payments and varying combinations of health-care and pension coverage to accept early retirement. Negotiators estimated all these measures would cost $135 million to $150 million and would persuade 3,000 to 3,700 workers to retire early.
The union made no headway toward one of its chief goals, a promise from the hospitals not to fight its effort to unionize thousands of workers at the hospitals' satellite clinics throughout the metropolitan area.
Negotiators for both sides acknowledged that they felt considerable pressure to reach an agreement before the June 30 contract expiration. Hospital executives wanted to avoid the burden of running their institutions during a strike. Union officials feared that some hospitals might order large-scale layoffs of longtime workers once the present contract expired and left them without protection against layoffs.
Negotiations started in July, when Mr. Rivera urged management to reopen the current four-year contract almost a year before it expired. At that time, he proposed using pension plan money to pay for early retirements. His hope was that if thousands of workers took early retirement, no layoffs would be needed.
Those talks broke off in September, but many of the ideas that had been discussed were incorporated in the new agreement.
Formal negotiations were resumed on March 24, but they did not start in earnest until Memorial Day weekend, when they began holding daily bargaining sessions. They negotiated either at the Holiday Inn Crowne Plaza at 48th Street and Broadway or, just across the street, at the offices of the hospitals' law firm, Proskauer Rose.
The new agreement caps an eventful and in many ways successful year for 1199 and for Mr. Rivera. In January, 1199 merged with the 1.1 million-member Service Employees International Union. At that time, it was also combined with a separate 30,000-member service employees' local, pushing 1199's membership to 150,000 and making it New York City's largest union.
And last year Mr. Rivera enlisted Vice President Al Gore in a successful effort to obtain $1.25 billion in Federal aid to help retrain New York hospital workers and help the state's hospitals adapt to the upheaval caused by managed care. Mr. Gore and other Federal officials have been attentive to some of Mr. Rivera's wishes because of the size of his union and its effectiveness in elections and Democratic primaries.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dennis Rivera, left, the union head, and Bruce McIver, head of the hospitals league, announced the deal yesterday. (J. Emilio Flores/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Members of 1199, the National Health and Human Service Employees Union, attended the announcement of a tentative hospital contract yesterday. A ratification vote by the membership is scheduled over two weeks. (J. Emilio Flores/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICE EMPLOYEES UNION

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICE EMPLOYEES UNION

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS HOSPITALS (91%); LAYOFFS (91%); EARLY RETIREMENT (91%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); NURSING HOMES (89%); CLOSINGS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN DENNIS RIVERA (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1998



569 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Small Programs Fall Victim to Budget Battle in City Hall

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN 

 BODY:
The room was muggy, but the window air-conditioner had been shut off so no one would miss a word. For five counselors who helped tenants navigate the city's housing courts, it was their turn to be shell-shocked. They sat nearly motionless as Larry Wood, their boss, told them they were being laid off because of a budget brawl at City Hall.
"Nonprofit organizations always live hand to mouth," Mr. Wood said apologetically. "But I didn't expect to be wiped out." 
 Mr. Wood is the chairman of the City-Wide Task Force on Housing Court, a private group established in 1981 that has an annual budget of $320,000. The counselors, who each make about $26,000 a year, had provided assistance at tables set up in housing courts in each borough since 1981. Now the tables are vacant and people who call the group's advice line get a recording saying that it cannot offer help "due to a loss of funds."
The City Council had agreed to give the group $263,000 -- about 82 percent of its budget. But Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has taken aim at $251 million in spending, deriding it as pork, and has vowed not to spend any of that money.
When the Mayor announced on Tuesday that he would not honor a budget that the City Council had adopted and then maintained over his attempts to veto it, he declared, "This is not going to really hurt many people, except the politicians who run the City Council."
By week's end, however, charitable groups throughout the city said they had been forced to scale back their plans and cut their staffs after deciding they had little chance of receiving the money promised by the City Council when the new budget year begins on July 1.
The dispute is over seventh-tenths of 1 percent of the $34 billion municipal budget. And caught up in the power struggle between the Council and the Mayor are Little League teams, health-care support services, advocacy organizations and other nonprofit groups that depend either largely or entirely on city money.
"Some of these groups are so small that what the Mayor calls 'pork' is going to endanger entire programs and entire organizations very quickly," said Fran Barrett, executive director of Community Resource Exchange, which helps nonprofit agencies. "People are fearful that the work they have been doing for years is about to disappear in a political tussle."
The problem for these groups is that although the Council voted overwhelmingly last week to override the Mayor's vetoes of spending he considered irresponsible, he has declared that he still will not spend the money. The Council plans to take the Mayor to court.
"We will utilize the law to prevent him from trying to carry out all three branches of government by himself," the Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, said.
In the meantime, a champion Little League team in the Bronx will not get a van to travel to games.
In Queens, members of the Rudy Hepatitis C Support Group (named not for the Mayor but for a man who succumbed to the disease) were proud of a new educational video they had obtained on the dangers of tattooing and body piercing. But the group's leaders say that now they will not have the cab fare they need to take the video around to schools, and they are too sick to take the subway.
And in Manhattan, the Roosevelt Island Disabled Association -- whose members have survived polio and strokes, gunshots and multiple sclerosis -- is cutting back its summer outings from three to one, since hiring a bus equipped with a wheelchair lift costs $400 for each trip. That means no trip to Coney Island or the New York Botanical Garden this year, the association says. The group had hoped to receive $3,500 from the city, roughly half its annual budget.
The Mayor's office said that dire predictions about the financial health of the nonprofit groups had proved unwarranted when they had been raised by Mr. Giuliani's critics in previous budget fights. "Many advocates and politicians cried wolf, yet today we have a safer, cleaner city than we've had in decades," said Deputy Mayor Randy M. Mastro. "We aim to continue that progress, yet at the same time insure that the city lives within its means."
Mr. Mastro added that the Mayor's proposed budget included record spending for libraries, day care and summer jobs for youth. "We're only talking about the Council adding on more money," Mr. Mastro said.
Charitable groups, however say they foresee calamity this year for two reasons. Many of them also lost money when Gov. George E. Pataki vetoed 1,000 items from the state budget in April. Among them was financing for the Legal Aid Society, which had been holding open several vacancies for lawyers until the fiscal year began, but now will not fill those slots. Patricia A. Bath, a spokeswoman for Legal Aid, said the group expected to lose at least $2 million because of the budget dispute.
Among those who would lose representation are elderly people whose benefits have been mistakenly cut off.
"You don't see these people standing outside your office or outside City Hall," Ms. Bath said. "They're in their apartments, doing without medicine or telephone service or food."
The second reason for dismay among nonprofit leaders is the uncertainty about financing, given the likely court fight. They explained that even under less volatile circumstances, money from the city for a fiscal year beginning in July often does not arrive until fall or early winter because of the time it takes for contracts to be prepared and approved by the Mayor's office. Many of the groups get loans to meet their payroll and other expenses in the meantime. But without an assurance that the city money will actually be forthcoming, lenders may be reluctant, leaders of the organizations say.
"Creditors will be concerned about whether we're going to get the contract, and whether it will be tied up in protracted litigation," said Rick Jones, the deputy director of Neighborhood Defender Service, a Harlem group that provides legal services to 2,500 families a year. If the budget dispute is not resolved, Mr. Jones said, the service will lose $2 million of its $2.5 million budget and may close its doors next month.
The mood was just as grim at the Women's Prison Association and Home Inc., a 155-year-old group that helps addicted convicts and their children. "We have two weeks to decide whether to close programs or lay off staff," said Ann L. Jacobs, the executive director. "We tightened our belt when there was a fiscal problem in the city. But now we're living like this in economically abundant times."
Still, there are groups that are taking a hopeful approach and mounting quiet lobbying campaigns. Denise K. Taylor, director of the Rhinelander Children's Center of the Children's Aid Society, spent a day writing a letter to the Mayor on behalf of a Saturday program for deaf and hard-of-hearing children who, she wrote, "would otherwise be isolated in their community on weekends."
The weeks ahead will be a time of grim choices, group leaders say. A dinner program for the elderly, held each weeknight at the cafeteria of Public School 134 on the Lower East Side, is budgeted to feed 150 people a day. But the program has become so popular that often more people than that show up to eat and to watch a video. Officials of Community Food Resource Center, which runs the program, had counted on city money to close the gap.
One regular, Susan F. Lee, said she had voted for Mr. Giuliani. "He has done a lot of good things," said Mrs. Lee, 73, a retired secretary. "Now we're disappointed, and we're scared."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RESOURCE EXCHANGE (51%); CITY COUNCIL (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY ; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (93%); CITIES (92%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VETO (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CHARITIES (76%); LAYOFFS (71%); YOUTH SPORTS (61%); 

PERSON: ALLEN, MIKE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



570 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Stop Playing by China's Rules

BYLINE: By Robert Kagan and William Kristol; Robert Kagan is a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. William Kristol is editor and publisher of the Weekly Standard.

 BODY:
In defending his China policy, President Clinton says America faces a stark choice: engage China as his Administration has done or isolate it. But that is a false choice.
No one, contrary to the President's recent assertion, is "seeking to isolate China." For example, the Administration's critics do not oppose any summit that advances America's overall strategic and moral interests. The problem with Mr. Clinton's policy is that it undermines those interests, because his brand of engagement is failing. 
 The Administration has argued, for instance, that giving satellites, supercomputers and other technology to China would encourage it to stop selling weapons of mass destruction and the missiles to deliver them. But in the last six months, China has been caught peddling nuclear-weapons-related material to Iran. And in recent years, China made missile and nuclear weapons technology available to Pakistan, inviting India's nuclear test.
The Clinton Administration has argued that once the United States stopped challenging China's human rights record and withdrew the threat of economic sanctions, China would ease repression at home. In fact, the Chinese Government has responded by exiling a couple of prominent dissidents and arresting many others -- in sum, by maintaining one of the world's most repressive regimes.
The Administration says its brand of engagement has fostered stability in Asia. Why, then, has China fired missiles off the coast of Taiwan, seized islands in the South China Sea and continued to increase its defense spending at an alarming rate?
Finally, to avoid offending Chinese sensibilities, the White House invents excuses for indefensible practices like forced abortion and religious repression. The Administration has always argued that its policy of engagement will make China more like us. In fact, it is making us more like them.
Last year, when it was reported that the Chinese Government tried to subvert American elections, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright declared there would be grave consequences if the story was substantiated. It was, but there have been no consequences. If any country other than China were involved, the summit would be postponed. But the President is keeping his appointment in Beijing. Indeed he pretends he has no choice but to be greeted at Tiananmen Square.
Mr. Clinton now describes our relationship with China as a "strategic partnership" and insists China responds best to incentives. But placating its Government at every turn is not the answer. The Chinese leadership must know that when it breaks its promises -- by aiding Pakistan's and Iran's nuclear weapons programs -- it will be punished with sanctions, including, for instance, cutting off trade with corporations known to be controlled by China's military. A year ago, in a memorandum to the State Department, Mr. Clinton's own Arms Control and Disarmament Agency pointed out: "The only time we have gotten movement from the Chinese on missile proliferation has been in the face of a penalty being imposed. Carrots have gotten us nothing."
The United States must make it clear in both word and deed that we will contain China's strategic ambitions. We should begin by reversing the decline in our military strength. Chinese leaders interpret America's shrinking defense budgets and our uncertain response to crises in the Persian Gulf and elsewhere as a sign of weakening resolve. Nor could it have escaped the notice of Beijing that when the President sent aircraft carriers to the gulf earlier this year, none were left in the East Asian theater.
Beijing evidently hopes to drive a wedge between the United States and its Asian allies. That is why the Chinese Government insisted that President Clinton not visit Japan, South Korea and Taiwan before or after the summit. But they are our true strategic partners in Asia and deserve the reassurance of a visit by an American President.
Mr. Clinton seems determined to cast his critics as backward-looking isolationists spoiling for a new cold war. In fact, the Clinton Administration's current policy invites Chinese adventurism abroad and repression at home. At the end of this bloody century, we all should have learned that appeasement, even when disguised as engagement, doesn't work.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Natasha Tibbott)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); INDIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (74%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); INDIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (74%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ARMS TRADE (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (74%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); COASTAL AREAS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (70%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (55%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KRISTOL, WILLIAM; KAGAN, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1998



571 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

YEN RESUMES DECLINE. The yen fell 1.5 percent after Japan failed to propose dramatic new economic stimulants during a weekend meeting of the richest industrialized nations. The dollar rose to 138.16 yen in New York from 136.10.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese Yen to the Dollar, since January 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



572 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasury Securities Prices Are Helped by Increase in Dollar

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities were mixed yesterday, supported by a rising dollar.
A meeting of the seven industrial nations over the weekend failed to produce any new measures to bolster Japan's ailing economy, thus strengthening the United States dollar yesterday against the yen. 
 A strong dollar makes investments like United States Treasury securities more attractive to foreign investors, not only for the yield, but also for the potential of additional gains through currency translation.
Bill Gamba, senior vice president and manager of bond trading at Cowen & Company, said yesterday's trading session was mostly dollar driven, but with a little undertone of cautiousness. "I think the market was expecting more out of the G-7 meeting, and really there wasn't anything new or concrete to come out of it that would stimulate the Japanese economy and reform its ailing banking system," he said.
The 30-year bond rose 2/32, to 106 20/32. The bond's yield was unchanged at 5.66 percent.
Mr. Gamba believes the market will focus today on the two-year note auction. "The two-year notes will have little problem being absorbed by the market," he said. "The key here is what is happening overseas."
Analysts agree that the lack of economic reports this week will mean that bond market participants will focus on overseas events, the dollar and stock market activity.
Treasuries traded well yesterday because Asian stock markets had slumped and investors sought the relative safety of United States investments.
The Treasury will sell $23 billion in two-year and five-year notes this week, with the two-year issue to be sold today and the five-year note tomorrow. In when-issued trading, the two-year maturity was being offered late yesterday at a price to yield 5.47 percent and the five-year note at a price to yield 5.46 percent.
Early talk in the market is that yields may need to increase on the two-year issue to attract investor interest. After this sale, the Treasury will offer five-year notes on a quarterly basis instead of monthly. Yesterday's auctions of the three-month bill came in at an average rate of 4.99 percent, down from 5.01 percent a week ago, while the rate for a six-month maturity was 5.12 percent, up from 5.065 percent. About $4.5 billion in corporate bonds are expected to be issued this week, but demand has eased somewhat because of the concern that the Asian economic turmoil could hurt the United States economy and corporate earnings.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury sale of new three-month and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills in percent at weekly auction from DATE 1 to DATE 2. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 
Table: (000 omitted in dollar figures)

	 	 	 	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.739	97.412	Discounted Rate	4.99%	5.12%	Coupon Yield	5.12%	5.33%	High Price	98.737	97.412	Discounted Rate	4.96%	5.12%	Coupon Yield	5.13%	5.33%	Low Price	98.744	97.419	Discounted Rate	4.97%	5.11%	Coupon Yield	5.10%	5.31%	Accepted at low price	39%	97%	Total applied for	$36,796,571	$32,963,422	Accepted	$9,166,002	$11,868,522	Noncompetitive	$1,229,542	$1,084,692	

Both issues are dated June 25, 1998. The three-month bills mature on Sept. 24, 1998, and the six-month mature on Dec. 24, 1998.

 
 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COWN (NASDAQ) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (71%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); 

COMPANY: COWEN GROUP INC (71%); PRICES OF TREASURY (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRICES OF TREASURY (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; GOVERNMENT BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (94%); BONDS (94%); US DOLLAR (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); COMPANY EARNINGS (65%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT BILL GAMBA (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



573 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Bouafle Journal;
Age-Old Curse of Slavery Alive in the Ivory Coast

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: BOUAFLE, Ivory Coast

 BODY:
Ibrahim Diarra had no idea what city he was in when he straggled into the courtyard of the elderly man from his native Mali recently.
The man offered Mr. Diarra, 23, and three teen-age friends shelter after their escape from a nightmare. 
 Wet from the rain, exhausted and famished, all he knew was that he had just spent four months working on a plantation somewhere in Ivory Coast in a job that bore a strong resemblance to slavery and that on this morning, after his second attempt to get away, he was free.
Throughout his bondage, Mr. Diarra said, he was sent out at daybreak each morning, seven days a week, to work fields planted high with corn and cotton.
Under the stern gaze of an overseer, he and other workers there had to weed row after row of the crops planted in the dark, rich soil with their simple hoes and carry countless sacks of harvested crops the three miles back to the farmhouse. When they were thirsty they had to fetch water from a distant well.
The only break came in the evenings, when they were allowed to return to their camp for the only meal of the day -- invariably a thin corn porridge -- and then were locked inside their mud-walled pillbox shelter, where they were kept under guard until sunrise.
"I once told the boss I couldn't do this work anymore," Mr. Diarra said, "and I fled the next day. But they quickly caught me, stripped me naked, tied my hands and made me sit in the open under the sun all day. Some of the others who tried to escape were whipped in front of the rest of us until they bled badly."
Mr. Diarra and his three friends, also from Mali, constitute merely the tip of an iceberg of thousands of coerced migrant laborers, many of them children, in this overwhelmingly agricultural country. As escapees who found someone from their homeland instead of being snared in the web of overseers, bounty hunters and informers, they count among the luckiest ones.
Theirs is a tale as old as the ages in an Africa of abundant, hard-to-work land and sparse labor -- seemingly immutable realities that fed an indigenous slave trade long before the arrival of the first Europeans. But it is also a near-universal phenomenon and has been seen from the sugar estates of the Florida Everglades and the Dominican Republic to the cotton-bearing loam of the Mississippi Delta.
The ruses that are used to lure and retain the workers from desperately poor hinterlands of neighboring countries like Mali and Burkina Faso are just as tried and true.
Like thousands of other Malians, Mr. Diarra said he was recruited to do farm work in Ivory Coast by an unscrupulous countryman back home who promised him $250 for a year's work -- a fortune for many Malians -- and room and board on a plantation.
He was transported across the border by truck at night. He realized he had been duped when he reached the northern Ivorian town of Korhogo and overheard a negotiation between the transporter and a plantation owner in which he and his fellow travelers were effectively sold for the equivalent of about $30 each.
"People have always told me there was a lot of money to be made in Ivory Coast," Mr. Diarra said. "But as soon as we reached the plantation, we were locked up and placed under guard. We knew right away that it was a trap."
The Ivory Coast's independence movement gained momentum in the 1940's and 1950's as a reaction against the forced labor imposed by French colonialists bent on building a cash-crop economy based on cocoa and coffee here.
But today, the wealth of this country, West Africa's most prosperous, rests to a large extent on the backs of poorly paid immigrants whose labor has helped make the Ivory Coast an agricultural giant.
"I've found plantations here where the owners keep 45 children locked in a single room from dusk till dawn, with the only provision for a toilet being a hole in the wall," said Fassiriman Dembele, the Malian consul to Ivory Coast. His recent work traveling to towns like Bouafle in the central Ivorian countryside has brought public attention to the plight of migrant workers from his country for the first time. The embassy will help Mr. Diarra go home.
"We have two million Malians living in Ivory Coast," he said, "working in every sector of the economy, including tens of thousands of farm workers. The Government cannot afford to admit the extent of the problem, so they close their eyes. If all of these workers went home, they could no longer produce crops here."
An official of the Ivory Coast Ministry of Social Protection, Mama Fofana Kone, said her Government had learned of the plight of Malian migrant workers only from recent press reports and had begun an investigation. "With these kind of charges, we must verify the information ourselves," she said. "Until then we cannot make any declarations."
From the vantage point of Mr. Dembele, no better place to begin an inquiry exists than in his office, where a dozen or more ragged plantation escapees, most of them children, arrive almost every day seeking shelter or help in returning home.
"I made a bad mistake in coming here," said Souleymane Konate, a shy 12-year-old laborer with downcast eyes who had just reached Mr. Dembele's office at the Malian Embassy the other day. "But my parents couldn't clothe me anymore, and there was nowhere to go to school in our village. I had no choice but to look for work."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A youth from Mali standing in the village near Bouafle, Ivory Coast, where he has been forced to work as a slave on a corn plantation since he was tricked into going there by promises of work, housing and pay. (Robert Grossman for The New York Times)
 
Map of Ivory Coast showing location of Bouafle: Migrants from Mali work in towns like Bouafle, some as slaves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COTE D'IVOIRE (96%); MALI (94%); BURKINA FASO (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IVORY COAST; MALI; BURKINA FASO; COTE D'IVOIRE (96%); MALI (94%); BURKINA FASO (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); AFRICA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SLAVERY; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; AGRICULTURE; MIGRANT LABOR; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES FOREIGN LABOR (89%); FARM LABOR (89%); SLAVERY (89%); MIGRANT WORKERS (89%); REFUGEES (66%); IMMIGRATION (62%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W IBRAHIM DIARRA (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



574 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 148 words

HEADLINE: Looking to Long Term May Hurt G.M. Workers

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Charles H. Fine's argument (Op-Ed, June 20) that the United Automobile Workers, rather than shutting down General Motors, "would be better off considering how it might thrive in the long term, given the realities of the automotive industry" is all too familiar to union and nonunion workers who have lost jobs to the global economy. 
 What Mr. Fine refuses to recognize is that these people are fighting for their existence. Taking the long-term view is something that needs to be done, but industry's long-term view never gets beyond Wall Street.
Being competitive is easy: get people who will design cars that people will buy. Selling off parts of businesses and laying off thousands of workers do not help to design a better car. All those things do is increase the short-term profit margin for stockholders.
 
JOE TIERNO
Utica, N.Y., June 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: UTICA, NY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS; GENERAL MOTORS CORP GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS; GENERAL MOTORS CORP UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); UTICA, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: FINE, CHARLES H; TIERNO, JOE CHARLES H FINE (80%); OP-ED JUNE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



575 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Big Bank Overcomes Its Scandals

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
A Variety headline might offer this take on the Bankers Trust Corporation: Banking's Bad Boys Bounce Back.
Having survived a series of financial scandals that tarnished the vaunted trading house's reputation and tore into its bottom line in recent years, Bankers Trust is refashioning itself as investment banker to the nation's -- indeed, the world's -- smaller, fast-growth companies. 
 Already, earnings have rebounded. But it remains to be seen whether this strategy will give the New York bank the heft it needs to go it alone on Wall Street and avoid becoming takeover bait.
"We are proponents of the idea that bigger is not necessarily better," said Frank N. Newman, who became the bank's chief executive nearly three years ago as the company began recovering from the trading scandals. "We're trying to find markets where we can add value."
Mr. Newman said Bankers Trust, currently the country's seventh-largest bank, had no intention of trying to compete with larger rivals like Goldman, Sachs & Company, Merrill Lynch & Company, or Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company for the juiciest spoils of Wall Street: stock and bond underwritings and fees gleaned from mergers-and-acquisition advice for the biggest corporations in the world.
Instead, the bank is focusing its efforts on providing these services to smaller companies in fields like high technology, health care, the media and telecommunications, building on its solid franchise as a junk-bond underwriter. And Bankers Trust also sees itself as an aggressive competitor in emerging markets like Asia and in an economically consolidating Europe, where it believes its expertise in local markets gives it an edge.
To these ends, Mr. Newman has led Bankers Trust on an acquisition spree, scooping up the mergers boutique Wolfensohn & Company in 1996 and the brokerage firm BT Alex. Brown Inc. last year, to give the bank the firepower it needs to provide financial advice and stock underwriting for up-and-coming companies. The bank proudly points to a $1.3 billion equity offering it co-led in March for the Chancellor Media Corporation, a radio broadcasting concern, as evidence of its newfound underwriting muscle. It also cites recent deals it has done for Channel Communications, a broadcasting concern, and Fred Meyer Inc., which operates supermarkets in the Northwest.
But some analysts worry that all the expertise Bankers Trust has been buying is really just a grab bag of disparate businesses incapable of steering it through the competitive storms swirling around Wall Street.
Alex. Brown appears to be a good fit, sharply bolstering the bank's revenue and profits from investment banking and immediately making it a player in the financing of high-tech companies, where Alex. Brown had built a stellar reputation.
But the $200 million Wolfensohn acquisition is largely viewed on Wall Street as something of a bust. Bankers Trust was able to boast about snagging Paul Volcker, the Wolfensohn chairman and former Federal Reserve chairman, but the purchase has yet to substantially advance the bank's position in the mergers-and-acquisitions game.
"I think Bankers Trust still has a long way to go to realize the value of its franchise," said Raphael Soifer, an analyst with Brown Brothers Harriman Inc. "If the markets cooperate, we should see more benefits from their recent acquisitions. If the markets sour, they could have fairly tough sledding."
Other problems loom that could weaken Bankers Trust's bottom line and make it a more tempting takeover target. Relative to its size, it is among the most exposed of American banks in Asia -- and, as Asia's economic crisis has deepened recently, the specter of escalating losses there could become a reality when Bankers Trust reports second-quarter earnings next month.
Bankers Trust's stock closed yesterday at $112.125, well below its 52-week high of $136.3125.
While Bankers Trust may be shrewd in trying to position itself as the premier financier to growth companies, it will ultimately have to contend with bigger investment banks that will move in for a piece of the action if it proves to be profitable enough. The big houses have already started to threaten Bankers Trust in junk bonds.
"You're never immune to competition," said Yves C. de Balmann, Bankers Trust co-head of investment banking. "In the target markets in which we have decided to play we are all things to those people because we are not trying to be all things to all people. And in our target markets I will compete head-on with anybody."
Whatever Bankers Trust's future, it is clearly a different company than it was just a few years ago.
Bankers Trust has always been one of the most innovative banks in the country, and by the early 1990's, it had earned a reputation as one of the ablest purveyors of complex financial products known as derivatives. The bulk of the company's profits came from derivatives trading, but unseemly sales tactics and the widespread perception that the bank was ruthless and predatory caused Bankers Trust to run afoul of clients, regulators, and investors. That paved the way for the arrival of Mr. Newman, a former Treasury Department official and BankAmerica executive, whose reputation for circumspection helped sanitize Bankers Trust's image.
Mr. Newman has sharply curtailed the bank's trading as he has expanded the investment-banking business. That has touched off a certain amount of upheaval and staff departures at the bank, as many on the trading desks have felt slighted. Mr. Newman acknowledged the turmoil, but said the changes were necessary.
Trading "was a terrific business, but the ratios were wrong and we had to be a more balanced company," Mr. Newman said.
In 1993, at the height of its derivatives prowess, Bankers Trust earned $1.1 billion, about 70 percent of which came from trading and sales. Profits plunged to $686 million in 1994 and $311 million in 1995 as the derivatives scandals and trading losses took their toll. But net income recovered sharply in 1996 and rose to $866 million last year, with trading and sales accounting for only 22 percent of that pile. Investment banking kicked in 70 percent of the profits last year.
"Under Newman, this company has done a lot to become more focused and better managed," said David Berry, an analyst with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. "On the other hand, they're not earning the kinds of returns they did before the derivatives debacle. But analysts and investors were never really comfortable with the risks they took in those days either."
But Mr. Berry, like many other Bankers Trust observers, is waiting to pass final judgment on the company.
"Does Bankers Trust really have a long-term strategy?" Mr. Berry asked. "Do they have something in place that will vault them into the 21st century? I'm not sure yet."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (82%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (62%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANKERS TRUST CO (NYC) BANKERS TRUST CORP (94%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (84%); CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (82%); ALEX BROWN INC (81%); WOLFENSOHN & CO (64%); FRED MEYER INC (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANKERS TRUST CO (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; BANKS AND BANKING CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SCANDALS (90%); BONDS (90%); MERGERS (89%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (75%); STOCK OFFERINGS (70%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (60%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (60%); EXECUTIVES (54%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, FRANK N; O'BRIEN, TIMOTHY L MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



576 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: Bay View Moves to Delay PSB Acquisition

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: SAN MATEO, Calif., June 22

 BODY:
The Bay View Capital Corporation, a California savings and loan institution, delayed its $153 million acquisition of the PSB Lending Corporation after learning that new Federal rules may prohibit the transaction.
Bay View said it had "placed on hold" its purchase of the home equity lender because "Federal banking regulatory agencies are considering new guidelines" that may limit insured financial institutions' holdings of home loans that are a high percentage of the property's value. 
 Earlier this month, it said it would buy PSB lending for $153 million in stock and cash, plus as much as $147 million for future profits.
"We need to sit there and hold up and see what the guidelines are going to be," said Edward H. Sondker, chief executive of Bay View. He would not say which agencies were involved or if they included the Office of Thrift Supervision, Bay View's primary regulator.
Loans for more than 100 percent of a home's value are increasingly popular. The loans may be made for as much as 125 percent of a house's value, and the interest rate is higher than a conventional mortgage.
PSB, a unit of the Dallas-based Pacific Southwest Bank, specializes in highly leveraged home equity loans, or loans that are a high percentage of the value of the borrower's home.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNFG (NASDAQ) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); TEXAS, USA (51%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: PSB LENDING CORP; BAY VIEW CAPITAL CORP FIRST NIAGARA FINANCIAL GROUP INC (93%); PACIFIC SOUTHWEST BANK FSB (55%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (56%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PSB LENDING CORP; BAY VIEW CAPITAL CORP OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (56%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); TEXAS, USA (51%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (90%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); EXECUTIVES (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



577 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Challenges Inside and Out Confront OPEC

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS 

 BODY:
The lowest oil prices in 12 years have created a severe crisis for oil-producing countries both inside and outside of OPEC, and they have been struggling to reverse the decline.
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries has found itself increasingly impotent in the oil market, and as its 11 member nations prepare to meet in Vienna tomorrow, a new, loosely structured coalition has emerged, led by such big OPEC members as Saudi Arabia and Venezuela, as well as non-OPEC giants like Mexico and Norway. 
 Whether such a coalition can turn prices around remains very much open to question, however. The production cutbacks that these countries and others made in March fell far short of the amounts pledged, and oil prices, which initially jumped, ultimately gave back all their gains.
Some oil industry analysts say that the coordinated production cutbacks of these countries have kept prices from falling even lower. Moreover, a second round of cuts has been announced for July. Others, however, dismiss the current effort as doomed in the face of such compelling market factors as the slowdown in Asia, the increase in energy conservation and the development of technology that has made the discovery and extraction of oil far more efficient.
In any case, after many years of widespread cheating on production quotas by its members, the once-mighty OPEC has become virtually powerless to influence the oil market by itself. Prices have plunged more than 48 percent from a 52-week high of about $23 a barrel in October, falling below $12 in the last week. But yesterday, in anticipation of the meeting, oil prices surged $1.59, or 13.4 percent, to $13.43 a barrel, the biggest one-day gain since Jan. 22, 1991. Prices have now jumped 18 percent since hitting their low last week.
"This may be the end of the old OPEC, but a wider organization may take its place that may be more effective," said John H. Lichtblau, the chairman of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation, a Manhattan-based research group for the oil industry. He has attended OPEC meetings for the last 15 years.
"They all realize that they are in the same boat," Mr. Lichtblau said, alluding to countries like Mexico and Norway. "It's just as important to them to keep up oil prices."
While there were efforts in the 1980's to have non-OPEC countries cooperate in production cuts, the efforts had only a limited effect because some of the countries ignored their quotas when crude oil prices began to rebound.
Still, Ann-Louise Hittle, the director of crude oil research at Cambridge Energy Associates, an energy consulting group based in Cambridge, Mass., said the OPEC and non-OPEC countries "have come up with agreements to cut which are more or less sticking."
"This seems to be lasting," she said. "This could be a historic turning point."
Others, however, have strong doubts. "They have to do major surgery and up to now they have been dealing with Band-Aids," said Fareed Mohamedi, the managing director of market and country analysis for the Petroleum Finance Company Ltd., a consulting group for the oil industry in Washington. "There's not much new that has emerged."
Mr. Mohamedi noted that even though oil exporters inside and outside OPEC agreed in late March to cut oil output by a total of 1.7 million barrels a day, less than one million barrels was taken out of production. Thus, this latest effort to rein in oil supplies has raised skepticism similar to that faced by OPEC, which for years has been unable to hold its members to output quotas.
Going into the meeting there are firm commitments from eight nations for a second round of cuts totaling about 740,000 barrels a day, or about 1 percent of the 74 million barrels consumed each day in the world.
There is a wide consensus among analysts and other outside experts that a cut of at least one million barrels a day has to emerge from the meeting to keep oil prices from sliding further.
The task was not made easier when Norway, the largest exporter in Europe, said that it would not join other countries in another round of production cuts, as it had done in March.
OPEC has found it increasingly difficult to raise oil prices because of its own internal divisions. Major producers often ignored the production quotas that were set at meetings, eroding the credibility of the group.
In an effort to regain some of its influence, OPEC decided to raise its production quotas by 10 percent last November to 27.5 million barrels a day from 25 million, a move that merely acknowledged how much the members were already producing.
As oil prices began to slide in the spring, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela were each waiting for the other to act first to cut back. The standoff was broken by Mexico, which made an offer for cutbacks that brought the two major OPEC producers together in an unusual coalition that was willing to begin a round of cuts without first getting the approval of the other OPEC countries.
While some experts see the coalition as a new, more realistic approach, it has caused friction within OPEC. Some members have objected that they are not consulted but are then asked to join in an effort to cut back.
There is agreement, however, that if the OPEC members do not come up with further large cuts at the meeting, oil prices can slide further, perhaps even below $10 a barrel.
While this will benefit oil importers like Japan, the United States and Europe, it would cause deep economic pain and more political instability among the producing countries.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "On the Slide"
The price of a barrel of crude oil has fallen about 30 percent during the last year. Graph shows how the price has fallen since June 1997, to yesterday's close of $13.43 a barrel.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); AUSTRIA (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (73%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA; VENEZUELA; MEXICO; NORWAY; SAUDI ARABIA (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); AUSTRIA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRODUCTION PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



578 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Falling Oil Prices Pinch Several Producing Nations

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM 

DATELINE: LONDON, June 22

 BODY:
The recent drop in oil prices, which began in October and accelerated recently, has prompted several oil-producing countries to take some of the medicine that high oil prices once imposed on oil-guzzling countries like the United States.
In the last month, Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil producer, has quietly borrowed $2 billion from its banks to help pay for public spending programs as it prepares to reduce its budget by at least 10 percent and raise fees on Government services -- all to offset the most serious fall in oil revenues in a decade. 
 A few days ago the Oil Minister of Kuwait, another huge oil producer, warned of "a looming economic catastrophe," akin to the economic and political collapse of Indonesia, for his country and some other oil producers. The minister, Sheik Saud Nasser al-Sabah, said that unless world oil producers made drastic cuts in production, the free fall in oil prices could bring down some governments. Prices have plunged recently by more than 48 percent to an average of less than $12 a barrel, from $22 last year.
A hint of things to come may have already begun in tiny Yemen, one of the world's smallest oil producers. Beginning on Saturday, several cities exploded in riots as thousands of people protested a new round of cuts in subsidies for bread and fuel imposed by the International Monetary Fund and the Government as it struggles to make up lost income from oil exports.
The fall in oil prices prompted the 11 members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries plus Mexico to reduce production this year by 1 million barrels a day to help lift prices. But the cutbacks halted the slide in prices only briefly, and when some countries started pumping more petroleum than they had agreed to and consumption starting declining again, prices plunged anew. Now prices are lower than they were three months ago, when OPEC called its last emergency meeting. Another session begins in Vienna on Wednesday.
This time, the meeting will including several large oil-producing countries that are not members of the cartel. including Russia, Norway, Mexico and Oman.
For the OPEC members, the dimension of the crisis can be summed up in one simple statistic: Their annual oil revenues have fallen so far this year by almost a third, or nearly $50 billion.
The recent turmoil in Asia has diminished demand for oil in what used to be the fastest-growing energy market in the world.
"The need is for a large cut in oil production," said Peter Gignoux, managing director of energy futures at Smith Barney in London. He echoed a widespread view among experts that OPEC members, as well as countries like Norway, Russia and Mexico, must decide to remove far more oil from the market. perhaps as much as 2.5 million barrels a day. That would amount to a 3.4 percent cut in total world oil production, or twice the level of cuts OPEC and Mexico announced in March.
With most analysts skeptical that OPEC will agree on a such a huge cut, oil prices are likely to fall with unpredictable consequences of social unrest, rising unemployment and economic instability in countries including Algeria, Russia, Nigeria, Bahrain and Indonesia, which is already in an economic collapse.
For oil-consuming nations like the United States and Europe, the picture is just the reverse. As it stands today, these consumers are enjoying strong economic growth and the cheapest oil in a quarter century. Pierre Terzian, editor of the Paris-based Petrostrategies, noted in an interview today that when compared with the dollar's strength in 1973 -- the year OPEC began its ascent as a cartel -- today's oil prices are lower.
At the moment virtually all producers for which oil represents the lion's share of revenues are experiencing serious pain. The full impact of the falling prices is just emerging.
Russia has had to stop pumping 350,000 barrels of its daily output of 5.9 million barrels because the cost to extract and transport the oil exceeded market prices. In mid-May Russia also failed to sell Rosneft, the last large state-owned oil company. Russia's initial price tag of $2.1 billion drew no bidders because of falling oil prices. The company is now on the market for about $1.6 billion.
Russia has watched its income from oil exports, its key source of hard currency, decline by a third.
In Kuwait, even before the most recent price collapse began, the Government had anticipated a deficit in this year's budget of $5.73 billion, assuming an average oil price of $12 a barrel. With oil prices now likely to go lower, the deficit in the $16 billion budget may be far higher.
Saudi Arabia's situation is even more pressing. Unlike Kuwait, it largely spent its vast reserves during the Persian Gulf war, which cost the country some $75 billion, and it has not been able to replenish them.
"We have a tremendous awakening to a new situation," said a senior Saudi official who spoke on condition of anonymity. "We will have indirect taxation. Government spending will be squeezed."
The Government of Venezuela, the leading source of oil for the United States, so far this year has trimmed spending by $4 billion. The Finance Ministry has announced that economic growth will fall drastically from a very healthy 5.1 percent last year to an anemic 0.8 percent this year. The national currency, the bolivar, is expected to lose value against the dollar, resulting in higher unemployment and higher prices for imported goods.
Algeria, with oil representing 95 percent of its exports, stands to loose at least 13 percent of its revenues this year. The loss is certain to worsen a political and economic crisis that has already fueled a six-year-long undeclared war between Government forces and Islamic militants recruited among the poor in which 60,000 people have been killed.
It is doubtful that a quick fix will arrest the crisis.
What oil producers face is a sea change in the oil business over the last 15 years. Among other things, technology, energy efficiencies and novel ways of trading oil on world markets skewed the traditional assumption about oil supplies.
Where oil companies could go no further than 300 or 400 yards beneath the sea to look for oil in the 1980's, they are now drilling at depths exceeding 2,000 yards and are soon to reach 3,000. In 1986 the surface accessible for drilling beneath the seas stood at 15 million acres around the world. Today, with the new technology, it is 70 million acres.
Mr. Terzian, the Petrostrategies editor, says the world has multiplied by four the possibility of finding new oil offshore in 12 years. One dramatic illustration is the oil output of the North Sea, shared by Norway and Britain, neither of which are members of OPEC or interested in halting the decline in prices by limiting production.
Fifteen years ago oil experts confidently predicted that the North Sea's output, then at 3.6 million barrels a day, would be virtually depleted by now. Instead, production has nearly doubled, to 6.3 million barrels a day .

GRAPHIC: Chart: "TAKING ACCOUNT: Oil Prices Plunge"
Exports of crude oil and refined products are expected to drop about a third in 1998. All figures are in billions of dollars except the average price for a barrel of oil. Chart shows figures for Saudi Arabia, Nigeria, Iran, Venezuela, U.A.E., Kuwait, Libya, Algeria, Indonesia and Qatar, for 1998*, 1997 and 1996.
*Forecast
(Source: Petroleum Finance Company)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (93%); INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KUWAIT (92%); AUSTRIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ALGERIA (79%); ASIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (93%); INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KUWAIT (92%); AUSTRIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ALGERIA (79%); ASIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); CARTELS (89%); TRENDS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); FUTURES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



579 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1605 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: Don't Cry Over Diving Loonies;
Canadian Dollar Plummets to a Collective Ho-Hum

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: REGINA, Saskatchewan, June 18

 BODY:
It has become a regular, almost routine, occurrence: another day, another record low for the Canadian dollar.
The recurring declines that have sent Canada's currency to one low after another since the beginning of this year might have caused a panic in many countries, especially in these jittery economic times when fluctuations in the Japanese yen or the Thai baht send shivers throughout the world. 
 But this is calm, collected, Canada. Its currency is worth around 68 American cents today, just above the record low. Yet, despite the best attempts of chauvinist columnists and all-news radio stations to stir things up every time the Canadian dollar weakens, Canadians are acting as though pretty much nothing has happened.
Indeed, not only have most Canadians blandly tolerated the latest, relatively modest, decline of their dollar -- popularly known as the "loonie" because the dollar coin bears the image of a common loon on one side -- some are even cheering the currency's steady fall.
"Every time I see the loonie fall I think 'Yes! All Right!'," said Jack Degelman, a manufacturer and exporter of farm equipment in Regina, Saskatchewan. "Having a lousy dollar definitely helps us out."
A lousy Canadian dollar makes products like the rock pickers produced by Degelman Industries Ltd. cheaper for buyers with American dollars, and Mr. Degelman's sales have been on the rise. Since more than 80 percent of Canadian exports go to the United States, the lopsided exchange rate helps lift the entire manufacturing and export sector.
That has given Ottawa one big reason not to do much to keep the loonie from sinking. Besides, the overall Canadian economy continues to be strong, with low inflation, attractive growth and the first balanced budget in decades.
But while exporters may laud the currency's depreciation -- and record numbers of American tourists discover how much further their dollars can go north of the border -- plenty of Canadians are feeling some pain.
Even with slight improvements that have, at least for now, pushed the loonie back up over 68 cents, importers have watched their profit margins shrink drastically. Canadians who usually flock to Florida and other warm spots in the United States are cutting their trips short or flying directly to Mexico, where the Canadian dollar continues to hold its own against the peso. The Toronto Blue Jays, with their $50 million payroll in American dollars, buy greenbacks months in advance as a safeguard against further currency shocks.
Despite the depreciation, prices have not yet increased substantially for all the imported food, clothing and other items that Canadians buy every day. But business is warning consumers to be prepared.
"Canada is a big importing nation," said Robert J. Armstrong, president of the Canadian Importers Association, an industry group. "Apparel, footware, appliances, electronic goods, food stuffs -- we're all going to have to pay a higher price this winter."
Mr. Armstrong said the federal Government had not acted to arrest the dollar's slide because it was focusing almost entirely on the export part of the economy without taking into account how badly the rest of Canada was hurting.
"We can't cope with a dollar this low," he said. "It's not good for the country."
But his pleas are falling on mostly deaf ears. Government economists preach pragmatism and patience. Canada's official policy is to let the market set the value of the loonie against the United States dollar and other currencies. While the rate is supposed to float freely, the Bank of Canada -- the country's central bank -- can influence currency exchange rates by raising or lowering interest rates, which now stand at 4.41 percent for three-month Treasury bills (compared with 5.18 percent for United States T-bills).
Fundamentally, a weaker Canadian dollar reflects the declining competitiveness of Canadian industry and an oversupply of the natural resources that Canada produces in abundance. Officials argue that allowing the loonie to weaken is the least damaging way to deal with the situation and contend that trying to artificially support it with higher rates would be much worse, hammering investment and consumer spending on big-ticket items.
Occasionally, the central bank has intervened in the open market to buy back Canadian dollars. But it does so rarely, and then only to stabilize the currency on a particularly volatile day, not to rebuild its value.
The Bank of Canada enjoys a high degree of independence but it is more under the influence of the elected Government than is the Federal Reserve in the United States. Canada's Minister of Finance appoints directors, who in turn select a bank governor. In the case of disputes over policy, by law it is the Government, through the finance minister, and not the Bank of Canada, that has final say.
The last time one Canadian dollar was worth one American dollar was in late 1976. Since then, the loonie has continuously lost ground, though it had generally stabilized from early 1994 to last summer, when the decline resumed. But the decline has been gradual, minimizing the impact. And even this year, while the exchange rate has bounced through several record lows, the cumulative depreciation so far is under 3 percent, far less than the huge declines of several Asian currencies in the last year.
Economists here generally attribute the currency's latest dips to outside factors, particularly the Asian economic situation itself, which has dampened demand for the natural resources and other commodities that Canada produces. "Canada's resources sector is besieged by plummeting prices," said Jeff Rubin, chief economist at CIBC Wood Gundy in Toronto. Over all, the Canadian dollar, like other currencies, has been hurt in part because the tremors in the Asian market have investors seeking out the strongest currency, which is currently the American dollar.
The economists also credit other factors, including the Bank of Canada's reluctance to raise interest rates to levels equivalent to those offered in the United States, and, to a lesser degree, lingering worries over a possible fall election in the restless province of Quebec.
None of this seems to overly concern federal officials. Prime Minister Jean Chretien has been predicting since January that the Canadian dollar's slide will not last. Speaking before New York investors in March, he blamed currency speculators "in red suspenders" for causing fluctuations in the exchange rate.
But some economists think the problems are more serious. "We might as well take the loonie and rename it the ugly duckling because it only looks good against Asian currencies," said David A. Rosenberg, senior economist for Nesbitt Burns Inc., a Toronto firm. He believes that for the situation to be reversed, the Bank of Canada must raise interest rates, even if doing so hurts exports.
"Some people may feel we can devalue our way to prosperity," Mr. Rosenberg said, "but the ever-weakening Canadian dollar is nothing more than a tax hike on all Canadians."
Most economists do not think the loonie's slide has ended. Some expect to see the Canadian dollar drop to as low as 65 cents to the dollar. That further complicates things for Canadian companies that are already struggling to cope with the worsening exchange rate.
Take the Toronto Blue Jays. About 80 percent of the baseball team's income is in Canadian dollars, but 80 percent of its expenditures are in American dollars. That includes travel, lodging and the club's roughly $50 million payroll.
To protect itself from depreciation of the dollar, the team tries to forecast its cash requirement and then relies on currency experts at banks and investment houses to lock in its position by buying American dollars in advance, said Susan Quigley, vice president of finance and administration for the Blue Jays.
For most Canadians though, adjusting to the weakened dollar has simply meant tightening their belts.
"We used to go down to the States at least two or three times a year, but the dollar is so low we can't afford to do that any more," said David Crocker, a swimming pool store owner from Brantford, Ontario. He and his wife, Judy, were spending the day at a casino on the Canadian side of Niagara Falls, where a Canadian dollar buys four slot machine tokens, but an American dollar brings almost six.
After a day at the casino, the Crockers usually cross the border to Buffalo or Niagara Falls, N.Y., to have dinner. This time, they said, the limping loonie forced them to stay in Canada.
"We just can't afford it," Mr. Crocker said.
The ups and mostly downs of the exchange rate have been a nightmare for Janet Ellen Lee, who lives in Niagara Falls, Ontario. In September, she and her husband will have two daughters attending universities in the United States.
"We had cashed in some of our investments," Mrs. Lee said, "and I remember waking up in the middle of the night wondering if it would be enough when we converted the money into American dollars."
The clear winners in all this include Americans, like Darla M. Brown of Ellenton, Fla., who find more money in their purses as soon as they cross the border into Canada.
Mrs. Brown, visiting Casino Niagara, in Niagara Falls, had settled comfortably in front of the $1 slots. She had given herself a $100-a-day limit, but with the exchange rate, her $100 bought her 145 tokens.
Which may or may not have been a fortunate thing.
"If you're just playing and planning on losing anyway," she said, "you've just got that much more to lose."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack Degelman, right, a manufacturer and exporter of farm equipment in Regina, Saskatchewan, makes a sales pitch to two farmers. His hand is on a rock picker his company sells. (Don Healy for The New York Times)(pg. D1)
 
Charts: "What, Us Worry?"
Canada's currency has fallen more than currencies of other industrialized countries. But the country is not panicking because its economy is otherwise relatively healthy. Chart tracks the percentage change in the Canadian, the Japanese, and the German currencies against the dollar, from 1989 through 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. D1)
 
"Rolling Along"
Even though Canada's currency has been declining, its economy is healthy. Chart tracks the country's unemployment rate, gross domestic product, and balance of trade, over the past few years. (Source: O.E.C.D.: I.M.F.)(pg. D4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%); 

COMPANY: DEGELMAN INDUSTRIES LTD (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); MEXICO (79%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET CURRENCIES (92%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); COINS & COINAGE (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); TRENDS (73%); RADIO FORMATS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); FARM LABOR (68%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (66%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); WRITERS (55%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



580 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
The Dow Extends Its Losses As It Ends the Day Off 1.74

BYLINE: By SHARON R. KING 

 BODY:
A 50-point gain in the Dow Jones industrial average evaporated in the last 30 minutes of trading yesterday, pushing the gauge lower and extending its losses for a third consecutive session.
Technology shares, however, ignored the Dow's decline and continued to rise. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index, which advanced five-tenths of 1 percent on Friday, rose 1.4 percent yesterday. Intel, Microsoft, Dell and Cisco led the advance. 
 Analysts largely attributed the Dow's reversal yesterday to a computer-generated sell program that stripped 44.09 points off the Dow late in the afternoon.
Over all, however, the effects of computer-generated programs was positive yesterday, as such programs added 6.73 points to the Dow and 2.25 points to the Standard & Poor's 500 index, said Jim Bohart, an official with Birinyi Associates, a stock market research firm.
After Friday's 100-point selloff of the Dow, stocks traded higher throughout much of the day yesterday, with prices buoyed by a temporary abatement of concern about Asia's economic crisis and new round of merger news.
Some buyers viewed Berkshire Hathway's planned $21.7 billion purchase of General Re Corporation and the educational software maker Learning Company's offer of $420 million in stock for Broderbund Software as signs that some investors still see value in the market.
Both offers valued the stocks at prices higher than their recent closing price before the announcement of the deals.
In taking stocks higher during the day, investors were scooping up shares that had fallen sharply recently, such as International Business Machines. The computer maker, which fell 10 points last week, was the leading gainer among Dow stocks yesterday. It closed at 108 1/8, up 2 points.
The Dow ended down 1.74 points at 8,711.13. Procter & Gamble, American Express and Merck were the leading decliners.
Moves last week by the United States and Japan to sell dollars to lift the sagging yen stemmed further declines in stocks, said Charles Pradilla, chief investment strategist at Cowen & Company. The sales were viewed as an effort to curb further erosion in the Japanese currency. If the yen continued to fall, many investors feared its weakness could amplify the Asian economic crisis and its impact on American companies which do business in the region.
"The market feels it's bought some time," Mr. Pradilla said. "Ultimately it may not change things, but it takes the idea that there is a financial crisis off the front burner and puts it on to the back burner" for a while, he said.
The Standard & Poor's 500 index inched up 2.59 points, to 1,103.24. The Nasdaq composite index rose 24.53 points, after a 36.24-point gain last week.
"There was a feeling that maybe some of them were oversold," Robert S. Basel, a trader at Salomon Smith Barney, said of the buying rage for technology shares. "There was really no fundamental news."
In addition to the bellwether technology shares, Internet-related companies were beneficiaries of yesterday's rally.
The bookseller Amazon.com rose 5 9/16 points, to 81 3/8, amid news that Bertelsmann A.G. had purchased a stake in Nuvomedia. The fledgling company, founded last year, is developing technology that allows people to download books over the Internet. Barnes & Noble, an Amazon.com competitor, also owns a stake in the company. Some analysts are skeptical that reading books on an electronic device, like the one being developed by Nuvomedia, will become popular.
Other Internet-related shares also rose. Yahoo rose 10 5/16 points, to 139 9/16, and Earthlink Network rose 6 points, to 72. America Online and Lycos also closed higher.
But some analysts warned that investors might be too enthusiastic about the stocks.
"Amazon.com is not going to make money for another couple of years," said Warren Epstein, head trader at Richard Rosenblatt & Company in New York. "But the company is valued at more than $4 billion and Barnes & Noble is valued at $2 billion," he said.
"Irrationality sometimes goes a little farther than anybody thinks it will. I'd be surprised if all of the companies were thriving in five years."
Mr. Epstein pointed to Spyglass, which traded as high as 55 in January 1996. The stock closed yesterday at 10 15/16, up 1/16 point. The company, which went public in June 1995, is an Internet software manufacturer that created one of the first World Wide Web browsers.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since June 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COWN (NASDAQ) (84%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); IBMC (BRU) (55%); IBM (NYSE) (55%); IBM (LSE) (55%); PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (68%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: COWEN GROUP INC (84%); GENERAL RE CORP (68%); INTEL CORP (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (55%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (76%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (76%); US DOLLAR (73%); MERGERS (72%); EDUCATIONAL SOFTWARE (70%); JAPANESE YEN (66%); 

PERSON: KING, SHARON R MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



581 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Despite Bomb Tests, Russia Is Selling 2 Nuclear Plants to India

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, June 22

 BODY:
Russia has agreed to sell two nuclear power stations to India, defying calls to punish New Delhi because of its testing of nuclear weapons.
The head of the Atomic Energy Ministry here concluded the deal, worth $3 billion or more to Russia's cash-starved nuclear energy industry, on Sunday. 
 The sale had become an important test case for Washington as it tries to marshal world opinion against India.
After unsuccessful American efforts to persuade Russia not to sell atomic reactors to Iran or advanced antiaircraft systems to Cyprus, the Indian sale has become another indication of Washington's limited influence with the Yeltsin Government.
The United States tried to head off the sale even before India stunned the world by exploding nuclear devices in May. After India's nuclear tests, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright again urged Moscow to abandon the negotiations.
The construction of the civilian plants themselves will have little military significance. But American officials say they violate an important principle: the world community should not engage in nuclear cooperation with aspiring nuclear weapon states.
"This sends the wrong message to the world and to India and Pakistan," said James P. Rubin, the State Department spokesman, in Washington. "Instead of pursuing business as usual, we should be scaling back this cooperation."
Indian officials hailed the sale, saying it would help thwart the American-led effort to impose economic sanctions.
Moscow has long enjoyed close ties to India. During Soviet days, Russia saw India as a counterweight to China, as well as a customer for weaponry. At the same time, Moscow had little love for Pakistan, which cooperated with American efforts to aid Afghan rebels after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
Under the tutelage of Foreign Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov, Russia has maintained close ties with New Delhi for foreign policy as well as commercial reasons.
Russian officials say India is now the second-largest buyer of Russian arms. Just last week, India's Deputy Defense Minister, Adjit Kumar, visited Moscow to discuss the purchase of additional SU-30 fighter-bombers, another multibillion-dollar deal.
Mr. Kumar visited the Zhukovsky airfield outside Moscow to observe the lastest model of the warplane, which can be equipped with bombs, cluster munitions and air-to-air and air-to-surface missiles.
Russia has also promised to sell India attack submarines and is discussing the sale of anti-ship missiles and other weapons.
Russia and the United States have been at odds over the nuclear deal for years. The origins of the dispute go back to 1992, when nuclear suppliers agreed to a broadened system of export controls.
The basic idea behind the 1992 agreement was that countries should not get the benefit of nuclear energy without committing themselves to use it only for peaceful purposes.
More specifically, the agreement forbade suppliers to export nuclear technology to aspiring nuclear powers that did not agree to let nuclear monitors into all of their sites. The effect was to preclude nuclear sales to India, since it has not accepted such far-reaching safeguards.
Russia joined the 1992 agreement. But economic pressure on its nuclear industry prompted Russian officials to look for a way to sell sell two 1,000-megawatt reactors to India.
Russian officials argued that Moscow had a right to proceed with the India deal on the ground that the sale had been contemplated in a 1988 Soviet-Indian agreement, an argument Washington rejects.
While negotiations between Russia and India dragged on, India's nuclear tests raised the stakes. Washington urged Moscow to drop the deal. But it has never sought to link American support for Western financial aid to Russia's shaky economy with Moscow's cooperation on security issues.
Russia's new Atomic Energy Minister, Yevgeny Adamov, pressed hard for the sale. His ministry has become increasingly dependent on exports to pay its workers build more nuclear plants in Russia. Yevgeny A. Reshnetnikov, a senior atomic energy official, said last year that each reactor was worth $1.5 billion to $2 billion.
Mr. Adamov flew to India last weekend to cement the deal with the chairman of India's Atomic Energy Commission, Rajagopal Chidambaram.
Indian officials have their own reasons for proceeding with the costly purchase. They want to break out of their diplomatic isolation and spite the United States, and to encourage other nations to sell them nuclear technology.
The nuclear plants, to be built at Kudankulam, will take eight years to complete. They will be light-water reactors, in which ordinary water is used to moderate the nuclear reaction. A byproduct is spent fuel with plutonium and other highly radioactive products, which can be processed to make bomb ingredients.
Russia argues that the two plants will be subject to international monitoring to prevent them from contributing to India's nuclear potential, even though some other Indian nuclear installations are not monitored. India has 10 nuclear plants, but they are much smaller and are often unreliable.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; RUSSIA; INDIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; NUCLEAR TESTS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ATOMIC ENERGY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; INDIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA NUCLEAR ENERGY (93%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); POWER PLANTS (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (78%); BOMBINGS (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); EXPORT CONTROLS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



582 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Man in the News: Andres Pastrana;
'Stoolpigeon' to President

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, June 22

 BODY:
Four years ago Andres Pastrana could not walk into a movie theater here without facing a torrent of insults, the most frequent of which was "stoolpigeon."
Mr. Pastrana was hounded by the wrath of fellow Colombians after he lost the previous presidential race to Ernesto Samper, then released recordings of Mr. Samper's campaign officials soliciting contributions from drug lords. 
 In the interim, Mr. Pastrana found work consulting for the United Nations, and managed to stay out of the country for most of the next few years.
On Sunday, though, Mr. Pastrana savored sweet vindication as millions of Colombians who quietly supported his whistle-blowing elected him to succeed Mr. Samper, rejecting Horacio Serpa, the President's ally.
Today Mr. Pastrana appeared surprised to have won the presidency by a firm margin, in an election with a record voter turnout. If on Sunday he looked shrunken and somehow prematurely defeated, today Mr. Pastrana seemed like a man just getting the hang of sitting in a much a bigger chair.
Mr. Pastrana said that he would meet with President Samper on Tuesday morning to begin the transition process, and that he expected relations between the United States and Colombia would change.
He said Colombia now has a President "with legitimacy and authority," and he pledged to broaden relations with the United States. "The agenda with the United States cannot be solely narcotics," he said in remarks today to the foreign press.
Asked if he could see "saying 'no' to the United States for anything," Mr. Pastrana replied, "Maybe for a lot of things."
After campaigning on a platform of ending more than three decades of civil violence, Mr. Pastrana called the start of peace talks with leftist rebels "the first responsibility of the next President of Colombia."
He promised to make contact with the leaders of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, Latin America's oldest rebel group and the largest insurgent group in Colombia, in the next few days, and he invited Washington to play a role in the negotiations.
Mr. Pastrana said he believed the rebels would support the elimination of coca growing in areas they dominate, and he called for an international "Marshall Plan" to help eliminate drug crops and develop other ways for coca farmers to earn a living.
He also said he would review agricultural policies, which he said were crucial to reducing unemployment and improving economic prospects. Forty percent of Colombians live in rural areas, and Mr. Pastrana noted that agricultural imports in the last four years had risen to 5 million tons a year, from 700,000 tons.
Mr. Pastrana once told a newspaper here, "I like to undertake high-risk ventures. It's something that seduces me."
Steering a country ripped apart by private armies on the left and right, a country that exports 80 percent of the cocaine that ends up in the United States, a country with an economy in free fall, may turn out to be the love of his life.
But the new President's success will to some extent depend on forces beyond his control. While the rebels have said they want to begin talks, successful negotiations will require a willingness to make concessions on all sides.
"It doesn't depend solely on him," said Carlos Franco, a former rebel of the April 19 Movement, known as M-19. "If the conditions exist, if the political class is ready to accept the kinds of changes the guerrilla wants to discuss, all of that will influence the chances for peace."
Others said the chances for peace will depend, rather, on whether the rebels are convinced they can win their battle through negotiations rather than bloodshed.
Mr. Pastrana, 43, is the Conservative son of a former President, Misael Pastrana, the last man to rule Colombia as part of a power-sharing arrangement between Liberals and Conservatives, which ended in 1974.
He was born in Bogota and is married to Norha Puyana. The couple have three children, Santiago, 15; Laura, 13, and Valentina, 2.
In the 1980's Mr. Pastrana, already widely known as a journalist on his family's television news program and later as a city councilman, turned down an offer to be named Mayor of Bogota by President Belisario Betancur. Instead he became the city's first popularly elected Mayor in 1988, and one of his achievements was significantly expanding the availability of drinking water in poor neighborhoods. He went on to become a Senator in 1991.
Although Bogotanos do not remember Mr. Pastrana as an exceptional Mayor, even his critics note that Mr. Pastrana has never been accused of corruption or favoritism.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Andres Pastrana, the President-elect of Colombia, with his family after defeating the incumbent's candidate in a runoff election on Sunday. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; COLOMBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; COLOMBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); COCAINE (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (86%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); NARCOTERRORISM (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (71%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); CIVIL WAR (68%); PEACE PROCESS (65%); DRUG CROP ERADICATION (65%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (64%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (64%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (64%); AGRICULTURE (64%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (63%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (60%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN; PASTRANA, ANDRES; SAMPER, ERNESTO (PRES); SERPA, HORACIO ANDRES PASTRANA (98%); ERNESTO SAMPER (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



583 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Details Efforts to Insure That Children Get Health Care

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, June 22

 BODY:
President Clinton today announced a series of low-cost Federal initiatives intended to encourage hundreds of thousands of poor families who lack health insurance to enroll their children in state and Federal health care programs.
Sounding many of the health care themes that Democrats have put near the center of their domestic agenda this year, Mr. Clinton said at a conference on health and families at Vanderbilt University that schools, health clinics and a variety of Federal Government offices should be used more aggressively to educate low-income parents about government health care programs like Medicaid. 
 "We have the finest health care in the world, but we still can't figure out how to give everybody access to it in a quality, affordable way," Mr. Clinton said at the conference. "We have to do a better job of turning laws into reality."
Recent studies show that the number of uninsured people in the United States is increasing, despite the healthy economy. Health care experts have said the reasons include the growth of low-paying jobs that do not provide health benefits and changes to welfare laws that have ended cash benefits for many families. In those cases, experts say, many parents do not realize that their children remain eligible for Medicaid even after they leave the welfare rolls.
There are nearly 12 million uninsured children in the country, government studies show. About two in five of those children, or 4.7 million, are eligible for Medicaid, the state-Federal program that serves the poor. More than 18 million children are served by Medicaid.
Under the policies the President outlined today, which do not require Congressional approval, the leaders of eight Federal agencies will be required to send letters to 350,000 government employees urging them to help enroll uninsured children in Medicaid or state health programs. Information on government health care programs will also be distributed at thousands of health centers, schools, welfare offices, tax offices, housing projects and other agencies that serve low-income people.
Mr. Clinton also announced outside the White House today that the Federal Government would begin a study into which brands of cigarettes are most poplar with teen-agers. The President said the survey, which was also called for in comprehensive tobacco legislation that died in the Senate last week, would help focus public pressure on tobacco companies that tailor their marketing to adolescents.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (93%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (57%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (57%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (93%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAID; MEDICAID; HEALTH INSURANCE; CHILDREN AND YOUTH MEDICAID (91%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (91%); CHILDREN (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); FAMILY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (89%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (84%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); PARENTS (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (73%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (73%); YOUTH MARKET (72%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); RESEARCH REPORTS (69%); APPROVALS (63%); TOBACCO MFG (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



584 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Dow Falls, Nasdaq Climbs As Investors Still See Value
The Dow Jones industrial average, which was up by about 50 points during the day, slipped 1.74 point, to 8,711.13. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index jumped 24.52 points, or 1.4 percent, to 1,805.82, with shares of Intel, Microsoft, Dell Computer and Cisco Systems climbing.
The Dow had been up as much as 50 points, before retreating sharply in the last half-hour of trading. Analysts largely attributed the late turnaround to a computer-generated sell program. Page D10. 

The price of the 30-year Treasury rose. Its yield was unchanged at 5.66 percent. D10.
 
G.M. Strike Could Last Until August
With few signs of progress being made toward settling strikes against General Motors, the United Automobile Workers union has raised the prospect that the walkout could last into mid-August. D3.
 
Painkiller Pulled From Market
The Food and Drug Administration has halted sales of the drug Duract, a painkiller manufactured by the Wyeth-Ayerst Laboratories unit of the American Home Products Corporation, because the drug has caused a dozen cases of serious liver failure in patients who took it for longer than the recommended 10 days. A1.
 
A Software Maker Is Acquired
The Learning Company agreed to acquire Broderbund, maker of the Myst and Carmen Sandiego software series, in a $420 million stock swap, the largest in a wave of deals consolidating the educational and consumer software market. Shares in Broderbund rose nearly 14 percent. D2.
 
CompUSA to Buy Rival From Tandy
CompUSA agreed to purchase Computer City from Tandy in a $275 million deal that will combine the nation's two biggest retailers of personal computers. D2.
 
Drop in Oil Prices Forces Cutbacks
The recent drop in oil prices has prompted several oil-producing countries to borrow money and reduce social spending to make up for lost income from oil exports. A6.
 
The 11 members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will meet in Vienna tomorrow to talk about oil prices. D5.
 
A Tobacco Verdict Is Overturned
A Florida appeals court struck down a $750,000 jury verdict against Brown & Williamson Tobacco, ruling that the lawsuit, one of the few a cigarette maker has ever lost to a smoker, was filed six days too late. A12.
 
Merrill Lynch Buying Canadian Firm
Merrill Lynch has agreed to buy Canada's last major independent brokerage firm, Midland Walwyn, for $855 million. D4.
 
China Wants to Talk About Trade
Shi Guangsheng, China's Minister for Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation, said that China hopes to make progress toward joining the World Trade Organization during this week's visit to that country by President Clinton. The organization sets global trade rules, and its 132 member nations must meet requirements for reducing barriers to trade and investment. A10.
 
G.M. Expands China Investments
Despite Asia's slump, General Motors said it would invest $100 million in a joint venture with a Chinese company to make pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles in China's northeast city of Shenyang. The plan reflects optimism about China's car market. D3.
 
Europe Clears Worldcom-MCI Deal
The European Union approved Worldcom's proposed $43.7 billion purchase of MCI, and American regulators are expected to give their approval soon. MCI agreed to sell its Internet business as a condition for European approval, and analysts said Britain's Cable and Wireless was the likely buyer. D4.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,711.13, down 1.74
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.66%, unchanged
The Dollar -- 138.16 yen, up 2.06
 
Graph tracks the share price of Broderbund Software, since last Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (83%); PFE (NYSE) (83%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); GM (NYSE) (56%); RAI (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (83%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (54%); SIC5734 COMPUTER & COMPUTER SOFTWARE STORES (54%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2131 CHEWING & SMOKING TOBACCO & SNUFF (52%); SIC2121 CIGARS (52%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (52%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (70%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (50%); 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (83%); INTEL CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); COMPUSA INC (54%); COMPUTER CITY (54%); REYNOLDS AMERICAN INC (52%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (70%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (93%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (86%); VERDICTS (85%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (85%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (76%); COMPUTER & SOFTWARE STORES (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (73%); TOBACCO MFG (72%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); RETAILERS (67%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (66%); JURY TRIALS (65%); SMOKING (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); SUITS & CLAIMS (62%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); LITIGATION (60%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



585 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
What Goes Around . . .

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: DASNA, India

 BODY:
The folks in Dasna village, north of New Delhi, have never heard of Alan Greenspan. They do not own shares on the Bombay Stock Exchange. And they are confident India will do just fine, thank you, despite the economic sanctions imposed by the U.S. on it and Pakistan for their nuclear tests.
"We are 900 million people. We will not die from these sanctions," said Pramod Batra, the 42-year-old village doctor in Dasna, where there are still more water buffalo and bicycles than cars on the road and where the air is heavy with the smell of cow dung used for energy. "This nuclear test was about self-respect, and self-respect is more important than roads, electricity and water. Anyway, what did we do? We exploded our bomb. It was like shooting a gun off into the air. We didn't hurt anybody." 
What the Indians of Dasna don't understand, and what many officials of India's new Hindu nationalist Government don't understand, is that since 1991 their country has opened its economy to global imports and investors, and made itself partially dependent on global capital to fuel its growth. If anyone forces India to put its nuclear genie back in the bottle, it's not going to be the U.S., the U.N., Pakistan or China. It is going to be the faceless gnomes of this global market. The Indians are about to learn a fundamental truth about globalization: Globalization does not end geopolitics. Nations, like India, will still defy international norms in pursuit of respect, or in response to real or imagined threats, no matter how integrated they are. But what globalization will do is exact a whole new price for that sort of defiance.
A team from the Moody's bond rating agency quietly slipped into India last week -- about as quietly and secretly as India's nuclear scientists prepared their bomb. That Moody's team concluded that the Indian economy -- in the wake of the Government's new bloated, directionless budget, the Indian nuclear test and the U.S. sanctions -- is heading in the wrong direction. As a result, on Friday, Moody's downgraded India's economy from "investment grade," which means it is safe for global investors, to "speculative grade," meaning investors beware.
This is far more important than any U.S. sanctions, because it will raise the cost of borrowing for every Indian company and state government seeking funds from abroad. And because India has a low savings rate, those foreign funds are crucial for its growth. Indian companies will now have to turn more to the Indian Treasury for capital; and the Indian Government, which is already engaged in far too much deficit spending, is either going to have to open up the money taps, and trigger inflation, or let Indian companies starve for cash. The Standard & Poor's rating agency also changed its outlook on the Indian economy from "stable" to "negative." This is a real blow to a country that needs $500 billion in new infrastructure over the next decade to remain competitive.
Said Tarun Das, director of the Confederation of Indian Industry: "There is something called sentiment in the world market. People put money where they feel good. Unfortunately, people are now worried about this part of the world. We are getting all sorts of hits on our web site from foreign investors, who are asking us, 'Are you at war?' "
No wonder that foreign direct investment in India, which was only $100 million when India opened its economy in 1991, then soared to $4 billion, has started to slow again. Foreign investment in the Bombay Stock Exchange is about $8 billion, a quarter of India's total foreign currency reserves, and those foreigners have been selling lately. The Bombay Stock Exchange Index -- which had been resisting the Asian flu -- has slid from 4,300 to near 3,000 since the nuclear test. The Indian rupee has lost 10 percent against the dollar, falling yesterday to a record low.
"Indian society was so carried away with the euphoria over the nuclear test that it has not carried out a cold assessment of what the implications are," remarked Rajendra Pachauri, an analyst at the Tata Energy Research Institute. "I fear that there will be a sense of denial for a while that nothing is wrong, and then when something hits us, we will be totally unprepared. I fear that society could react in an unpredictably negative manner. There could be a real sense of trauma. We need to prepare Indian society for that."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); MUMBAI, INDIA (88%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; PAKISTAN; INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); MUMBAI, INDIA (88%); 

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR TESTS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INDIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (85%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (72%); SHOOTINGS (71%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); BONDS (71%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (70%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (70%); BOMBINGS (68%); TRENDS (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); PRICE CHANGES (63%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L ALAN GREENSPAN (73%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



586 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2140 words

HEADLINE: Free Trade's Benefits Bypass Border Towns

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: EL PASO

 BODY:
Four years after the North American Free Trade Agreement lowered trade barriers, the cities along Texas' long border with Mexico that had hoped to benefit are instead struggling to become more than glorified truck stops as they watch their manufacturing jobs go south by the thousands.
Almost everywhere else in the United States, the economy is booming; the national unemployment rate is the lowest in nearly 30 years. In Texas university towns like Austin and College Station, employers complain of deep labor shortages. 
 But along the border, unemployment persists at two and three times the national rate, and incomes remain far below state and national averages. Though the trade agreement, Nafta, has created jobs in the warehouses and truck depots that line the highways, free trade has moved thousands more low-skill, low-wage factory jobs -- a mainstay of the border economy -- across the Rio Grande.
"This whole free-trade thing turned out to be for the big companies, not the little guy," Ricardo Granado, the manager of the TeMex Money Exchange in Brownsville, said recently as trucks bearing goods from Mexico roared past after crossing the Rio Grande.
Over the last few years, clothes makers like Levi Strauss & Company, Wrangler, Lee and Tex-Mex Apparel have put thousands of El Pasoans out of work.
Refugio Arrieta lost her job as a pocket stitcher two years ago when the Tex-Mex factory moved its 150 jobs to Mexico. She is among 10,000 workers in El Paso who the Labor Department says have lost jobs because of Nafta, the most anywhere in the United States.
"I feel like the economy of El Paso is leaving so many of us behind," said Ms. Arrieta, who has no high school diploma. "We have been written off."
Workers like Ms. Arrieta, who is struggling to learn English while in a retraining program to be a nurse's assistant, are at the center of the problem facing border cities that once marketed themselves as sources of cheap labor.
Now that those kinds of jobs are being lost to Mexico, the cities realize they must attract better-paying, higher-skill jobs. But the work force, swelling with poor Mexican immigrants, is ill-equipped for them. One economic study has warned that the border, with 3 of the nation's 10 fastest-growing metropolitan areas, faces a future of "growth without prosperity."
Nathan Christian, the chairman of the Greater El Paso Chamber of Commerce, said that business leaders this year identified retraining workers as by far the region's top need.
"We're not a Silicon Valley and we're not close to being a Silicon Valley, but we can compete for high-tech jobs," said Mr. Christian, who is chief executive of Norwest Bank.
With a large young work force and a low cost of living, the area interests many corporations as a manufacturing base, he said.
"Basically," Mr. Christian said, "these companies say if you can give us a labor base with adequate skills, if you provide us with that, we would make you our first choice to locate."
When Nafta took effect, many communities hoped it would somehow bring prosperity. A study sponsored by business groups in El Paso, for example, predicted the city would become a banking and commerce center for Mexico like Hong Kong is for China.
But most of the big deals still seem to be made in Houston or Dallas, just as in Mexico they are made in Mexico City or other financial centers. At the same time, with tariffs removed, workers watch their jobs freely cross to cities like Ciudad Juarez, where wages are far lower.
Some experts say that as more of Nafta's provisions go into force -- as Mexican truckers, for example, gain the right to cross the Rio Grande and drive all the way to Michigan -- the border will suffer even more.
"The border becomes irrelevant," said Bernard L. Weinstein, a professor of applied economics at the University of North Texas. "And unless it figures out some way to replace the jobs that came from the indigenous activities that used to be associated with being a border town, then things get worse."
With the border mired in poverty, many people are angry, suspecting that once again the border matters to the rest of the country, if at all, as a remote buffer zone. The region has long resented that its cities have been made militarized zones in the war against illegal immigrants and drugs, their boundaries marked by razor wire, their neighborhoods patrolled by immigration officers.
"The border never seems to thrive, and it's designed that way," said Raymond C. Caballero, an El Paso lawyer. "The border is being used by the state of Texas, and has been for a long time."
That anger came across in a recent editorial in The El Paso Times, the daily newspaper here, that called for an end to price supports for tobacco farmers.
"Tobacco farmers should start facing free-market principles," the editorial said. "After all, these are the same free-market principles that have ruthlessly gutted the city's garment industry."
 
A Rich History
Sharing Culture Over 4 Centuries
The border region has a fabled history, perhaps most famously in El Paso, with its striking desert landscape below the Franklin Mountains and its four centuries of shared culture, commerce and conflict with Ciudad Juarez, across the Rio Grande. The sister cities are often described as the most dramatic meeting anywhere of first world and third.
The drama has nourished a vibrant sense of self and place.
"There is something very unique about the border," said Dr. Abraham Verghese, the author of "My Own Country" and a professor of medicine at the Texas Tech Health Sciences Center. "There are so many different mythologies that come together here: the Spanish conquistadors, the Aztec Indians, the Billy-the-Kid Wild West."
The ease with which people can cross the border offers constant reminders that two very different worlds are side by side, Dr. Verghese said.
But the border has never fully marched to the beat of the American economy.
"Our Southern frontier is not simply American on one side and Mexican on the other," Tom Miller observed in his book, "On the Border." "It is a third country with its own identity."
And in El Paso, the busiest border crossing in the world, there is a clear feeling that the American side may no longer be getting the better part of any bargain.
Since 1994, the foreign-owned factories just inside Mexico, known as maquiladoras, have added 220,000 jobs, a 60 percent increase. In these plants, workers assemble foreign-made goods that are shipped back to their country of origin with duty assessed only on the value added to the product. Ciudad Juarez, a city of 1.3 million, boasts a lower unemployment rate than El Paso, and at least 20,000 El Pasoans commute to jobs there.
Ciudad Juarez's largest employers are corporations including General Motors, Ford and United Technologies. El Paso's largest are two public school districts and Fort Bliss.
All along the American side of the border, communities are trying to broaden their employment base. Several cities are establishing funds for retraining workers, aiming for jobs paying at least $10 an hour.
Last year, even as the State Legislature in Austin was approving a billion-dollar statewide tax cut, voters in McAllen, in the Lower Rio Grande Valley, where per capita income is only $11,478, less than half the national average, raised their sales tax half a cent to start a "human development fund."
Other initiatives have a plaintive air. In the Rio Grande Valley, corporate leaders began "Project Come Home" to encourage young people to return after college -- and to convince potential employers that a skilled work force will be available.
"For years, parents have been telling their kids that in order to obtain a good job, they must leave the Valley," said Keith Patridge, executive vice president of the McAllen Economic Development Corporation. "Well, this is changing."
But the challenges to lure employers are daunting. While El Paso's schools are well-respected, many students have poor English skills. Drop-out rates are high, and many adults lack high school diplomas.
A study released recently by the National Institute for Literacy found that the border had some of the highest illiteracy rates in the United States.
 
Nafta Casualties
Bearing a Burden Without Benefits
Workers who can show they lost jobs because an employer left for Mexico are eligible for Transitional Adjustment Assistance, or T.A.A., which provides up to $7,500 for retraining. More than 10,000 such "Nafta casualties" are signed up in El Paso. But the idea that such a sum might quickly make high-tech experts of workers who have spent their lives stitching blue jeans is dismissed by many people.
"What T.A.A. promised was that it was going to be a bridge to connect people to a whole new world of work," said Cindy Arnold, development coordinator for La Mujer Obrera (The Working Woman), a nonprofit group in El Paso that helps displaced workers, most of whom are female and Hispanic. "But it's like a bridge into a ravine. It doesn't exist. It's a fraud."
Nafta has undeniably brought economic activity to the border, most obviously the huge warehouses, distribution centers and truck depots that have risen outside Laredo and east of El Paso. But it has also brought pollution, traffic, jammed bridges and a sense that its benefits were overstated.
"Nafta has done absolutely nothing for Douglas, Ariz.," said Ray Borane, the Mayor of that border city. "The only thing we've seen is truck traffic."
El Paso's Mayor, Carlos M. Ramirez, still insists that El Paso is poised to enter a golden age.
"But so far," Mr. Ramirez said, "the border is bearing the burden of free trade and not the benefits.
"I think Nafta has been good for the country, but if the entire country is getting the benefits, it should be paying the costs," he added, saying that the region needed Federal money for its clogged bridges and roads.
Border communities have also been affected by bad economic news in Mexico. When that country devalued the peso in 1994, the results were disastrous on the American side of the border, where the purchasing power of Mexicans was lowered dramatically. In El Paso alone, 70 downtown businesses closed.
There are bright spots, most with cautions. The area is creating jobs at a faster pace than are most other parts of Texas, though the demand for work far outstrips the supply.
In Laredo, per-capita income grew by 32.6 percent from 1990 to 1996, slightly faster than the 27.4 percent growth nationally. But, at $12,199, it is still less than half the national figure of $24,436.
Many of those left behind are determined to catch up. Irma Montoya, 47, lost her job at an El Paso plant that made thermometers when it closed two and a half years ago. Since then, she has studied bookkeeping, but she has no regular income, and her husband, who worked for 20 years at a boot maker that also closed, is making much less money as a janitor.
The family's one piece of good economic news is bittersweet for Ms. Montoya. Her 24-year-old son, Oscar, got a job at Acer Computer, which opened a computer assembly plant here five years ago. The job required at least a high school diploma, math skills and knowledge of English.
"I am happy for him, but this is what I'm telling you when I say we are left behind," said Ms. Montoya, who speaks little English. "I'm afraid I could never get a job like that."
 
The Future
Hungering for Role In a New Economy
There are optimists along the border, many of whom say that as the skill level of students and workers here picks up, the region will become a dynamic link between two nations that are increasingly trading with each other. Michael J. Blum, a former city planner for McAllen who is now a business consultant, calls the area "the neck of the hourglass."
Ms. Arnold, of La Mujer Obrera, which has organized pickets and camp-outs in which displaced workers demand jobs and retraining, says the women she deals with yearn to play a role in the new economy.
"These workers are not uneducable by any means," she said. "There is a tremendous hunger. They are very motivated to learn and to work."
There are, of course, jobs just over the border, and from places like El Paso and Brownsville, more people are commuting to work in Mexico, especially in the maquiladoras.
But advocates for workers say there is no way an American can earn a decent living in such plants, which, according to a Labor Department study last year, pay an average hourly wage of $1.36, compared with $7.71 for factory jobs in El Paso.
"We have to deal with this issue of retraining here, in this city, in this country," Ms. Arnold said. "There is no way you can sustain yourself on Juarez wages and live in the United States."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At night, downtown El Paso, where 70 businesses closed in 1994, is deserted. The Department of Labor says 10,000 workers in the Texas border city lost jobs because of the North American Free Trade Agreement. (Bruce Berman for The New York Times)(pg. A16)
 
Chart: "Growth Without Prosperity"
Counties along Texas' border with Mexico have seen their populations grow faster than the rest of the state and the country. But their income levels lag behind as jobs move across the border into Mexico. Chart shows population (1997), population growth (1990-97), per capita income (1996) and unemployment (1997), for El Paso, Webb, Starr, Hidalgo, Cameron and Texas counties and for the United States. (Sources: Census Bureau; Bureau of Labor Statistics; Bureau of Economic Analysis)(pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (84%); SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); 

CITY: EL PASO, TX, USA (96%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (84%); BROWNSVILLE, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LEVI STRAUSS & CO (68%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWESTERN STATES (US); TEXAS; MEXICO; UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (94%); TEXAS, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (84%); SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (96%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (84%); BROWNSVILLE, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; WAGES AND SALARIES; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); REFUGEES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); URBANIZATION (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); APPAREL MFG (77%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (76%); COST OF LIVING (76%); CITIES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); LABOR SHORTAGES (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); DISMISSALS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE MICHAEL MCMAHON (61%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



587 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Pledges to Aid Indonesia With Reforms

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, June 22

 BODY:
The United States pledged today to support Indonesia's economic reform efforts and said it was prepared to provide economic and technological assistance to help rescue the country's stalled economy.
"The restoration of economic stability is an absolute top priority," Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers said after a 90-minute meeting with the Indonesian President, B. J. Habibie. He did not elaborate on the amount or form of the assistance. 
 Mr. Summers said he was "encouraged" by the reforms undertaken by Mr. Habibie since he became head of state on May 21, after President Suharto resigned under public pressure after 32 years in power.
Mr. Habibie has promised to follow through with the measures prescribed by the International Monetary Fund for its bailout package.
Mr. Summers' visit, his second this year, comes as the I.M.F. is reportedly nearing the end of its latest round of negotiations with top Government officials to resume aid payments from the rescue package, which were halted after riots in May that left nearly 1,200 people dead. A second installment of $1 billion is expected to be released in early July.
When asked who was responsible for the delay in aid from the fund, to which the United States is a major contributor, Mr. Summers said, "The I.M.F. makes its own decisions."
The country's top economic official, Ginandjar Kartasasmita, has acknowledged that the country's efforts to slow inflation, stabilize food supplies and curb rising unemployment would fail without foreign assistance. Mr. Ginandjar is the Coordinating Minister for Economics and Finance.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE H STEIN (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; JAKARTA (INDONESIA); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); FOOD CHARITIES (67%); 

PERSON: SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H (DEPUTY SEC); HABIBIE, B J (PRES) LAWRENCE SUMMERS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



588 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: China Lets 100 Flowers Bloom, in Private Life

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, June 22

 BODY:
At a kitchen table strewn with glossy fashion magazines, Lucy Lu sat with her boyfriend Tony Yao and talked about what it is like to live together without being married, an arrangement rarely allowed in China until recently.
"My mother used to bug me about it, but nobody else seems to care," said Ms. Lu, a 26-year-old real estate agent. 
 "As long as we pay the rent," Mr. Yao cut in, laughing. "A few years ago the landlord here would not let a couple like us live here, at any price. Today, he just wants to collect the rent."
More than a sexual revolution, this young couple's living arrangements signal a growing realm of personal freedom in China that allows ordinary people to make choices about travel, work, study and love with less Government interference than at any time since the People's Republic was established nearly 50 years ago.
With President Clinton arriving in China on Thursday, critics of the Administration's policy of engagement point to the lack of political freedom in a country still governed by the Communist Party, in a place where political persecution, censorship and a secretive and authoritarian leadership are as entrenched as ever.
Only the public side of life, however, remains so tightly restricted in China. The private side of life here is quite different, as Mr. Clinton would see if he could shed his 1,000-member entourage long enough to talk to some ordinary folk. The issues that most people care about most -- choosing a job, a place to live, a mate -- have gained a degree of flexibility that few could have imagined 10 years ago.
Eager to accentuate the positive side of President Clinton's engagement policy, Administration officials like to argue that American cooperation with China can help promote the growing sense of personal freedom in Chinese society.
In practice, the changes now under way in China are so deep and wide that it is hard to see how American policy can significantly affect them one way or the other.
"China will find its own way forward, as it always has," said Alex Hao, an advertising executive who studied in the United States for five years before returning to China in 1993. "Americans always think they can change every place. You can't change China as fast as it is changing by itself."
Perhaps the most remarkable aspect of China's recent history is how the nation's social and economic change have sped ahead while the political system has remained consistently rigid. These diverging tracks create new strains for anyone who tries to straddle the two, yet for now most Chinese seem content to stay on the path that lets their incomes and personal lives flourish.
Relinquishing control over aspects of ordinary life has not come from any benevolent plan by the authorities. Instead, as China has developed economically, with an ever-more-mobile populace, it has simply become more difficult for the authorities to monitor and control the lives of ordinary people.
Communist Party officials still say that they help keep order in an increasingly chaotic society, but concede that the demands of a modern society make it impractical to keep close tabs on individuals the way the party did until a few years ago.
"We encourage people to take responsibility in building a civil society," said Xu Xinhai, a senior official in Shanghai's Communist Party organization department. "Our central aim now is to support economic development, not interfere in people's personal lives."
Not long ago, every lane in Shanghai was subject to the watchful eye of a neighborhood committee, a local organization typically staffed by retired women who kept track of every resident and reported anything unusual -- like a young unmarried couple living together -- to the local police or Communist Party organization. The same practice occurred in cities and towns all over China.
Similarly, every workplace in the vast state-run apparatus of companies, offices and organizations had its own Communist Party organization to keep track of anyone who seemed to stray.
Yet in recent years, each of these avenues of control has begun to melt away, but have yet to disappear. Modern phenomena, like tall apartment buildings and private companies, make it harder for the authorities to control the lives of ordinary individuals.
Members of the urban elite with money to spend clearly have gained the greatest amount of personal freedom, with an array of new choices. In ways large and small, Chinese are less likely to look over their shoulder before, say, kissing in public or keeping large sums of money in a bank. Growing personal freedom has also touched groups who are not in the mainstream of Chinese society, including gays, for example, who now enjoy greater tolerance, at least in urban areas. Yet increased personal freedom is not limited to city folk.
In rural areas, where the vast majority of China's 1.2 billion people live, old restrictions on movement from one area to another have dissolved in recent years. As a result, well over 100 million people now migrate to work outside their home area.
Su Xiaoli remembers her own days in the countryside, where she spent five years planting rice as a teen-ager in the 1970's, having followed orders to move there from Shanghai.
"We had no choice at all at that time," mused Ms. Su, 42, now the deputy manager of a company that makes revolving doors. "Now it's the other extreme. My son is 16, and the choices facing him are astounding to me. He says it's no big deal."
Through her own eyes, Ms. Su has watched the tentacles of Government control relax year by year, gradually granting her the freedom to change jobs, move apartments and travel overseas. She has done each in the last four years.
At a previous job in the telephone bureau, Ms. Su said, one entire day of each work week was set aside for a political meetings, where the current line from Beijing was supposed to be discussed. In practice, she recalled, that usually meant that a leader in her department would simply read sections of People's Daily aloud.
At that time, by her own description, Ms. Su was relatively powerful. In an era of scarce telephones, she got to decide who got a telephone line in their home, and she laughingly admits that she took often gifts and favors just to do her job. But as privileged as she was, she chafed against all the limits.
"If you sat around and did nothing, life was simple," Ms. Su said. "If you wanted to get a plane ticket or some gasoline for a car, it was an ordeal of paperwork. Trying to change jobs was a nightmare."
Today, Ms. Su can buy a plane ticket, book a hotel room or buy a car without any special permission, or interference, from the authorities. When she quit the telephone bureau to take her new job in 1995, she did not need anyone's permission.
"Not even my husband could stop me," she said, laughing again.
Mr. Hao, the advertising executive, considered the changes over the last 10 years, and offered another way of explaining it.
"Life is getting more normal," he said. "We are emerging from years and years of excessive control. It feels great, but it's what we should have had all along."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sweethearts kissed at Beijing University yesterday. Personal life in China has become freer in recent years. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (78%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNIST PARTY (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNIST PARTY (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (78%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (90%); CENSORSHIP (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); TRENDS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (56%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH BILL CLINTON (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



589 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Legislators and Whitman Agree on Budget

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON 

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 22

 BODY:
Republican legislative leaders and Gov. Christine Todd Whitman agreed on the broad outlines of a new $18.2 billion state budget today that would increase spending by more than $1 billion for public schools, state colleges, open space preservation and a handful of other programs.
The lawmakers largely followed the spending plan that Governor Whitman first outlined in February, but they did reject a few of her proposals. 
 These included their decision not to eliminate the sales tax on long-distance calls made within the state. They rejected proposed cuts in the prescription program for low-income elderly residents. And they stopped an effort by the Whitman administration to eliminate some state jobs and turn them over to private contractors, which Governor Whitman said would save $6 million.
The legislative leaders added almost $100 million in spending to the Governor's proposed budget for the fiscal year that begins July 1. The spending increases include $20 million for school construction costs, $10 million for municipalities to keep down property taxes, $10 million more to help maintain state parks and $8.5 million in additional aid for middle-income school districts.
"We are in agreement on 99 percent of this budget," said Pete McDonough, chief spokesman for Mrs. Whitman. "We will review the bill after it is introduced and the Governor will make her determinations about line-item vetoes after the bill is passed."
The budget is expected to be considered by the budget committees in the Senate and the Assembly on Thursday. It is expected to be voted on by both houses early next week. Mrs. Whitman is expected to sign the new budget into law before the new fiscal year begins.
State officials expect to end the current fiscal year on June 30 with a surplus of almost $1 billion and they estimate more than $700 million in new revenues in the next fiscal year. The state's economic boom has fueled budget largesse. The spending increase is more than 6 percent over this year's state budget and is the largest spending rise in the last four years.
Governor Whitman was unsuccessful in persuading lawmakers to raise the gasoline tax by 2 cents a gallon to help pay for the preservation of a million acres of farm land and other open space in the next decade.
But there is $50 million in the budget for the purchase of open land. And Mrs. Whitman and Republican legislative leaders have agreed on a plan to borrow $1.4 billion in the next 30 years to meet the Governor's goals for preserving open space. The proposal, which would go to the voters for approval in November, would cost taxpayers about $100 million a year.
Whitman administration officials and lawmakers said that the $50 million allocated in the new budget would be enough money for now because the program would not begin until January.
State Senator Robert E. Littell, a Republican who is chairman of the Senate Budget and Appropriations Committee, said that the unanticipated increase in tax revenues made the budget process this year more difficult at times. "The good news is that we have more money," Mr. Littell said. "The bad part is we have more money. The bad part is fending off all of the requests for new spending."
The new budget would set aside $661 million of the extra tax revenues for a so-called rainy day fund, $31 million more than Governor Whitman proposed earlier this year.
Assemblyman Richard H. Bagger, a Republican and chairman of the Assembly Appropriations Committee, said that he expected that revenue projections would exceed the Whitman administration's estimates in the coming months and that the rainy day fund would grow even more.
While Legislative leaders rejected Mrs. Whitman's proposed $24 million cut in the sales tax on long-distance telephone calls made within the state, Mr. Bagger said that lawmakers would consider offering other savings to taxpayers.
Mr. Bagger said that one legislative proposal under discussion would exempt more low-income residents from paying state income taxes. "I would rather see us direct a tax cut in a more targeted way," he said.
Despite the huge budget surplus and widespread opposition in the Legislature to raising the gasoline tax to help preserve farm land and other open space, the Whitman administration is continuing to push a 5-cent gasoline tax increase to help pay for transportation projects.
The administration was encouraged today that the gasoline tax increase would win legislative support after a bill was introduced with bipartisan support that would put the gasoline tax increase on the November ballot for voters to consider.
The increase would raise state taxes on gasoline to 19.5 cents a gallon from 14.5 cents a gallon, with the added revenue used for transportation projects.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Beulah Bryant, left, and Antoinette Mims joined fellow state employees and union leaders in Trenton yesterday to lobby against a plan by Governor Whitman to privatize state jobs. Lawmakers rejected the plan. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; LAND USE POLICIES BUDGETS (92%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); VETO (79%); SALES TAX (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (72%); STATE PARKS (72%); GASOLINE (71%); FUEL TAX (71%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (67%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (56%); AGING (55%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JENNIFER; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



590 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Is Pressed On 'One China' Policy

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Tuesday, June 23

 BODY:
China's Foreign Minister today called on President Clinton to make a public statement during his state visit this week restating American opposition to any move by Taiwan toward independence.
In a news conference this morning the minister, Tang Jiaxuan, also called on the United States to halt sales of advanced weapons like fighter planes and defensive missiles to Taiwan. 
 "The United States should take concrete action to match the commitments it has made on Taiwan with deeds," he said, referring to the sale of advanced arms.
Mr. Tang's statements broke no new ground and reflected the overriding position of Taiwan, considered here as a renegade part of the Chinese motherland, in Chinese foreign policy. But they did disclose one of the key unresolved issues between the two countries for a summit meeting that is expected to stress positive images and gloss over differences.
While Washington supports a "one China" policy and opposes Taiwan's independence, Taiwan enjoys strong support in the Congress. It appears extremely unlikely that China will get the promise it seeks.
Nonetheless, Mr. Tang gave an upbeat assessment of the coming visit, which the Chinese Government hopes will improve China's image in America and foster closer economic and political ties.
"We expect the visit to be crowned with a complete success," Mr. Tang said. "It will propel China-United States relations into a new stage of growth."
The Chinese leaders are well aware, Mr. Tang said, of what he called the "discord and noises" in the United States coming from critics of the Administration's policy of engaging China. But he said: "I am convinced this does not represent the desire and conscience of the vast majority of the American people."
Mr. Tang also responded to the attacks on Mr. Clinton's willingness to be greeted in Tiananmen Square, where the military crushed student demonstrations in 1989. He said that the spot -- a plaza on the edge of the square in front of the Great Hall of the People -- was the routine site for greeting foreign heads of state and that if President Jiang were not to meet President Clinton there, it would be "a lack of courtesy."
The Foreign Minister also brushed aside calls by some democracy advocates in China for President Clinton to meet with their representatives. The so-called dissidents, Mr. Tang said, "usually are people who have violated the criminal law of China." He noted that President Clinton has already indicated he will not seek a meeting with any political dissidents during this visit.
On other issues to be discussed, a senior Chinese trade official said yesterday that China hoped to make progress toward joining the World Trade Organization.
But in contrast with earlier hopes that entry could be clinched by now, the official, Shi Guangsheng, Minister for Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation, said there was no timetable. His reaction to American statements that China was far from satisfying requirements for opening its markets to outsiders was mild.
He said that "we will continue to hope for positive and substantive progress" toward agreement on entry into the trading body.
"China wants to join the W.T.O. because this is necessary for our own economic reform and opening up," Mr. Shi said.
The organization sets global trade rules. Its 132 member nations must reduce barriers to trade and investment, and in turn they are given better trading conditions in other member countries.
On Saturday in Beijing the chief American trade negotiator, Charlene Barshefsky, said it had become clear that Chinese leaders, preoccupied with domestic economic dangers, were not ready to make the major changes needed. Besides general tariff levels, American officials are especially concerned about barriers to agricultural imports and to foreign involvement in financial, accounting, tourism and other service industries.
China has portrayed entry into the trade body as a political as well as an economic goal, and has sometimes lambasted the West for imposing what China considers unfair requirements. But today Mr. Shi, consistent with a general effort by officials to minimize conflict, kept his complaints muted.
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (98%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; BEIJING (CHINA); CHINA; TIANANMEN SQUARE (BEIJING); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (98%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TAIWAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ARMS SALES ABROAD; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMS TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); CRIMINAL LAW (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK; TANG JIAXUAN (MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



591 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: Hospitals Uniting to Fight Drug-Resistant Bacteria

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER 

 BODY:
Jolted by the rapid spread of bacteria that resist antibiotics, New York City's business community and six top hospitals are forging a novel alliance to detect, identify and, if all goes well, reduce the bacteria's levels in the city's hospitals.
For the last decade, health experts nationwide have been cautiously worrying about the threat posed by the increasing immunity of the bacteria, which can cause potentially fatal diseases like tuberculosis and pneumonia and serious infections like strep or staph. 
 The rate of death from resistant bacteria is relatively low, most experts agree. But the new alliance recognizes a growing concern about not only the bacteria, but also about a potential side effect: that a public health issue has economic consequences as well. A major concern for the alliance is that patients fearing infection will shun New York's otherwise respected hospitals, harming an industry that is one of the city's economic mainstays.
At the center of the initiative is the notion -- widely assumed but scientifically unproven -- that New York City has more strains of drug-resistant bacteria than most other parts of the country, or at least that some strains appear in the city first.
"Clearly, if New York has a bigger problem than other places, it's going to affect the competitiveness of our hospitals," said Willa Appel, president of the Policy Center of the New York City Partnership, the city's leading business group, which is overseeing the project.
There are other cost concerns in a city where the health care industry is the largest private employer. A recent study by the Lewin Group, a Washington-based health care consultant, estimated that staph infections alone cost $435 million to treat in the New York area in 1995. In general, patients with infections must be hospitalized longer, erasing the savings associated with managed care and other cost-cutting measures.
Barry Kreiswirth, an infectious-disease expert who runs a laboratory in Manhattan that identifies bacteria and is involved in the project, said the issue of resistance to antibiotics also raises questions about many medical procedures that are profitable to hospitals, like triple-bypass surgery.
"Hospitals which make money on these procedures will start having major problems," he said, "and I don't know how the H.M.O.'s are going to deal with it."
The initiative focuses its efforts on hospitals, where the risk of infections is far greater than in the general population. Hospitals are by definition centers for sick people and, with so many antibiotics in use, the bacteria most likely to survive are those that have developed some resistance. More organisms are becoming partially or completely resistant to all antibiotics on the market, and few new antibiotics are being developed.
The New York City Partnership, which represents about 700 companies, has undertaken several initiatives in areas of the economy it believes are at risk. Late last year, it began studying antibiotic resistance.
Ms. Appel said the project would cost more than $1 million for the first two years, and she is seeking Federal and state grants to pay for it.
The initiative is at an early stage. The most concrete -- and unusual -- accomplishment is the hospitals' agreement to share information about infections that they are normally reluctant to discuss with each other. To address that concern, the information in the project would not be public, and in fact, the names of the hospitals would be available to only a few people involved.
"These guys are competitive," Dr. Kreiswirth said. "They really don't want to air their dirty laundry. The thing is, they all have dirty laundry."
The main goal of the project is to enable hospitals to detect and identify new bacterial strains before they spread, Ms. Appel said. To do that, the program would standardize the data bases of the hospitals, which would plug in information about their infections and in return be able to find out about infections at other hospitals.
The project also calls for the hospitals to create uniform methods of identifying various bacteria, including the accurate but expensive DNA "fingerprinting" technique used to separate similar strains. The project would also require hospitals to report the quantity and types of antibiotics they dispense, to determine whether greater use correlates with greater resistance.
Nationally, the rate at which people are developing infections in hospitals rose 36 percent from 1975 to 1995, according to a study released earlier this year. Of the 36 million hospital admissions in 1995, there were 1.8 million infections contracted in hospitals, according to the Federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. Infections contributed to the deaths of 88,100 of those patients, and experts say infection was the direct cause of death in perhaps a quarter of the cases.
Roughly 70 percent of those 1.8 million infections were caused by bacteria with some resistance to one or more antibiotics. It is uncertain how many people die from bacteria that cannot be treated with antibiotics, but experts say the number is surely rising. There are no comparative statistics for New York City or New York State.
"There is beginning to compile enough evidence to say that resistance itself is contributing to mortality," said Dr. Robert Gaynes, chief of surveillance for the hospital infections program at the C.D.C. "I don't think I could have said that five years ago."
In New York, health experts are treading a fine line between measured concern and outright alarm. In the United States, the problem of drug-resistant tuberculosis that emerged in the early 1990's was centered in New York City, and several other strains of resistant bacteria were discovered in New York before they were detected in other parts of the country. An example is enterococci -- which can cause infections of wounds, blood or urinary tracts -- with resistance to vancomycin, the antibiotic considered the last line of defense. The strain was first detected in the United States simultaneously in New York and Boston in 1989 and has since spread nationwide.
Dr. Brian P. Currie, the medical epidemiologist at one of the hospitals participating in the project, Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, said enterococci resistant to vancomycin did not appear at his hospital until 1991. But by the end of 1994, 40 percent of all enterococci samples showed resistance to the drug.
Unlike the tuberculosis bacterium, enterococci are rarely found in the general population, a fact that underscores the need for the New York City Partnership project to reduce the level of infections in hospitals, Dr. Currie said.
"It's a hospital issue," he said.
Among the questions the project seeks to answer is whether New York indeed has more resistant bacteria than other regions do. Experts have speculated that the city's role as a magnet for business and worldwide immigration contributes to the problem, especially because many immigrants come from nations in which antibiotic use is much more widespread than in the United States.
Several other experts, including Dr. Currie, have also speculated that the sheer number of hospitals in New York plays a role. That may be particularly true in an era of mergers and affiliations in which patients and workers travel more frequently among institutions, the experts say.
"There is a tremendous concentration of hospitals, of antibiotic usage," Dr. Currie said. "Basically, what you are producing is almost ideal conditions for the spread of bacteria that have developed a multiple antibiotic resistance."
Aside from Montefiore, the collaborating hospitals are: Beth Israel Medical Center, New York and Presbyterian Hospital, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and Mount Sinai Medical Center, all in Manhattan, and Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn. The Public Health Research Institute, a private organization in Manhattan, and Rockefeller University are also participating. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY PARTNERSHIP; MONTEFIORE MEDICAL CENTER (NYC); BETH ISRAEL MEDICAL CENTER (NYC); MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (NYC); NEW YORK AND PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL; MAIMONIDES MEDICAL CENTER (NYC) LEWIN GROUP INC (53%); MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY PARTNERSHIP; MONTEFIORE MEDICAL CENTER (NYC); BETH ISRAEL MEDICAL CENTER (NYC); MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (NYC); NEW YORK AND PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL; MAIMONIDES MEDICAL CENTER (NYC) MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS; BACTERIA; ANTIBIOTICS BACTERIA (92%); HOSPITALS (90%); ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE (90%); ANTIBIOTICS (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); DRUG RESISTANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); TUBERCULOSIS (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); CANCER (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); PNEUMONIA (71%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: FISHER, IAN WILLA APPEL (71%); BARRY KREISWIRTH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



592 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Modern Art Of Mastery On the Mound

BYLINE: By IRA BERKOW 

 BODY:
GREG MADDUX is an artist," Joe Torre, the Yankee manager, has said. "Every time you swing at one of his pitches, it's a ball, and when you don't, it's a strike."
Indeed, Maddux, the Atlanta Braves right-hander, permits so little activity on the bases that each game he pitches could be titled "Still Life." 
 Not last night, however. The canvas got a little crowded for him at Yankee Stadium, in the first game of a series that has been billed as a possible preview of the World Series. Maddux allowed nine hits and three runs before departing after six innings with a 4-3 lead, and he learned from the showers that the Yankees had won, 6-4, with no decision for him.
It was less than one of his routine masterpieces -- even Picasso had the occasional bungle -- but when Maddux had to be dazzling, he was. In the sixth inning, with two runners on base and one out in a 3-3 game, he struck out Scott Brosius and forced Joe Girardi to bounce weakly to the mound.
Maddux then left the game, having been plagued by a stiff neck he had awakened with and which troubled him so much that he almost didn't start. "It was killing him," Braves Manager Bobby Cox said.
Maddux won the Cy Young award four straight years (1992-95) and is the leading pitcher in the National League again, with a 10-2 record -- he has won eight in a row -- and a 1.62 earned run average. And he has achieved his mastery so effortlessly that it's mystifying.
Mark Grace, the Chicago Cubs first baseman, observed that Maddux pitches "like he's in a rocking chair." Like Grandma Moses?
"I know absolutely nothing about art," Maddux said last weekend. "If there was an art handicap like there is a golf handicap, I would be a 50."
What, then, is the esthetic secret to his success, which is certain to land him in the Hall of Fame? Now in his 13th major league season, Maddux has nearly twice as many victories, 194, as losses, 110, and his strikeout-to-walk ratio is also remarkable; last year, he gave up just 20 walks while striking out 177 batters. Last night, he whiffed four and walked none.
There is nothing outwardly noteworthy about perhaps the best pitcher of our time. He has the demeanor of a bookkeeper. He is 32 years old, stands 6 feet tall, weighs 175 pounds. He wears glasses off the field, has a physique that would not draw attention at the beach, rarely shows emotion and frustrates batters to such a degree that they nearly weep.
Some pitchers throw the ball at nearly 100 miles an hour, some have wicked breaking balls. Maddux has neither. "I saw Sandy Koufax and I saw Nolan Ryan," he said, "and I knew I couldn't pitch like those guys. I wasn't going to overpower anybody."
His fastball is generally clocked in the mid- to upper 80's, and he uses breaking balls sparingly. "I found that velocity can be misleading," he said. "I rely on location of my fastball and on changeups. If you stand by a highway and watch cars go by, you can't really tell which one is going 80 miles an hour and which is going 90. And if you throw real hard every pitch, hitters will eventually time them."
Maddux learned from other masters of the mound. His classroom was the dugout. When he studied Mario Soto, he discerned that one could win with, basically, two pitches. "Soto was able to pitch effectively with just a fastball and a changeup," Maddux said. "Which is what I do -- though his fastball was better than mine. You locate your fastball, and you keep your changeup down. If that doesn't work, you'll be backing up third and home all day."
Unlike many in sports who analyze and parse and dissect and deconstruct the commonplace components of running, jumping and hurling, Maddux wants no part of it. "You do something well in sports, it gets magnified," he said. "I just throw a baseball for a living."
His consistency, his professionalism and his understanding of hitters and of his own abilities, however, belie such a casual approach.
"I try to keep it simple," he said. "At the same time, I try not to be too smart. The fewest amount of pitches you throw a hitter, the greater your chances of getting him out."
Then a crucial element of success for Maddux is that less is more. "In art," Henry James wrote, "economy is always beauty." Not in the eye of every beholder. For batters who must swing at pitches on their fists, or at their knees, or in the crevices of the strike zone where they are least likely to do damage, it is ugly. A tapper here, a pop fly there, a lunge for strike three. Ask Brosius or Girardi, among others. Modern art, one could almost hear a batter mutter. It stinks.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Greg Maddux (Barton Silverman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTA BRAVES ATLANTA BRAVES (84%); ATLANTA BRAVES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES ATLANTA BRAVES (84%); ATLANTA BRAVES (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); GEORGIA, USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); SPORTS AWARDS (74%); ATHLETES (72%); 

PERSON: BERKOW, IRA; MADDUX, GREG GREG MADDUX (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



593 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1560 words

HEADLINE: Record Price Echoes Buying Frenzy of 80's;
Market Boom Propels Skyscraper From White Elephant to Trophy

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
In the latest sign of just how hot the New York real estate market is, a 52-story skyscraper on Fifth Avenue is expected to be sold this month at a record price for office space in this country: $523 a square foot.
The deal for 712 Fifth Avenue and a number of other astronomical prices for office towers in Manhattan reflect the city's booming economy and tight office market, which have convinced buyers that they can charge ever-higher rents to make their investments pay off. 
 But the fierce bidding has some skeptics recalling the boom market of a decade ago, when buyers paid huge sums for Manhattan office towers in the hopes of big increases in rent. Rents do not always go up, the naysayers warn, and if the economy sours, the investors could be left yet again with empty buildings and empty pockets.
In fact, the story of 712 Fifth Avenue is itself a cautionary tale about big ambitions, bad timing and how quickly the real estate market can change. Despite the sale price of $285 million, the developer, A. Alfred Taubman, will not make a dime and by most accounts will have lost tens of millions of dollars on the building.
The reason? It was built during the last boom, in the 1980's, but came on the market just as the 90's recession hit. And the building, between 55th and 56th Streets across the avenue from Trump Tower, has languished as an exquisite white elephant ever since.
Rival bidders and brokers involved in the sale said 712 Fifth Avenue was being bought by the Paramount Group, the investment arm of the Otto family of Germany, who own Spiegel, the mail-order company. At that price, real estate experts say, Paramount would get a 5.5 percent return on its investment -- the kind of narrow margin that gives brokers and lenders cold sweats.
"It's deja vu all over again," said Douglas Durst, who is building Manhattan's first new office tower since 1992, at 4 Times Square. "Just like the 1980's, they're paying prices based on future rents. But these prices are beyond comprehension."
The deal would exceed the record price set by Kato Kagaku, a Japanese corn syrup manufacturer, in 1986, when it bought Tower 49, at 12 East 49th Street, for roughly $500 a square foot. Mr. Taubman's company, Taubman Centers Inc. in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., which owns and develops shopping malls, declined to comment, as did the Paramount Group.
Of course, no one is predicting the sudden collapse of the New York real-estate market. After stagnating for much of the 1990's, rents are rising and office space is tight in both midtown and downtown. If rents continue upward, dire warnings will seem like so much squawking from Chicken Little.
"If you track supply and demand, we see a clear path towards increasing rents," said Stephen B. Siegel, chief executive of Insignia/ESG, a real estate company. "For the next three to five years, it's going to be a strong landlord's marketplace. There's just not enough space to meet demand."
But increasingly, some real estate operators say, trophy buildings, and even some not-so-grand properties, are selling for prices that leave them scratching their heads. The feverish bidding raises the ceilings on prices for all properties. High prices mean smaller profits on rent. Betting on the future can be very risky, particularly for an industry notorious for its cycles of boom and bust, some old-line real estate executives say.
Last month, Conseco, an insurance company based in Carmel, Ind., and Donald J. Trump signed a deal to buy the 50-story General Motors Building in midtown for an awe-inspiring $800 million, or $500 per square foot. Rents cannot be quickly increased for many of the long-term, blue chip tenants. Nor, most real estate experts say, can the top part of the tower be converted to condominiums. But the new owners say there is money to be made on the undervalued retail space and the plaza in front of the building.
Certainly the bargains that seemed so plentiful a few years ago are all but gone. In February, Kent M. Swig, David A. Burris and the Corsair Group bought the 70-year-old Renaissance Revival building at 48 Wall Street for $37.5 million, or $122.55 per square foot. The price is more than 10 times the amount paid for a similar building in lower Manhattan in 1995, and real estate executives said the amount leaves the new investors with little margin for error.
"We'll see a lot of records broken in 1998 because of the dynamics of the market," said Scott Latham, a broker and managing director with CB Richard Ellis, a real estate brokerage. "The buyers spending other people's money will overpay." Mr. Latham added, "It's becoming less of an economic game and more about trophy hunting."
In recent weeks, a group of developers and investors pushed the bidding on the Woolworth Building, the handsome neo-Gothic tower near City Hall, to more than $165 million. Steven C. Witkoff, an investor, and Lehman Brothers had initially dropped out of the bidding at about $140 million, complaining of an overheated market. But last Friday, the partners reversed course, signing a pre-emptive deal for the building for about $155 million.
Despite the Woolworth Building's unfashionable location, investors like Mr. Witkoff argue that the skyscraper is an irreplaceable landmark and therefore a good bet -- unlike, say, the vacant downtown tower at 140 Broadway, for which Larry Silverstein and Morgan Stanley paid $191 million, or $160 per square foot. The Broadway building also needs $50 million in renovations.
Brokers say the reasons for the soaring prices vary. Some buyers will pay a premium for the prestige of a trophy building or because they believe that they can find profits where others cannot. Foreign buyers, particularly those from Germany, who seem to have replaced the Japanese investors of the 1980's, are willing to accept more meager returns. The rapid escalation of prices is also propelled by a gusher of money from Wall Street, speculative investment groups and investors.
"The Germans have been in the forefront of buying prime real estate overseas because they can't get the returns in Germany itself," said Aby Rosen, president of RFR Holdings, a subsidiary of RFR Frankfurt, a real estate company in Frankfurt.
More than a few developers, brokers and investors privately compare the current bidding battles to those of the 1980's, just before a recession sliced property values in half, crushed lenders with large real estate loans and left huge blocks of office space empty.
During the boom, developers poured $18 billion into projects that added 50 million square feet of office space and 106,500 luxury apartments in Manhattan. In 1986, a subsidiary of Mitsui & Company, the Japanese conglomerate, paid $612 million for the Exxon Building in midtown, then the highest price ever for a single office tower in New York City.
Mr. Taubman's skyscraper at 712 Fifth Avenue emerged during this period.
In 1983, two developers, David S. Solomon and G. Ware Travelstead, set about patching together 12 parcels between 55th and 56th Streets for a new building, possibly a luxurious apartment tower. But they tangled with Mr. Trump, who wanted no competition with his new brass and glass condominium across the street, Trump Tower. Mr. Trump joined preservationists, who sought to block the project and preserve the Rizzoli Building and the Coty Building, with its famous Lalique glass windows.
By the time a compromise was struck and construction of what is now an office tower began in 1987, the costs had soared by tens of millions of dollars. Mr. Taubman, who is also the chairman of Sotheby's, had emerged as a partner and eventually took over the project. The tower finally opened in 1990 during a recession, and the building's beautiful but relatively small floors sat empty. The sales brochure said the total costs for 712 Fifth were more than $400 million.
"The building made a statement, but the timing was horrible," said David L. Elovitz, chairman of the Elovitz Group, which was hired in 1989 to market 712 Fifth Avenue.
It was worse than that. By 1990, 28.5 million square feet of midtown office space -- more than the entire market in Seattle, Portland or Tampa -- yawned empty, according to Cushman & Wakefield, a real estate company. It took nearly a decade for the real estate market to recover.
Optimistic buyers dispute any resemblance now to the overheated 1980's, contending that midtown office vacancy rates are at 8.8 percent and falling, not rising, while the average rent is $38.79 per square foot, $5 more than it was a year ago. Interest rates are low. Demand is high, they say, but few office buildings are under construction.
But others point to potentially worrisome signs. The city's current prosperity depends heavily on the Wall Street boom -- which no one thinks can last forever -- while New York's unemployment rate remains above the national average. Also, for the first time in 10 years developers are building speculative office space in Jersey City and Stamford, Conn., and that is likely to have a dampening effect on New York rents.
"We don't have the massive overbuilding we had in the 1980's, when developers overbuilt in every category," said Steven R. Hash, a managing director with Lehman Brothers. "But I'm quick to admit that a lot of these deals don't make sense."

GRAPHIC: Photos: This office tower at 712 Fifth Avenue was built during the 1980's boom, but it opened just as the 90's recession started. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Inside the Woolworth Building, which was sold over the weekend for $155 million. Although bidding for it did not reach the record set by 712 Fifth Avenue, it was high enough to discourage its eventual buyers at first. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TCO (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PARAMOUNT GROUP TAUBMAN CENTERS INC (61%); PARAMOUNT GROUP (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARAMOUNT GROUP PARAMOUNT GROUP (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION OFFICE PROPERTY (92%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RECESSION (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); TRENDS (75%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (72%); RETAILERS (72%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (70%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (66%); WET CORN & VEGETABLE MILLING (50%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V; TAUBMAN, A ALFRED; OTTO FAMILY A ALFRED TAUBMAN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



594 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
As Prices Sink, Hong Kong Curbs Land Sales

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, June 22

 BODY:
Seeking to stop a frightening downward spiral in the property market, Hong Kong's government today announced the halting of its sale of land until next March. The action, which was made public after the stock market closed, was the starkest sign yet of how deeply the Asian crisis was hurting Hong Kong's normally resilient economy.
Property prices drive the broader stock market here, and the government is the biggest single landowner, selling about half of Hong Kong's new residential property at public auctions.
By halting land sales, officials are trying to stop the plunge in prices. And the breadth and duration of the move amount to government intervention on a huge scale in Hong Kong's most important business. 
 "The Asian crisis has brought a lot of suffering and pain to Hong Kong people," said Tung Chee-hwa, the territory's chief executive. "We believe we are in a critical phase and, therefore, we have to be pragmatic."
Mr. Tung announced a series of measures to restore consumer confidence and ease the deepening credit shortage. These include the lowering of import and export duties, a tax rebate and a freeze in government salaries.
Still, Mr. Tung acknowledged that no degree of stimulus would pull Hong Kong out of what is fast becoming its worst downturn since World War II. Property prices have plunged 40 percent in the last six months, unemployment is at a 15-year high, and output declined by 2 percent in the first quarter.
In a further setback for Hong Kong, the Standard & Poor's ratings agency warned today that it might lower the credit rating of the territory's short-term and long-term debt, which would increase government borrowing costs. Standard & Poor's said it had placed Hong Kong on a credit watch list for review because of a "growing likelihood of a protracted economic downturn that could challenge the ability of Kong Kong's government to maintain its prudent fiscal policies and traditional noninterventionist stance toward the economy."
Mr. Tung said the economy would shrink again in the second quarter -- the first official confirmation of recession. Unless the government acted to stabilize property prices, he said, the financial condition of Hong Kong's banks would deteriorate and a crisis of confidence would overwhelm local financial markets.
Influential business executives in the territory applauded the halting of public property sales.
Nonetheless, the government's aggressive intervention may frighten overseas investors, who value Hong Kong in part because the authorities try not to intrude in the markets. Late today, some analysts were already questioning whether Hong Kong would continue linking its currency to the United States dollar at a fixed exchange rate.
Stocks, which had rebounded the previous four sessions, fell sharply, with the benchmark Hang Seng index losing 4.5 percent. In morning trading Tuesday, the Hang Seng was up about 1 percent.
Making matters worse, the Japanese yen declined. Its fall had been broken by joint intervention in the currency markets last week from the United States and Japanese central banks to prop up the yen's value. But after Japan provided no persuasive details in its latest plan to invigorate the economy, the yen weakened again and Hong Kong's market followed.
The action taken here today on property sales is a sign that Hong Kong officials see little hope of a rebound in the yen any time soon.
"I'd be a rare animal if I said the situation in Japan were stable," said Sir Donald Tsang, the territory's Financial Secretary, who devised the new measures in the last two weeks.
Without any boost to the economy from outside, Sir Donald said Hong Kong felt compelled to take the extraordinary action of halting land sales. In the heyday of growth here, property auctions used to draw scores of developers, who bid up the price of land to levels some deemed absurd -- feeling sure that they could build towering apartment complexes and sell the units for millions.
Now, the auctions have become dismal affairs. As for the two million Hong Kong people who already own apartments, Sir Donald said that the 40 percent decline in property prices was "traumatic" and that the government needed to reassure them that their investments were not worthless.
By forgoing auctions for nearly a year, he estimated that the government would lose more than 30 billion Hong Kong dollars, or roughly $3.8 billion (United States) -- resulting in a rare budget deficit of 21.4 billion Hong Kong dollars, or nearly $2.8 billion.
Sir Donald and Mr. Tung reaffirmed Hong Kong's determination to continue linking the currency to the United States dollar. But analysts said today's action raised questions about how much economic hardship Hong Kong was willing to endure before it devalued its currency.
Normally, in an economy with a fixed exchange rate, the government would allow external market forces to depress the price of assets such as property. That is what Hong Kong did over the last six months. Unlike Asian countries that devalued their currencies, Hong Kong defended the dollar by increasing interest rates, even though that devastated the property market by making loans prohibitively expensive.
Now, it seems to be bowing to political pressure to ease the pain. The free fall in property prices hammered both powerful developers and individual homeowners. Hong Kong's newly elected legislators accused the territory's administration of insensitivity toward the plight of ordinary citizens, while the tycoons pressed top officials at private meetings.
Real estate executives said the decision would restore confidence. "It's the signal that the market has been waiting for," said Nicholas Brooke, chairman of Brooke Hillier Parker, a real estate brokerage firm here.
But other experts said the government was engaged in an increasingly desperate struggle to ease the consequences of a burst bubble economy. "Either land prices would have had to give or the peg would have had to go," said Jan Lee, chief economist here of the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tung Chee-hwa, Hong Kong's chief executive, at a press briefing yesterday. (Agence France-Presse)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (99%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; HONG KONG (99%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REAL ESTATE; AUCTIONS; SALES; CREDIT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TAXATION; REBATES; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (87%); CREDIT BUREAUS (86%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); TAX RELIEF (71%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); TAX LAW (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); EXCHANGE RATES (61%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; TUNG CHEE-HWA TUNG CHEE-HWA (73%); SIR DONALD (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



595 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 
Russia to Sell India Two Nuclear Plants
Russia has agreed to sell two nuclear power stations to India, defying calls to punish India because of its nuclear testing. Russia concluded the deal on Sunday, which is worth at least $3 billion to Russia's cash-starved nuclear energy industry. A9 

Iraq Criticizes Arms Monitors
Iraq criticized a United Nations report that said it was still hiding details about its program to develop weapons of mass destruction. The Deputy Prime Minister, Tariq Aziz, said in a letter to the Security Council that the report misrepresented Iraq's willingness to make a full disclosure and fulfill conditions for lifting the embargo on oil sales. A6
 
Oil Producers Feel Pressure
The recent drop in oil prices has resulted in the most serious fall in oil revenue in a decade and has prompted several oil-producing countries to borrow money and grow concerned about political consequences. A6
 
Assurances on Jerusalem
Israel has provided assurances that a proposed major expansion of the city limits of Jerusalem will not extend the city's authority into the West Bank, the State Department said. State Department officials remained critical of the proposal, but tempered earlier statements. A8
 
Peru Official Suggests Pardon
Prime Minister Javier Valle Riestra said that Peru should pardon and expel an American woman jailed for life on charges of terrorism because of mistakes in her trial, but it was unclear whether President Alberto K. Fujimori agreed. A11
 
South Korea Seizes Submarine
South Korean military forces seized a suspected North Korean submarine after it became entangled in fishing nets in South Korean waters, immediately raising tensions between the countries. A10
 
Clinton Pressed on Taiwan
China's Foreign Minister said that during his state visit President Clinton should publicly restate opposition to any move by Taiwan toward independence and that the United States should halt sales of advanced weapons to Taiwan. A10
 
Diplomatic Conflict in Belarus
President Aleksandr Lukashenko of Belarus said he did not understand the fuss over government efforts to oust diplomats from their homes. The United States, Britain, France, Germany, Greece, Italy and Japan have recalled their ambassadors. A9
 
Age of Consent in Britain
Britain's House of Commons voted overwhelmingly to lower the age of consent for homosexuals to 16, the same as for heterosexuals, easily overcoming objections from leaders of the Church of England. A11
 
U.S. Pledge to Help Indonesia
The United States pledged to support Indonesia's economic reform efforts and said it was prepared to provide economic and technological assistance. A10
 
NATIONAL A12-17
 
New Protections Ordered For Medicare Beneficiaries
The Clinton Administration ordered sweeping protections for Medicare beneficiaries, requiring health plans to guarantee access to specialists, to keep medical records confidential and to provide interpreters. A1
 
Health Initiatives for Poor
President Clinton announced low-cost Federal initiatives to encourage hundreds of thousands of poor families who lack health insurance to enroll their children in state and Federal health care programs. A17
 
F.D.A. Withdraws Painkiller
The F.D.A. took the pain-killing drug Duract off the market, the second time in two weeks that the agency has taken such a rare step. A1
 
New Standard on Harassment
The Supreme Court set a restrictive standard for determining when school districts could be found liable under Federal law for a teacher's sexual harassment of a student. A1
 
Tobacco Verdict Overturned
A Florida appeals court struck down a $750,000 jury verdict against Brown & Williamson, ruling that the plaintiff, a smoker with lung disease, filed the suit too late. A12
 
Hoffa Decision Upheld
A Federal judge upheld a Federal monitor's decision in April not to disqualify James P. Hoffa from running for the teamsters' presidency. A12
 
Lewinsky's Book Purchases
Lawyers for Monica S. Lewinsky were said to have reached an agreement with prosecutors to provide records from a bookstore of several of Ms. Lewinsky's purchases. A13
 
Ennis Cosby Slaying Trial
Opening statements were given in the murder trial of the man accused of killing Ennis Cosby. A12
 
Criticism of U.S. Justice
Louise Woodward, the British au pair convicted of killing an 8-month-old Massachusetts boy in her care, said in a BBC television interview that she did not get a fair trial. A15
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-16
 
Explosion in Queens Leaves Seven Injured
A volatile chemical that officials said was improperly stored in an illegal furniture factory in Queens exploded, leaving seven people injured, including at least two teen-agers who may have been working there in violation of Federal regulations. B1
 
New Effort Against Bacteria
New York City's business community and six top hospitals are forging a novel alliance to detect, identify and, if all goes well, reduce the levels of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in the city's hospitals. B1
 
Dangerous Chemicals Found
Police officers responding to a report of a burglary in the Bronx found a basement full of chemicals, some of them believed to be radioactive and flammable, the authorities said. B3
 
Memorial for Linda McCartney
Paul McCartney, his children and 400 friends and relatives gathered at Riverside Church in Manhattan for a memorial tribute to Linda McCartney, who grew up in Scarsdale. B8
 
OBITUARIES B11
 
ARTS E1-10
 
FASHION B10
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-8
 
Pessimism on Park Grizzly
Two wildlife biologists reported that the number of grizzly bears in and around Yellowstone National Park might be much lower than previous estimates, and that the outlook for critical elements of the bears' habitat was poor. F2
 
HEALTH F7
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-24
 
Cisco to Go It Alone
The chief executive of Cisco Systems said in an interview that the company had tried but failed to forge partnerships with Lucent Technologies and Northern Telecom and now intended to continue alone in defending its leadership in the market for advanced data networking equipment. D1
 
Hong Kong Halts Land Sales
Hong Kong's government, the biggest single landowner in Hong Kong, said it was halting sales of its land until March, a sign that the Asian crisis was deeply hurting Hong Kong's normally resilient economy. D1
 
G.M. Deal in China
General Motors said it would invest $100 million in a joint venture with a Chinese company to make pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles in northeastern China. D3
 
Broderbund Software Sold
The Learning Company said it had agreed to acquire Broderbund Software, a rival producer of educational software, in a stock swap valued at $420 million. D2
 
Business Digest D1
 
EDITORIAL A18-19
 
Editorials: Harassment in the schools; cleaning up construction; the Zapruder film; a collapse in Hong Kong property.
 
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Chess F6
 
Public Lives B2
 
Crossword E6
 
Weather C7

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); INDIA (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); TAIWAN (93%); BELARUS (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); INDONESIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); FRANCE (79%); ENGLAND (79%); ISRAEL (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (70%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); INDIA (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); TAIWAN (93%); BELARUS (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); INDONESIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); FRANCE (79%); ENGLAND (79%); ISRAEL (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (70%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); MEDICARE (85%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); MEDICAL RECORDS (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (71%); TERRORISM (70%); PARDONS (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (62%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



596 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: NYC;
Celluloid City: Godfather Of Locations

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN 

 BODY:
NEW YORK CITY is taking a pounding from the movie industry this season, what with an overgrown lizard squishing it, a tsunami engulfing it and an asteroid bopping it hard enough to make anyone wish he had a bunker of his own.
This, some are convinced, is Hollywood's way of saying it really loves us. Maybe there is something to that. Cinematically speaking, New York is hot. There were 213 feature films shot here last year, a record, and while the Mayor's Office of Film, Theater and Broadcasting will not say how 1998 is shaping up, the city seems to be doing well enough. 
 If it weren't, the Kaufman Astoria Studios in Queens would presumably not be planning to expand, and a couple of young entrepreneurs would not be trying to build a large movie studio in the Brooklyn Navy Yard. They are far enough along to have received City Hall's go-ahead, provided they also get the necessary private financing by year's end.
"The attraction for a lot of writers and directors is the city itself," said James P. Rutherford, a managing director at J. P. Morgan and the project's financial adviser. Now, once the New York exterior shots are taken care of, actors and crews usually trek back to Los Angeles for the indoor scenes. In theory, a Hollywood-style operation in the Navy Yard would keep them hanging around, and spending money, the whole time.
"We just want to make it easy for the people who want to be here," Mr. Rutherford said.
New York's appeal to moviemakers goes back a long way, a point that was reaffirmed the other day when the American Film Institute came up with its 100 best American films of all time.
The howls of protest over this list were immediate and, many would say, justified. How, they asked, did "Dances With Wolves" qualify (No. 75) but nothing by Ernst Lubitsch or Preston Sturges? The absence of any Audrey Hepburn movie other than the plodding "My Fair Lady" (No. 91) is reason alone to arouse suspicion; take it from someone who has been in love with her since he first saw "Breakfast at Tiffany's."
All the same, the Top 100 includes many indisputably great films, and nearly a quarter of them, 23, are set in this city, entirely or in part. All were not shot here. But even if filmed on sound stages, New York was their backdrop, including No. 1, "Citizen Kane," and No. 100, "Yankee Doodle Dandy."
No other place is remotely as popular, and the city does even better in the Top 50, where it figures in 15 films, or 30 percent. Among them are the first two "Godfather" movies (ranked Nos. 3 and 32), "All About Eve" (16) "Raging Bull" (24) "Annie Hall" (31) "Rear Window" (42) and "Taxi Driver" (47).
(Confession: Rigorous standards were bent slightly to include No. 50, "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid." On their way to Bolivia, Butch and Sundance stopped by Coney Island.)
"The fact that Manhattan's a small island, and so many people of diverse backgrounds share it, is one reason the city's such a great destination for film makers," said Bruce Goldstein, who has put together several programs of New York movies for the Film Forum in Greenwich Village.
MR. GOLDSTEIN traces New York movies from the 1920's and 30's, when neighborhoods like Orchard Street and Park Avenue were used to establish class differences, through the New York films noirs of the 40's and 50's, to the falling-apart city of the 70's: a nightmarish vision, he says, that "didn't stop even when things got better."
"The city's so visual," he said. "It always has been, and it still is. Every studio back lot had a New York street, not a Boston street or a San Francisco street."
He, for one, has little use for a "best" list that leaves out a searing New York film like "Sweet Smell of Success." But there are compensations. One could argue that the three top-rated films all make important nods to the city: "Citizen Kane" and "The Godfather" for sure, in first and third place, but also "Casablanca," ranked No. 2 and not included in the earlier count of 23 New York films.
You are perhaps shocked, shocked, to hear that the city figures in that Humphrey Bogart classic? It does.
When a German officer speculates about taking over New York, Bogart tells him, "There are certain sections of New York, major, that I wouldn't advise you to try to invade." With that Gotham spirit, World War II was won.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marlon Brando in "The Godfather," set in New York. (Paramount Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FILM INSTITUTE J P MORGAN DELAWARE (55%); J P MORGAN DELAWARE (55%); ALL ABOUT SPORTS (50%); AMERICAN FILM INSTITUTE (59%); AMERICAN FILM INSTITUTE (59%); US NAVY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FILM INSTITUTE AMERICAN FILM INSTITUTE (59%); AMERICAN FILM INSTITUTE (59%); US NAVY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS FILM (92%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); CITIES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); TRENDS (70%); MAYORS (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); NAVIES (68%); RANKINGS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE SIR GEORGE YOUNG (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



597 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 96 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
J. F. LEHMAN TO BUY SPECIAL DEVICES FOR $296 MILLION

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Special Devices Inc., a maker of triggers for the inflation of automotive air bags, said yesterday that it had agreed to be acquired by a unit of J. F. Lehman & Company for $37 a share, or about $296 million. J. F. Lehman, based in New York, is a private equity fund that invests in the aerospace, engineering and manufacturing industries. Special Devices, based in Newhall, Calif., also makes products in tactical missiles and military crew escape systems. It employs more than 1,200 people in California, Arizona and Illinois and had revenue of $140.5 million in 1997.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SDII (NASDAQ) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS332993 AMMUNITION (EXCEPT SMALL ARMS) MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3483 AMMUNITION EX. FOR SMALL ARMS (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: SPECIAL DEVICES INC; LEHMAN, J F, & CO SPECIAL DEVICES INC (96%); J F LEHMAN & CO INC (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: SPECIAL DEVICES INC; LEHMAN, J F, & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); ENGINEERING (88%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (86%); PRIVATE EQUITY (84%); MUTUAL FUNDS (84%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



598 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 23, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Syracuse's Rating Falls

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: SYRACUSE

 BODY:
Two national investor agencies have downgraded Syracuse's long-term bond rating, which could make the city more costly to run.
Moody's Investors Service dropped Syracuse's rating yesterday to its lowest point since 1938, citing the city's money shortages, declining revenues and heavy borrowing. 
 Moody's dropped the city's rating from A3 to Baa1. Syracuse had maintained an A-level rating for 60 years. Standard & Poor's dropped the city's rating from A to BBB.
The new ratings characterize the city as a medium-grade investment risk. Lowered ratings mean the city must pay higher interest rates for the money it borrows through bonds.
The City Director of Administration, Kenneth Mokrzycki, said yesterday that Syracuse was trying to reverse the trend of declining revenues, but until there was a major change, more short-term borrowing was likely.
Moody's said signs of the city's weakened finances were its need to borrow to shore up its cash flow and the possible need for $61 million more in short-term borrowing in the new fiscal year.
Standard & Poor's cited the heavy short-term borrowing as the main reason for its decision to downgrade the city's rating.
Mayor Roy Bernardi has proposed a one-year salary freeze and the elimination of 77 jobs to cope with the city's budget difficulties.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE; STANDARD & POOR'S CORP MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE; STANDARD & POOR'S CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE (NY); UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS FINANCIAL RATINGS (93%); BONDS (91%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CASH FLOW (77%); BUDGETS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); TRENDS (72%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998



599 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 5; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: JAZZ FESTIVAL REVIEW;
So Emotional, So Thoughtful

BYLINE: By PETER WATROUS 

 BODY:
The singer Ruben Blades, who performed as part of the JVC Jazz Festival at Carnegie Hall on Sunday night, has had one of the odder careers in music, moving from the position of office boy at Fania records in New York to Panamanian presidential candidate. Along the way he made some of New York salsa's most important records, as a singer with Willie Colon and, on his own, recordings that took on the Americas as their subject and delved into politics and culture with long narrative works that made pop music profoundly literate. Where most pop and dance music articulate little and suggest plenty, Mr. Blades articulated everything and suggested it as well.
He has clearly been struggling with what to do with himself, working as an actor in Hollywood, placing himself brilliantly as the elder Salvador Agron in Paul Simon's "Capeman." And he rarely sings anymore. That's too bad. Mr. Blades, when he was in the middle of his big push to fuse the English- and Spanish-speaking worlds in his music during the mid-1980's, seemed poised to become the only salsa singer -- and the term limits his ambition and abilities -- to reach the international audiences so easily reached by a handful of Brazilian singers. 
 But just as clearly, Mr. Blades hasn't forgotten his subject; on Sunday night, he joked that Spanish should be everybody's second language, because when the United States economy collapses, Americans can find work south of the border.
Though he was struggling with a cold, Mr. Blades, originally from Panama, infused his singing with great intelligence and emotionalism. He's one of those rare singers able to give intellectually and provide for a dance without alienating either constituency. He's the professor that dances, and throughout the concert he exuded deep confidence and cool without arrogance. The audience, nearly filling the hall, gave him a standing ovation on his entrance, knowing exactly what role he plays in the larger culture.
The concert began in earnest with the second song, "Buscando Guyaba" ("Looking for Guava"), a tune unlike much of his material in that it works metaphorically and is happy. The song, from one of the largest-selling salsa records, his own "Siembra" (Fania), moves at a sunny pace, and Mr. Blades repeated his improvisations from the album, adding new ones to it. The medium-tempo groove and Jimmy Bosch's roaring trombone solo made people feel good.
He dipped into later, more political work, including a song about El Salvador, "El Padre Antonio y el Monaguillo Andres," which he sang in a pop style. His material regularly changed rhythm. The harmonies, with their odd movements, underscored the words. By the time he had finished, with a review of his work covering nearly 30 years, Mr. Blades had positioned himself as a major cultural figure unlimited by idiom, language or nationality.
The concert had opened with a set by the percussionist Pancho Sanchez and his Latin jazz group. They played easygoing, smooth music that had a dreamy feel to it, almost out of focus. Then Mongo Santamaria showed up to play congas on one tune, and with his hard slap, lifted the music up. Mr. Sanchez picked up the shekere, and the music became taut and swinging. The audience loved it, giving Mr. Santamaria a standing ovation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ruben Blades singing in a JVC Jazz Festival concert at Carnegie Hall. (Jack Vartoogian)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TICKER: VOJ (FRA) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (58%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: PANAMA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: VICTOR CO OF JAPAN LTD (58%); CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PANAMA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; REVIEWS; JVC JAZZ FESTIVAL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (87%); MUSIC REVIEWS (78%); MUSIC GENRES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); POLITICS (77%); MULTILINGUALISM (75%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); TERM LIMITS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: BLADES, RUBEN; WATROUS, PETER DAVID DAVIS (73%); PAUL MARTIN 'PAUL M' SIMON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1998



600 of 784 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1556 words

HEADLINE: THE COOKING SCHOOL REPORT;
France Or U.S.? Now It's A Hard Choice

BYLINE: By AMANDA HESSER 

 BODY:
IT used to be that if you wanted to become a chef, you were expected to go to cooking school in Paris. There you learned classic technique, the organization of the French kitchen and discipline under the critical eye of French instructors. Words like souffle, galantine and fricassee trickled into your vocabulary, a chef's knife became an extension of your hand.
And when you returned to the United States, you were practically guaranteed to land a job at a top restaurant.
But over the last decade, the culinary world has changed. Cuisines fused, and American kitchens were transformed from French food factories into dens of creativity. Restaurants began relying on local produce and a home-grown sensibility. And as they prospered, they created a new demand for chefs that a handful of schools abroad could not satisfy. Cooking schools have since sprouted all over this country -- there are now almost 800 -- and French cuisine is only part of the curriculum. 
 Today, when we go out to eat, the dishes we order more often reflect the values of schools like the Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, N.Y., or Johnson & Wales in Providence, R.I., than of any revered Paris institution. Consider the July issue of Food & Wine magazine, which hails the 10 new chefs it considers the best in the country: 7 were trained in the United States.
But nowhere is the break with the past clearer than in a comparison of the Culinary Institute, the most influential school in the United States, with its counterpart in France, Le Cordon Bleu in Paris.
Le Cordon Bleu has not wavered in its allegiance to French cooking -- choux pastry and beurre blanc are as much in its blood as ever, and its cuisine focus remains purely French.
The Culinary Institute teaches French technique, too, but it is more interested in introducing students to the world of cooking, the business of running a restaurant and even how to cope with it all, with classes like stress reduction and personal health.
The institute's campus is on a hill, high over the Hudson River in what was a Jesuit seminary before cooks wielding whisks descended upon it in 1972. Today, there is no mistaking you are at a cooking school. The names of the buildings read like advertisements for the food industry. The General Foods Nutrition Center houses one of the school's four restaurants, which are staffed by students and open to the public. The Conrad N. Hilton Library is filled with cookbooks and a sidewalk of the stars, lined with clay handprints and photos of chefs like Jeremiah Tower and Eric Ripert.
It also houses the Danny Kaye Theater (yes, the entertainer), which looks like a lecture hall, except that, instead of a podium, there is an up-to-the-minute demonstration kitchen, complete with overhead mirrors and television screens displaying close-ups of the stove and work area.
Starting at 7:30 A.M., the campus crawls with 2,100 students, knife cases in tote and toques bobbing. In 36 spacious teaching kitchens, the air is filled with the sounds of mixers whirring, knives tapping on cutting boards and the occasional roar of an instructor. Some students are fresh-faced, right out of high school, some are grayish, an unusual mix with an average starting age of 23. Yet there is a powerful feeling of solidarity: everyone is here to cook.
The 103-year-old Cordon Bleu looks a bit worn in comparison. It is squeezed into a narrow building in a quiet residential area of the Left Bank in Paris. The classrooms are less modern and smaller than the Culinary Institute's. But the atmosphere is more personal, with a student-to-instructor ratio of 10 to 1, compared with 17 to 1 at the Culinary Institute. There is no library and no restaurant, not even a school cafeteria.
But Le Cordon Bleu doesn't aspire to a campus environment. A temple is more like it, with students as worshipers who have made the pilgrimage to learn the secret of cooking and to take it back home.
"Let's face it," said Lindsay Gott, a student from San Francisco, "it's Paris, and the enthusiasm about food that's here, you feel it."
It is certainly something the Culinary Institute lacks. Tucked away in upstate New York, it suffers from the insularity of many campuses. Students have little exposure to restaurants. There is a wine club, an ice-carving club, even a cigar club, but few field trips to restaurants in New York City.
The institute applies a university philosophy to its curriculum, too. There are a 21-month program for an associate's degree and a 38-month program for a bachelor's degree. As cooking schools go, that is a lengthy commitment. (Le Cordon Bleu's program lasts nine months.) But students at the institute are earning a college degree -- an associate in occupational studies or a bachelor of professional studies -- approved by the State Board of Regents.
"Nowadays, just to be a great culinarian isn't enough," Tim Ryan, the school's senior vice president, said, "People need to have the business acumen, the business skills."
So bachelor's degree candidates must study cuisine and pastry, management, economics and psychology. "We do want to stress balance and healthier living, so people stay healthier, livelier and in touch with their creative forces," Mr. Ryan said.
Students also spend four weeks at the school's recently opened Greystone campus in St. Helena, Calif., visiting wineries, restaurants and farms.
The bachelor's program, a school spokesman said, is a response to the change in perception of chefs. In census polls of the 1970's, a chef was considered a domestic servant, not, as today, a professional.
In Paris, however, being a chef has a long tradition of respect. Le Cordon Bleu's three-semester program is designed for students to master one thing: French technique.
Students -- whose average age is 26 -- are first taught the fundamentals, from technique to palate education. The second semester focuses on French regional cooking, and the third refines skills and lets students unleash their creativity on classic dishes.
But they never learn how to run a restaurant. "We are only dealing with hands-on culinary training at the highest level," Andre J. Cointreau, president of the school, said. Many prefer this to learning how to fold napkins and calculate costs.
"I really care about cooking," said Frankie Carl, 45, a New Yorker in her final semester. "I don't care about the business side of it. I'd hire someone for that."
The Culinary Institute tries to keep up with the restaurant industry. In its baking kitchens are installed stone-deck ovens like those used in many bread bakeries, and the school has added instruction on slow-fermentation breads made with organic flours, a big departure from the hotel rolls taught at most cooking schools. (Le Cordon Bleu still uses a convection oven.) And in the St. Andrew's Cafe, the school's light-cuisine restaurant, students are taught to use a wood-fired pizza oven and rotisserie.
In the classrooms, though, students are merely introduced to emerging cuisines of the world. Students take an Asian cuisine course that lasts only seven days: three days for Chinese cooking, two days for Japanese, a day for Thai and one for Vietnamese.
At the Greystone campus, in the former Christian Brothers winery, the school offers continuing-education courses ranging from wedding cakes to food writing to "fire, spice and the global grill."
This is where Le Cordon Bleu suffers most in comparison. The French school sniffs at trends and ignores fads. Though it has added a wine course, cheese instruction and a few continuing-education courses, there have been no major shifts over recent years in the way it teaches classic technique. Patricia Gastaud Gallagher, the academic director, says the school is paying more attention to seasonal ingredients, but a class being taught in April was making lamb tart using tasteless winter tomatoes.
In some ways, Le Cordon Bleu seems frozen in time. A brochure showcases pulled-sugar works and fish en gelee. It is difficult to imagine such antiquities enticing anyone to become a chef.
Yet, the school has a waiting list and has opened a new outpost, in Australia, adding to those in London, Tokyo and Ottawa.
Le Cordon Bleu's greatest strengths are its site and its short program. Some students -- especially career-changers -- value how quickly one can earn a degree and the total immersion in the food culture of Paris.
The grand diplome in cuisine and pastry can be earned in 12 months, including a 3-month restaurant internship. And in that year, the student will come out with a thorough understanding of a cuisine. Not just any cuisine, but one whose techniques form the base of most Western cooking.
The Culinary Institute's approach -- introducing students to the world of cooking, rather than mastering it -- is both the school's edge and its fault. Students see what the culinary world has to offer, but it is merely a starting point, like any undergraduate program.
But if you are an aspiring chef that starting point will be a decisive influence on the shape of your career. You may no longer need to go to France to learn to cook, but if you want to serve foie gras dusted with five-spice powder in Los Angeles, New York and Tokyo, you may need to stay here to learn how to do it.

GRAPHIC: Photos: FRENCH ALLEGIANCE -- Outside the 103-year-old Cordon Bleu in Paris, students relax after classes that focus on classic French cooking techniques. (Owen Franken); THE AMERICAN WAY -- At the Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, N.Y., students learn business skills, as well as how to cook, and earn college degrees. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CULINARY INSTITUTE OF AMERICA; CORDON BLEU, LE (FRENCH COOKING SCHOOL) FOOD & WINE (55%); CULINARY INSTITUTE OF AMERICA (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: CULINARY INSTITUTE OF AMERICA; CORDON BLEU, LE (FRENCH COOKING SCHOOL) CULINARY INSTITUTE OF AMERICA (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COOKING AND COOKBOOKS; RESTAURANTS RESTAURANTS (90%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (70%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); 

PERSON: HESSER, AMANDA

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1998

 
