

801 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Import 'Em, Revive 'Em, Dress 'Em Nice

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

 BODY:
ACCORDING to all current maps the theater district known as Broadway is still in Manhattan, while its British counterpart, the West End, is firmly based in London. Yet a majority of the items in the list below might have been culled from either place. This was the year of trans-Atlantic theater in New York, when Anglo-American cooperation (a subject wittily excoriated this season in Caryl Churchill's ''Drunk Enough to Say I Love You?'' at the Public Theater) produced a hearty crop of expertly mounted -- and in some cases transcendent -- productions. The year's best new musical (''Billy Elliot'') originated in the West End, and the most important New York premiere (''Blasted'') was a production of a show first seen in London more than a decade ago.
 Otherwise revivals, whether imported or homegrown, ruled, a trend that, like the heavy reliance on pretested British fare, confirmed how risk-averse New York producers remain. Here's hoping that a darkened economic climate might just, perversely, inspire a more adventurous spirit. 
 BILLY ELLIOT This West End hit about ballet dreams in a coal-mining town in the age of Thatcher combines old-fashioned-musical sentimentality with revitalizing forms of storytelling. Directed by Stephen Daldry and choreographed by Peter Darling (with songs by a winningly down-to-earth Elton John), it's a show that gives irresistible form to the universal urge to dance.
 BLASTEDSarah Kane's uncompromising study of human cruelty, inspired by accounts of Bosnian war crimes, arrived in New York like a thunderclap 13 years after its London debut. Sarah Benson's superlative production for the Soho Rep -- featuring the bravest cast in New York -- is a bracing reminder of live theater's power to shock audiences into new paths of thought.
 BOEING BOEING A wheezy old French comedy given the makeover of the season by the director Matthew Warchus, who translated the geometry of basic farce into the dizzy realm of higher mathematics. The spirited cast is headed by a brilliant Mark Rylance, who seems to be communing with a host of the great clowns of the silent movies.
 DIVIDING THE ESTATEHorton Foote's shrewd, gimlet-eyed look at Texans behaving badly in hard times provided Broadway's most sharply and delicately etched family portrait. Brought to life (under Michael Wilson's direction) by a big, fine-tuned cast, including Elizabeth Ashley and the peerless Hallie Foote (the playwright's daughter) as the most grasping of a set of grown-up siblings whose financial predicament should strike chords of recognition among newly cash-strapped Americans.
 GYPSY Perhaps the greatest of Broadway musicals, this oft-revived classic assumes a scary new visceral charge with Patti LuPone at her fiercest as the stage mother to end all stage mothers. The nonagenarian Arthur Laurents, the show's original librettist, directed with the energy and ruthlessness of youth, with a breakout performance by Laura Benanti in the title role of the wallflower turned stripper.
 HAIR This revival of the quintessential flower-child musical, directed by Diane Paulus with a sensitivity and inventiveness that cleared away any lingering clouds of stale incense, is Broadway bound. But it's hard to imagine it ever surpassing its al fresco incarnation at the Delacorte Theater in Central Park, where the summer sunset lent the perfect elegiac glow to a surprisingly poignant depiction of a hopeful generation of youth devoured by time.
 LIZA'S AT THE PALACE... The most accomplished and affecting demonstration of star worship as pagan religion that we're likely to see on Broadway for a long time. Liza Minnelli may have only a limited vocal and physical range these days, but she gets endless mileage out of every note and gesture, and she seems to keep growing in power in this song-and-dance show, astutely staged by Ron Lewis. Applause is as life sustaining to Ms. Minnelli as it is Peter Pan's Tinker Bell, and she makes the audience members feel (rightly) that they're as essential to the show as she is. 
 THE SEAGULL Ian Rickson's production, starring Kristin Scott Thomas, was a thrilling reminder of why Chekhov is the greatest of all modern dramatists. An impeccably paced revival that provided the sort of thoughtful, insightful and thoroughly balanced ensemble acting that Chekhov demands and almost never receives.
 SOUTH PACIFIC Perfection. The director Bartlett Sher -- and an inspired, emotionally transparent cast led by Kelli O'Hara and Paulo Szot -- transformed a Rodgers and Hammerstein war horse into a galloping, younger-than-springtime colt. A show that brings the past into the present without the usual winks or quotation marks, making a strong case for the end of the age of irony in musical revivals.
 SUNDAY IN THE PARK WITH GEORGEStephen Sondheim and James Lapine's 1984 musical about the agony of making art was retooled and reborn in this production, staged by the British director Sam Buntrock. The digital-video design allowed us to watch with fresh eyes as its protagonist, the pointillist painter Georges Seurat (Daniel Evans), drew his world into being. Though ''Sunday'' provided the canniest use of 21st-century technology on Broadway this year, its top-drawer cast, led by Mr. Evans and Jenna Russell, never allowed us to forgot the warm human complexity at the show's center. An ideal Sondheimian balance of heart and mind.
 And a special lifetime achievement award for sustained sharpness in blunt times to ''Forbidden Broadway'': For more than a quarter of a century Gerard Alessandrini's satirical revue has been an invaluable index and critical guide not only to each season's shows but also to the changing tone and temper of New York theater. Mr. Alessandrini has announced that the show's latest edition ''Forbidden Broadway Goes to Rehab'' will be its last. Happily, he is leaving on a high note. So let's allow Mr. Alessandrini to have the last word on the state of Broadway in 2008, with some directives to producers, inspired by a song in ''Mary Poppins'': 
 Feed the burbs, tepid a show Tepid, vapid titles they know. Feed the burbs, humongous size While overhead a scared actress flies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above right, Kelli O'Hara (in sailor suit) and Danny Burstein (in coconuts) in ''South Pacific.'' Peter Sarsgaard and Kristin Scott Thomas in ''The Seagull.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); MUSIC (88%); FILM DIRECTORS (87%); TRENDS (79%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); DANCE (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); BALLET (75%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); FILM (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); COAL MINING (51%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (52%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%)

PERSON: ELTON JOHN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2008



802 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; ARCHITECTURE; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: It Was Fun Till the Money Ran Out

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
WHO knew a year ago that we were nearing the end of one of the most delirious eras in modern architectural history? What's more, who would have predicted that this turnaround, brought about by the biggest economic crisis in a half-century, would be met in some corners with a guilty sense of relief?
 Before the financial cataclysm, the profession seemed to be in the midst of a major renaissance. Architects like Rem Koolhaas, Zaha Hadid, Frank Gehry, and Jacques Herzog and Pierre de Meuron, once deemed too radical for the mainstream, were celebrated as major cultural figures. And not just by high-minded cultural institutions; they were courted by developers who once scorned those talents as pretentious airheads. 
 Firms like Forest City Ratner and the Related Companies, which once worked exclusively with corporations that were more adept at handling big budgets than at architectural innovation, seized on these innovators as part of a shrewd business strategy. The architect's prestige would not only win over discerning consumers but also persuade planning boards to accede to large-scale urban projects like, say, Mr. Gehry's Atlantic Yards in Brooklyn.
 But somewhere along the way that fantasy took a wrong turn. As commissions multiplied for luxury residential high-rises, high-end boutiques and corporate offices in cities like London, Tokyo and Dubai, more socially conscious projects rarely materialized. Public housing, a staple of 20th-century Modernism, was nowhere on the agenda. Nor were schools, hospitals or public infrastructure. Serious architecture was beginning to look like a service for the rich, like private jets and spa treatments.
 Nowhere was that poisonous cocktail of vanity and self-delusion more visible than in Manhattan. Although some important cultural projects were commissioned, this era will probably be remembered as much for its vulgarity as its ambition. 
 Every major architect in the world, it seemed, was designing an exclusive residential building here. With its elaborate faux-graffiti barrier, Herzog & de Meuron's 40 Bond Street was among the most indulgent, but it had plenty of rivals, including projects by Daniel Libeskind, UNStudio, Mr. Koolhaas and Norman Foster. 
 Together these projects threatened to transform the city's skyline into a tapestry of individual greed.
 Now that high-end bubble has popped, and it is unlikely to return anytime soon. Jean Nouvel's 75-story residential tower adjoining the Museum of Modern Art has been delayed indefinitely. And developers now seem loath to undertake similar projects. Even if the economy turns around, the public's tolerance for outsize architectural statements that serve the rich and self-absorbed has already been pretty much exhausted.
 This is not all good news. A lot of wonderful architecture is being thrown out with the bad. Although most of Mr. Nouvel's MoMA tower would have been devoted to luxury apartments, for instance, it would have allowed the museum next door to expand its gallery space significantly. It would also have been one of the most spectacular additions to the Manhattan skyline since the Chrysler Building. 
 And it would be a shame if the recession derailed promising cultural projects like Renzo Piano's new Whitney Museum of American Art in the meatpacking district or Mr. Foster's interior renovation of the Beaux-Arts New York Public Library on Fifth Avenue.
 Architecture firms, meanwhile, are suffering like everyone else. With so many projects postponed and so few new ones coming in, many are already laying off employees. Aspiring architects who are just emerging from graduate programs are likely to move on to more secure professions, which could spell a smaller talent pool in the future.
 Still, if the recession doesn't kill the profession, it may have some long-term positive effects for our architecture. President-elect Barack Obama has promised to invest heavily in infrastructure, including schools, parks, bridges and public housing. A major redirection of our creative resources may thus be at hand. If a lot of first-rate architectural talent promises to be at loose ends, why not enlist it in designing the projects that matter most? That's my dream anyway.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Herzog & de Meuron's 40 Bond Street, an exclusive residential building -- one of many such projects new to Manhattan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY IWAN BAAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (71%); COMPANY STRATEGY (69%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (67%); PUBLIC HOUSING (66%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (63%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%)

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (74%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2008



803 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: New Yorkers, Real or Nearly So, Taking On New Positions in Washington

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Remember the 2008 presidential campaign? Just about a year ago, starry-eyed New Yorkers dreamed of national tickets topped by Hillary Rodham Clinton, Rudolph W. Giuliani and even Michael R. Bloomberg. 
 Which would have been remarkable, because no New Yorker, depending on how you define New Yorker, has been nominated for president or vice president since Jack Kemp, who as a United States representative from Buffalo was Bob Dole's running mate in 1996. Before Mr. Kemp, Geraldine A. Ferraro, who represented Queens in Congress, ran for vice president on Walter F. Mondale's ticket in 1984, and lost. No real New Yorker has been elected president since 1944, when Franklin D. Roosevelt ran for a fourth term.
 What a difference a year makes. 
 Forgotten, but not gone, Mr. Giuliani may be back again just a year from now, running statewide for governor or senator. Mr. Bloomberg wants to keep his job as mayor for four more years. Mrs. Clinton is going to Washington, but as President-elect Barack Obama's choice to be secretary of state. 
 So is Shaun Donovan, Mr. Bloomberg's housing commissioner, as secretary of housing and urban development. Timothy F. Geithner, who was president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, has been nominated for treasury secretary. (The very first cabinet secretaries who dealt with foreign affairs and the young nation's treasury, John Jay and Alexander Hamilton, were New Yorkers, too).
 Assuming they are confirmed by the Senate, that would mean three New Yorkers serving simultaneously in the cabinet for the first time since Lyndon Johnson was president. His secretaries from New York included Dean Rusk at the State Department; John W. Gardner at the former Department of Health, Education and Welfare; and Robert C. Weaver, the first black cabinet member, at the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
 Mr. Weaver, in a comment to The New York Times four decades ago that reverberates somewhat differently today, said: ''I don't delude myself into thinking that I've ceased being a Negro because I've received recognition in the mainstream. I would like to feel that I was appointed not because I was a Negro, but maybe in spite of that fact.'' 
 The Weaver and Gardner appointments, in particular, signaled President Johnson's Great Society strategy -- an urban manifesto that would wind up being seriously undermined by Mr. Rusk's expensive prosecution of the war in Vietnam. 
 Mr. Obama may be signaling a similar commitment by creating a White House Office of Urban Policy, which is expected to be led by Adolfo Carrion Jr., the Bronx borough president. 
 One challenge in assessing New York's political legacy in Washington is how to define a New Yorker. Dwight D. Eisenhower and Richard M. Nixon were living in the city when they first won the presidency (although Mr. Nixon voted by absentee ballot in 1968 as a transplanted Californian). Mrs. Clinton hails from Arkansas and Illinois. Mr. Bloomberg was born in Boston. 
 Which brings up Caroline Kennedy, who wants to succeed Mrs. Clinton in the Senate. Critics have said she has not done enough to earn the seat. But supporters have countered by asking whether a first-term congressman from upstate is any more entitled to the seat, or whether a woman is any more entitled just because she is a woman, or whether a Hispanic politician is just because he or she happens to be Hispanic.
 Though her grandfather Joseph P. Kennedy was a powerful Boston millionaire and her father a Massachusetts senator before he became president, Ms. Kennedy was born in New York and grew up in the city. She graduated from Columbia Law School. She raised her family here. She helped raise millions of dollars in private contributions for the city's public schools.
 Like Mrs. Clinton, she would fill a seat once held by Daniel Patrick Moynihan, and Mr. Moynihan's widow says he would be pleased. 
 ''Caroline is a very intelligent, serious person with a long interest in government and the Constitution,'' Elizabeth Moynihan said in an interview. ''As a U.S. senator, she could be a great help to New York. I'm sure Pat would be thrilled to see her in that seat.'' 
 Her appeal is broader than some people might think. When she worked as a copy girl at The Daily News in 1977 she once drove the columnist Jimmy Breslin to the 109th Precinct station house in Queens on a story. The cops and their commanders froze in awe. She was bigger than Mr. Breslin. Bigger than the story he was sent to cover. And, if any proof of her pragmatism or grit was needed, consider the first thing she did when she got back to the office: She filed an overtime claim. To which an editor remarked, ''She's Joseph P. Kennedy's granddaughter -- don't worry about her.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 1, 2009

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in some editions on Dec. 21 about New Yorkers who have served in presidential cabinets misidentified the position held by one New York politician, Jack Kemp, when he was the Republican vice-presidential candidate in 1996. He was co-director of Empower America, a conservative policy group; he was no longer a United States representative from Buffalo.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: New Yorkers on the Obama team: Hillary Rodham Clinton, the choice for secretary of state
Shaun Donovan, to lead HUD
and Timothy F. Geithner, right, nominated as treasury secretary.(PHOTOGRAPHS, LEFT TO RIGHT, SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES RENE
CLEMENT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 POOL PHOTO BY BRIAN KERSEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (87%); CITY LIFE (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MAYORS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); BALLOTS (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (88%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (71%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); ADOLFO CARRION JR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (51%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2008



804 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: OBAMA EXPANDS RECOVERY PLANS AS OUTLOOK DIMS

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Faced with worsening forecasts for the economy, President-elect Barack Obama is expanding his economic recovery plan and will seek to create or save 3 million jobs in the next two years, up from a goal of 2.5 million jobs set just last month, several advisers to Mr. Obama said Saturday.
 Even Mr. Obama's more ambitious goal would not fully offset as many as 4 million jobs that some economists are projecting might be lost in the coming year, according to the information he received from advisers in the past week. That job loss would be double the total this year and could push the nation's unemployment rate past 9 percent if nothing is done.
 The new job target was set after a meeting last Tuesday in which Christina D. Romer, who is Mr. Obama's choice to lead his Council of Economic Advisers, presented information about previous recessions to establish that the current downturn was likely to be ''more severe than anything we've experienced in the past half-century,'' according to an Obama official familiar with the meeting. Officials said they were working on a plan big enough to stimulate the economy but not so big to provoke major opposition in Congress. 
 Mr. Obama's advisers have projected that the multifaceted economic plan would cost $675 billion to $775 billion. It would be the largest stimulus package in memory and would most likely grow as it made its way through Congress, although Mr. Obama has secured Democratic leaders' agreement to ban spending on pork-barrel projects.
 The message from Mr. Obama was that ''there was not going to be any spending money for the sake of spending money,'' said Lawrence H. Summers, who will be the senior economic adviser in the White House. 
 Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody's Economy.com, who was an adviser to Senator John McCain's presidential campaign, said, ''My advice is, err on the side of too big a package rather than too little.'' In an interview, Mr. Zandi, who lately has advised Democratic leaders in Congress, also said he would probably soon raise his own recommendation of a $600 billion stimulus.
 Besides new spending, the Obama plan would provide tax relief for low-wage and middle-income workers of roughly $150 billion, Democrats familiar with the proposal said. The government would probably reduce the withholding of income or payroll taxes so that most workers received larger paychecks as soon as possible in 2009, an Obama adviser said.
 The sorts of jobs Mr. Obama would propose to create involve construction work on roads, mass transit projects, weatherization of government buildings and installation of information technology in medical facilities, among others. 
 The outlines for Mr. Obama's emerging plan, which he is developing in consultation with Congress, including some Republicans, were mostly settled last Tuesday when he met for four hours with economic and policy advisers. Mr. Obama and his family left Saturday for a two-week vacation in Hawaii, his native state, but the advisers will take his guidance -- including instructions to be ''bolder,'' according to one -- and complete a draft in time for his return on Jan. 2.
 The new Congress convenes on Jan. 6. The House and Senate, with larger Democratic majorities, will work to pass a bill for Mr. Obama to sign shortly after his inauguration, on Jan. 20.
 The Obama blueprint covers five main areas of spending and tax breaks: health, education, infrastructure, energy, and support for the poor and the unemployed. 
 Mr. Summers said the president-elect set short- and long-term themes in choosing the plan's components: ''Creating jobs for people who need them, and doing things that need to be done to lay the foundation for an economy that works for middle-class families.''
 At the meeting on Tuesday, Ms. Romer also laid out recommendations from private sector analysts and liberal to conservative economists for a government stimulus that ranged from $800 billion to $1.3 trillion over two years. Those consulted included Martin Feldstein, a conservative economist and longtime Republican presidential adviser, who is at the low end, and Lawrence B. Lindsey, a Federal Reserve governor and Bush administration economist, who has recommended up to $1 trillion. 
 Even before the election, Mr. Feldstein was publicly arguing that whoever was elected should immediately begin working with Congress on a big spending package. Since then, Mr. Feldstein has also been revising his assessment upward as the economy weakened further. ''Without action,'' he wrote in an e-mail exchange, ''the economy will continue to decline rapidly.'' 
 Many decisions about the details have not been made, or are tentative pending consultations with Congress. Several hundred billion dollars could go to states and cities to finance public works and subsidize their health and education programs so that local governments do not have to raise taxes and cut essential programs, steps that would be counterproductive economically.
 The Obama team has a list of $136 billion in infrastructure projects from the National Governors Association that consists mostly of transit construction but also includes port expansions and renewable energy programs. For education, besides money to build and renovate schools, Mr. Obama will call for money to train more teachers, expand early childhood education and provide more college tuition aid.
 Federal money to local governments would come with a ''use it or lose it'' clause under Mr. Obama's plans, advisers say. The president-elect will also propose to direct some money to public and private partnerships for major projects like a national energy grid intended to harness alternative energy sources such as wind power.
 For those ''most vulnerable'' because of the recession, as the Obama team describes the needy and jobless population, the president-elect will propose expanding the length of unemployment compensation, as well as food aid and additional support.
 With millions more Americans losing their health care coverage, either through job losses or because they can no longer afford to pay for insurance, Mr. Obama will propose major new spending to subsidize states' share of Medicaid and their children's health programs, and to expand health care coverage for those who lose insurance from their employers.
 Mr. Obama plans a down payment on his campaign promise to help pay for hospitals and other medical providers to computerize their health records to save billions in paperwork and administrative costs. He might also propose subsidies to train more nurses, both to create jobs now and address a looming shortage in the health professions.
 Mr. Obama has spoken in recent days with the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, and the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi. Last week, Mr. Reid's office sent an e-mail message to senators saying that in conversations with the Obama transition team, ''we have communicated our willingness to work within these parameters as closely as possible and urge all offices to do the same.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Barack Obama, naming picks for top posts last week in Chicago, has told his aides to be bold in addressing economic troubles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A38) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); TAX RELIEF (71%); TAX LAW (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2008



805 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Canada Agrees to Its Own Auto Bailout

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA 

 BODY:
Moving to pre-empt a possible shift of auto production to the United States, the governments of Canada and its Ontario province offered the industry 4 billion Canadian dollars in emergency loans on Saturday.
 Depending on currency fluctuations, the amount is roughly equal to 20 percent of the Bush administration's bailout plan as well as Canada's portion of North American auto production.
 ''I will not fool you,'' Prime Minister Stephen Harper told reporters in Toronto. ''There is obviously money at risk here and there may well be more money at risk going forward.'' 
 But, in words echoed by Dalton McGuinty, the premier of Ontario, Mr. Harper said that a collapse of the auto industry would create ''a huge problem'' for the Canadian economy.
 ''There are literally across the country hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of potentially affected families by the distress of this industry,'' Mr. Harper said. 
 The Canadian auto industry, which exports about 90 percent of its production, accounts for a greater percentage of Canada's manufacturing economy than its parent companies contribute to that of the United States. 
 Many American and Japanese automakers operate factories in Ontario, and so do parts makers that feed plants throughout North America. 
 A loss of the American manufacturers would be a particularly severe blow to Ontario, the most populous province and the home to all of Canada's auto assembly plants. About 400,000 people in Ontario work in the industry, Mr. McGuinty said.
 In addition to the loans, Mr. Harper announced that the government would extend additional insurance to auto parts makers for money owed to them by automakers, and develop a program to finance consumer loans for new car purchases.
 The prime minister suggested that the consumer loan program would also apply to buyers of cars made by Honda and Toyota, companies with extensive operations in Ontario.
 ''We don't want a package that simply helps the Detroit Three,'' Mr. Harper said.
 Unlike the $17.4 billion package announced by President Bush, the Canadian plan, roughly $3.3 billion, is remarkably short on detail, at least publicly. An official who spoke on the condition he not be identified, following Canadian custom, said many of the terms were still being negotiated with the automakers.
 Perhaps the biggest uncertainty hangs over the status of labor agreements between the car companies and the Canadian Auto Workers Union. While Mr. Harper spoke broadly about the need for workers ''to be part of the solution,'' his plan makes no specific demands on the unions.
 During the last round of contract talks, the Canadian union rejected a wage system adopted by the United Auto Workers that places new workers on a lower wage scale.
 Some industry analysts argue that unionized Canadian workers are now significantly more expensive to employ than their American counterparts. But the government official said that several factors, including public health care, differences in pension systems and currency exchange rates, made it difficult to draw that conclusion.
 After the announcement, the president of the Canadian Auto Workers, Ken Lewenza, again rejected suggestions that wages and benefits needed to be reduced.
 ''This has nothing to do with auto workers' wages in the United States and Canada,'' Mr. Lewenza said during a conference call with reporters. He added that concessions made by the union during the last round of contract talks had left the Canadian industry in a competitive position.
 But Mark Meldrum, a business professor at the University of Windsor, based in a city in Ontario that is particularly dependent on auto jobs, said the Canadian union would probably match any concessions offered by the U.A.W. in the United States.
 ''That will be held up as the yardstick,'' he said. ''There has to be wage concessions.''
 Both the prime minister and the premier said a central condition for Canadian assistance would be commitments from the automakers to maintain Canada's 20 percent share of continental production.
 Because the governments' only method of enforcement will be refusing to roll over the loans, Professor Meldrum was skeptical about Canada's ability to police that, or any other, condition.
 ''Canada cannot save the industry,'' he said. ''Canada can only help save the industry.''
 In a brief statement, Chrysler Canada, which is based in Windsor, Ontario, welcomed the government's offer.
 John Gray, the mayor of Oshawa, Ontario, which is the hometown of General Motors of Canada, was more effusive in his praise. ''Hallelujah!'' he told the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation minutes after the announcement. ''It's lifted that cloud which has been hanging over our head.''
 The decision to provide aid is the latest step in a long change by Mr. Harper's Conservative government. Until this fall, it had regularly dismissed suggestions that the federal government had any role to play in assisting the auto industry. But before October's election, it broke with that by promising to help finance the reopening of a Ford engine plant in Windsor, Ontario.
 Under the Canadian plan, General Motors will receive 3 billion Canadian dollars with the balance going to Chrysler. Ford has asked Canada only for a line of credit and is not participating.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); BAILOUTS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (88%); LABOR UNIONS (84%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (74%); FAMILY (73%); PARENT COMPANIES (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (60%)

PERSON: STEPHEN HARPER (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%) ONTARIO, CANADA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2008



806 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: Maybe It Can't: A Trap in Obama's Spending Plan

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
As the recession deepens, President-elect Barack Obama is gearing up to spend hundreds of billions of dollars on public investment projects, counting on them to lift the economy, as they have in the past. 
 But this time that may not happen. Public spending, American style, has worked best in good times, when people have jobs and executives are eager to invest. A new public highway is soon lined -- in good times -- with stores and malls filled with consumers. A dollar spent by government generates three or four from the private sector.
 That symbiosis makes a humming economy hum more, as it did in the 1950s and '60s. But it may not work that way when the American economy is in full retreat, as it was in the 1930s and seems to be today.
 As a measure of the current disaster, the Federal Reserve last week lowered interest rates to an unheard-of near-zero percent and offered in effect to give away money if a fearful nation would only spend it. But panicked by investment losses or fearful for their jobs, people tend to hold back. In such circumstances, a new road could be lined not by shopping malls, but by empty, overgrown land. 
 That is the risk facing Mr. Obama's plan. By January, Congress will probably be asked to approve an outlay of more than $700 billion. Spent in one year on construction, research or equipment, it might well offset the contraction at first. But unless it also revived general confidence, the economy could collapse again, once the money was gone. 
 ''If that spending can't get the private sector going, then it is just a make-work maintenance operation,'' said Stanley Moses, an economist at Hunter College in New York.
 History illustrates how tricky it can be to make public spending work as intended. The many dams Franklin D. Roosevelt's administration built generated an abundance of electricity, lowering its cost so that families could afford to operate the appliances then becoming available. The construction itself put money into workers' pockets. But the appliances were too costly for most families during the Depression, and the manufacturers wouldn't extend credit. For all the money spent by the Roosevelt administration, public investment was failing to jump-start a key private-sector industry.
 His administration was inventive, however, and found a way around the problem by subsidizing installment purchases. That was when appliance production finally rose. In time, installment plans evolved into consumer loans and charge cards, and that helped make the American consumer economy the envy of the world. 
 These symbiotic relationships between the public and private sectors -- playing off each other in ways hard to anticipate and hard to channel -- became an essential ingredient of American prosperity from World War II until the mid-1970s. 
 ''It is not in the nature of a market system to have adequate private investment all of the time,'' said Robert Pollin, co-director of the Political Economy Research Institute at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. ''So we used public investment to smooth things over and improve the climate for private investment.''
 That changed. In the 1970s, the public reacted against high taxes and growing budget deficits, and conservatives argued that putting money in private hands would lift the economy more effectively. Public investment tapered off, and was used less as a tool of economic policy as the economy experienced the increasingly sharp ups and downs of the 1980s, 1990s and the new century. 
 Now, in the opening months of the worst bust since the Great Depression, Mr. Obama is expected to seek sustained outlays over at least two years to repair roads, bridges and waterways; to build and repair public schools; to expand the broadband network; to digitize medical information; to advance green technology. An economic adviser says his goal is ''to encourage private investment, particularly in areas where we have too little investment today, for example, solar systems and wind power.'' 
 But Mr. Obama is bucking a deep private-sector funk, a bit like what Roosevelt described in his first Inaugural Address as ''fear itself -- nameless, unreasoning, unjustified terror which paralyzes needed efforts to convert retreat into advance.'' Borrowers and lenders have pulled back. Business investment has plummeted. So has consumer spending. ''A psychology of bad times is becoming the mindset of the public,'' says Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Research Center, a survey operation.
 Like Roosevelt's dams, Mr. Obama's expenditures will no doubt generate jobs and wages in the construction phase. But in 1937, Roosevelt, thinking that the private sector could sustain itself, pulled back on public spending. Some historians say this was a big reason the economy sank again. . 
 Mr. Obama faces a similar danger. Green-technology spending might spawn a far more efficient solar panel, but investors still might shrink at manufacturing it. What if consumers -- having lost equity in their homes and scrimping on cars, vacations, even college tuition -- were reluctant to buy and install the panels? ''There are so many problems today and no good news, and that is enough to stop the impact of what Mr. Obama does,'' said Mr. Moses of Hunter College. 
 The president-elect and his advisers recognize this danger. But they -- and many others, including some Republicans -- see no other choice. ''The most important thing the new administration can do at a moment when the collective psyche has been so shattered is to spend money now on tangible things,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com, who advised John McCain's presidential campaign. ''People want to see up front a repaired bridge, a new energy technology, a better water system. They want to feel these will have huge benefits down the road, and that might get them spending again.'' 
 Whatever the obstacles, Mr. Obama's plan would mean giving up the view -- widely held since the 1970s by economists, policy makers and business executives -- that the private sector, by itself, is the key source of prosperity and full employment, and government spending is inefficient. 
 Perhaps with that in mind, Mr. Obama evoked as an illustration of his plan's breadth not the desperate 1930s, but the prosperous 1950s and '60s. That was when President Dwight Eisenhower and Congress set out to build the Interstate System of highways -- a gift to an expanding auto industry and to trucking that also linked the country, encouraging all sorts of other investments.
 But there is a big difference between Eisenhower's era and Mr. Obama's. By 1950, the Depression's gloom had been banished by the common effort of World War II, followed by immense postwar demand for American production. Road building was just one public investment that set off huge private outlays. The space program stands out; so does military spending, which spurred computer development and created the Internet. And Medicare, born in the 1960s, became intertwined with private medicine. 
 Such symbiotic successes prompted a French journalist, Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber, to issue a warning to Europe in 1968. In ''The American Challenge,'' a best seller, he wrote that ''the government official, the industrial manager, the economics professor, the engineer and the scientist have joined forces'' to support American economic growth, and that the juggernaut would soon reduce Europe to an American colony.
 He was wrong. Europe outpaced the United States in its embrace of public-private symbiosis. And now Mr. Obama proposes, in effect, to restore the formula inthis country. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ON THE ROAD: In the '50s and '60s, highway building helped a thriving economy grow. These women worked in Iowa in 1967. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RETAILERS (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (71%); APPROVALS (68%); WORLD WAR II (61%); INTEREST RATES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2008



807 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE RECKONING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5021 words

HEADLINE: White House Philosophy Stoked Mortgage Bonfire

BYLINE: By JO BECKER, SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and STEPHEN LABATON; Kitty Bennett contributed reporting.

 BODY:
''We can put light where there's darkness, and hope where there's despondency in this country. And part of it is working together as a nation to encourage folks to own their own home.'' -- President Bush, Oct. 15, 2002 
 This article is by Jo Becker, Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Stephen Labaton.
 WASHINGTON -- The global financial system was teetering on the edge of collapse when President Bush and his economics team huddled in the Roosevelt Room of the White House for a briefing that, in the words of one participant, ''scared the hell out of everybody.''
 It was Sept. 18. Lehman Brothers had just gone belly-up, overwhelmed by toxic mortgages. Bank of America had swallowed Merrill Lynch in a hastily arranged sale. Two days earlier, Mr. Bush had agreed to pump $85 billion into the failing insurance giant American International Group. 
 The president listened as Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, laid out the latest terrifying news: The credit markets, gripped by panic, had frozen overnight, and banks were refusing to lend money. 
 Then his Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., told him that to stave off disaster, he would have to sign off on the biggest government bailout in history. 
 Mr. Bush, according to several people in the room, paused for a single, stunned moment to take it all in. 
 ''How,'' he wondered aloud, ''did we get here?''
 Eight years after arriving in Washington vowing to spread the dream of homeownership, Mr. Bush is leaving office, as he himself said recently, ''faced with the prospect of a global meltdown'' with roots in the housing sector he so ardently championed. 
 There are plenty of culprits, like lenders who peddled easy credit, consumers who took on mortgages they could not afford and Wall Street chieftains who loaded up on mortgage-backed securities without regard to the risk. 
 But the story of how we got here is partly one of Mr. Bush's own making, according to a review of his tenure that included interviews with dozens of current and former administration officials.
 From his earliest days in office, Mr. Bush paired his belief that Americans do best when they own their own home with his conviction that markets do best when let alone. 
 He pushed hard to expand homeownership, especially among minorities, an initiative that dovetailed with his ambition to expand the Republican tent -- and with the business interests of some of his biggest donors. But his housing policies and hands-off approach to regulation encouraged lax lending standards.
 Mr. Bush did foresee the danger posed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored mortgage finance giants. The president spent years pushing a recalcitrant Congress to toughen regulation of the companies, but was unwilling to compromise when his former Treasury secretary wanted to cut a deal. And the regulator Mr. Bush chose to oversee them -- an old prep school buddy -- pronounced the companies sound even as they headed toward insolvency.
 As early as 2006, top advisers to Mr. Bush dismissed warnings from people inside and outside the White House that housing prices were inflated and that a foreclosure crisis was looming. And when the economy deteriorated, Mr. Bush and his team misdiagnosed the reasons and scope of the downturn; as recently as February, for example, Mr. Bush was still calling it a ''rough patch.'' 
 The result was a series of piecemeal policy prescriptions that lagged behind the escalating crisis.
 ''There is no question we did not recognize the severity of the problems,'' said Al Hubbard, Mr. Bush's former chief economics adviser, who left the White House in December 2007. ''Had we, we would have attacked them.''
 Looking back, Keith B. Hennessey, Mr. Bush's current chief economics adviser, says he and his colleagues did the best they could ''with the information we had at the time.'' But Mr. Hennessey did say he regretted that the administration did not pay more heed to the dangers of easy lending practices. And both Mr. Paulson and his predecessor, John W. Snow, say the housing push went too far.
 ''The Bush administration took a lot of pride that homeownership had reached historic highs,'' Mr. Snow said in an interview. ''But what we forgot in the process was that it has to be done in the context of people being able to afford their house. We now realize there was a high cost.''
 For much of the Bush presidency, the White House was preoccupied by terrorism and war; on the economic front, its pressing concerns were cutting taxes and privatizing Social Security. The housing market was a bright spot: ever-rising home values kept the economy humming, as owners drew down on their equity to buy consumer goods and pack their children off to college. 
 Lawrence B. Lindsay, Mr. Bush's first chief economics adviser, said there was little impetus to raise alarms about the proliferation of easy credit that was helping Mr. Bush meet housing goals. 
 ''No one wanted to stop that bubble,'' Mr. Lindsay said. ''It would have conflicted with the president's own policies.''
 Today, millions of Americans are facing foreclosure, homeownership rates are virtually no higher than when Mr. Bush took office, Fannie and Freddie are in a government conservatorship, and the bailout cost to taxpayers could run in the trillions. 
 As the economy has shed jobs -- 533,000 last month alone -- and his party has been punished by irate voters, the weakened president has granted his Treasury secretary extraordinary leeway in managing the crisis.
 Never once, Mr. Paulson said in a recent interview, has Mr. Bush overruled him. ''I've got a boss,'' he explained, who ''understands that when you're dealing with something as unprecedented and fast-moving as this we need to have a different operating style.''
 Mr. Paulson and other senior advisers to Mr. Bush say the administration has responded well to the turmoil, demonstrating flexibility under difficult circumstances. ''There is not any playbook,'' Mr. Paulson said.
 The president declined to be interviewed for this article. But in recent weeks Mr. Bush has shared his views of how the nation came to the brink of economic disaster. He cites corporate greed and market excesses fueled by a flood of foreign cash -- ''Wall Street got drunk,'' he has said -- and the policies of past administrations. He blames Congress for failing to reform Fannie and Freddie. Last week, Fox News asked Mr. Bush if he was worried about being the Herbert Hoover of the 21st century.
 ''No,'' Mr. Bush replied. ''I will be known as somebody who saw a problem and put the chips on the table to prevent the economy from collapsing.''
 But in private moments, aides say, the president is looking inward. During a recent ride aboard Marine One, the presidential helicopter, Mr. Bush sounded a reflective note. 
 ''We absolutely wanted to increase homeownership,'' Tony Fratto, his deputy press secretary, recalled him saying. ''But we never wanted lenders to make bad decisions.''
 A Policy Gone Awry 
 Darrin West could not believe it. The president of the United States was standing in his living room.
 It was June 17, 2002, a day Mr. West recalls as ''the highlight of my life.'' Mr. Bush, in Atlanta to unveil a plan to increase the number of minority homeowners by 5.5 million, was touring Park Place South, a development of starter homes in a neighborhood once marked by blight and crime. 
 Mr. West had patrolled there as a police officer, and now he was the proud owner of a $130,000 town house, bought with an adjustable-rate mortgage and a $20,000 government loan as his down payment -- just the sort of creative public-private financing Mr. Bush was promoting.
 ''Part of economic security,'' Mr. Bush declared that day, ''is owning your own home.''
 A lot has changed since then. Mr. West, beset by personal problems, left Atlanta. Unable to sell his home for what he owed, he said, he gave it back to the bank last year. Like other communities across America, Park Place South has been hit with a foreclosure crisis affecting at least 10 percent of its 232 homes, according to Masharn Wilson, a developer who led Mr. Bush's tour. 
 ''I just don't think what he envisioned was actually carried out,'' she said. 
 Park Place South is, in microcosm, the story of a well-intentioned policy gone awry. Advocating homeownership is hardly novel; the Clinton administration did it, too. For Mr. Bush, it was part of his vision of an ''ownership society,'' in which Americans would rely less on the government for health care, retirement and shelter. It was also good politics, a way to court black and Hispanic voters. 
 But for much of Mr. Bush's tenure, government statistics show, incomes for most families remained relatively stagnant while housing prices skyrocketed. That put homeownership increasingly out of reach for first-time buyers like Mr. West.
 So Mr. Bush had to, in his words, ''use the mighty muscle of the federal government'' to meet his goal. He proposed affordable housing tax incentives. He insisted that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac meet ambitious new goals for low-income lending. 
 Concerned that down payments were a barrier, Mr. Bush persuaded Congress to spend up to $200 million a year to help first-time buyers with down payments and closing costs. 
 And he pushed to allow first-time buyers to qualify for federally insured mortgages with no money down. Republican Congressional leaders and some housing advocates balked, arguing that homeowners with no stake in their investments would be more prone to walk away, as Mr. West did. Many economic experts, including some in the White House, now share that view. 
 The president also leaned on mortgage brokers and lenders to devise their own innovations. ''Corporate America,'' he said, ''has a responsibility to work to make America a compassionate place.''
 And corporate America, eyeing a lucrative market, delivered in ways Mr. Bush might not have expected, with a proliferation of too-good-to-be-true teaser rates and interest-only loans that were sold to investors in a loosely regulated environment. 
 ''This administration made decisions that allowed the free market to operate as a barroom brawl instead of a prize fight,'' said L. William Seidman, who advised Republican presidents and led the savings and loan bailout in the 1990s. ''To make the market work well, you have to have a lot of rules.''
 But Mr. Bush populated the financial system's alphabet soup of oversight agencies with people who, like him, wanted fewer rules, not more.
 Like Minds on Laissez-Faire
 The president's first chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission promised a ''kinder, gentler'' agency. The second was pushed out amid industry complaints that he was too aggressive. Under its current leader, the agency failed to police the catastrophic decisions that toppled the investment bank Bear Stearns and contributed to the current crisis, according to a recent inspector general's report. 
 As for Mr. Bush's banking regulators, they once brandished a chain saw over a 9,000-page pile of regulations as they promised to ease burdens on the industry. When states tried to use consumer protection laws to crack down on predatory lending, the comptroller of the currency blocked the effort, asserting that states had no authority over national banks. 
 The administration won that fight at the Supreme Court. But Roy Cooper, North Carolina's attorney general, said, ''They took 50 sheriffs off the beat at a time when lending was becoming the Wild West.''
 The president did push rules aimed at forcing lenders to more clearly explain loan terms. But the White House shelved them in 2004, after industry-friendly members of Congress threatened to block confirmation of his new housing secretary. 
 In the 2004 election cycle, mortgage bankers and brokers poured nearly $847,000 into Mr. Bush's re-election campaign, more than triple their contributions in 2000, according to the nonpartisan Center for Responsive Politics. The administration did not finalize the new rules until last month.
 Among the Republican Party's top 10 donors in 2004 was Roland Arnall. He founded Ameriquest, then the nation's largest lender in the subprime market, which focuses on less creditworthy borrowers. In July 2005, the company agreed to set aside $325 million to settle allegations in 30 states that it had preyed on borrowers with hidden fees and ballooning payments. It was an early signal that deceptive lending practices, which would later set off a wave of foreclosures, were widespread.
 Andrew H. Card Jr., Mr. Bush's former chief of staff, said White House aides discussed Ameriquest's troubles, though not what they might portend for the economy. Mr. Bush had just nominated Mr. Arnall as his ambassador to the Netherlands, and the White House was primarily concerned with making sure he would be confirmed.
 ''Maybe I was asleep at the switch,'' Mr. Card said in an interview.
 Brian Montgomery, the Federal Housing Administration commissioner, understood the significance. His agency insures home loans, traditionally for the same low-income minority borrowers Mr. Bush wanted to help. When he arrived in June 2005, he was shocked to find those customers had been lured away by the ''fool's gold'' of subprime loans. The Ameriquest settlement, he said, reinforced his concern that the industry was exploiting borrowers.
 In December 2005, Mr. Montgomery drafted a memo and brought it to the White House. ''I don't think this is what the president had in mind here,'' he recalled telling Ryan Streeter, then the president's chief housing policy analyst.
 It was an opportunity to address the risky subprime lending practices head on. But that was never seriously discussed. More senior aides, like Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's chief political strategist, were wary of overly regulating an industry that, Mr. Rove said in an interview, provided ''a valuable service to people who could not otherwise get credit.'' While he had some concerns about the industry's practices, he said, ''it did provide an opportunity for people, a lot of whom are still in their houses today.''
 The White House pursued a narrower plan offered by Mr. Montgomery that would have allowed the F.H.A. to loosen standards so it could lure back subprime borrowers by insuring similar, but safer, loans. It passed the House but died in the Senate, where Republican senators feared that the agency would merely be mimicking the private sector's risky practices -- a view Mr. Rove said he shared.
 Looking back at the episode, Mr. Montgomery broke down in tears. While he acknowledged that the bill did not get to the root of the problem, he said he would ''go to my grave believing'' that at least some homeowners might have been spared foreclosure. 
 Today, administration officials say it is fair to ask whether Mr. Bush's ownership push backfired. Mr. Paulson said the administration, like others before it, ''over-incented housing.'' Mr. Hennessey put it this way: ''I would not say too much emphasis on expanding homeownership. I would say not enough early focus on easy lending practices.'' 
 'We Told You So'
 Armando Falcon Jr. was preparing to take on a couple of giants.
 A soft-spoken Texan, Mr. Falcon ran the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, a tiny government agency that oversaw Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, two pillars of the American housing industry. In February 2003, he was finishing a blockbuster report that warned the pillars could crumble.
 Created by Congress, Fannie and Freddie -- called G.S.E.'s, for government-sponsored entities -- bought trillions of dollars' worth of mortgages to hold or sell to investors as guaranteed securities. The companies were also Washington powerhouses, stuffing lawmakers' campaign coffers and hiring bare-knuckled lobbyists.
 Mr. Falcon's report outlined a worst-case situation in which Fannie and Freddie could default on debt, setting off ''contagious illiquidity in the market'' -- in other words, a financial meltdown. He also raised red flags about the companies' soaring use of derivatives, the complex financial instruments that economic experts now blame for spreading the housing collapse.
 Today, the White House cites that report -- and its subsequent effort to better regulate Fannie and Freddie -- as evidence that it foresaw the crisis and tried to avert it. Bush officials recently wrote up a talking points memo headlined ''G.S.E.'s -- We Told You So.''
 But the back story is more complicated. To begin with, on the day Mr. Falcon issued his report, the White House tried to fire him.
 At the time, Fannie and Freddie were allies in the president's quest to drive up homeownership rates; Franklin D. Raines, then Fannie's chief executive, has fond memories of visiting Mr. Bush in the Oval Office and flying aboard Air Force One to a housing event. ''They loved us,'' he said.
 So when Mr. Falcon refused to deep-six his report, Mr. Raines took his complaints to top Treasury officials and the White House. ''I'm going to do what I need to do to defend my company and my position,'' Mr. Raines told Mr. Falcon.
 Days later, as Mr. Falcon was in New York preparing to deliver a speech about his findings, his cellphone rang. It was the White House personnel office, he said, telling him he was about to be unemployed.
 His warnings were buried in the next day's news coverage, trumped by the White House announcement that Mr. Bush would replace Mr. Falcon, a Democrat appointed by Bill Clinton, with Mark C. Brickell, a leader in the derivatives industry that Mr. Falcon's report had flagged. 
 It was not until 2003, when Freddie became embroiled in an accounting scandal, that the White House took on the companies in earnest. Mr. Bush decided to quit the long-standing practice of rewarding supporters with high-paying appointments to the companies' boards -- ''political plums,'' in Mr. Rove's words. He also withdrew Mr. Brickell's nomination and threw his support behind Mr. Falcon, beginning an intense effort to give his little regulatory agency more power. 
 Mr. Falcon lacked explicit authority to limit the size of the companies' mammoth investment portfolios, or tell them how much capital they needed to guard against losses. White House officials wanted that to change. They also wanted the power to put the companies into receivership, hoping that would end what Mr. Card, the former chief of staff, called ''the myth of government backing,'' which gave the companies a competitive edge because investors assumed the government would not let them fail.
 By the spring of 2005 a deal with Congress seemed within reach, Mr. Snow, the former Treasury secretary, said in an interview.
 Michael G. Oxley, an Ohio Republican and then-chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, had produced what Mr. Snow viewed as ''a pretty darned good bill,'' a watered-down version of what the president sought. But at the urging of Mr. Card and the White House economics team, the president decided to hold out for a tougher bill in the Senate.
 Mr. Card said he feared that Mr. Snow was ''more interested in the deal than the result.'' When the bill passed the House, the president issued a statement opposing it, effectively killing any chance of compromise. Mr. Oxley was furious.
 ''The problem with those guys at the White House, they had all the answers and they didn't think they had to listen to anyone, including the Treasury secretary,'' Mr. Oxley said in a recent interview. ''They were driving the ideological train. He was in the caboose, and they were in the engine room.''
 Mr. Card and Mr. Hennessey said they had no regrets. They are convinced, Mr. Hennessey said, that the Oxley bill would have produced ''the worst of all possible outcomes,'' the illusion of reform without the substance.
 Still, some former White House and Treasury officials continue to debate whether Mr. Bush's all-or-nothing approach scuttled a measure that, while imperfect, might have given an aggressive regulator enough power to keep the companies from failing.
 Mr. Snow, for one, calls Mr. Oxley ''a hero,'' adding, ''He saw the need to move. It didn't get done. And it's too bad, because I think if it had, I think we could well have avoided a big contributor to the current crisis.''
 Unheeded Warnings
 Jason Thomas had a nagging feeling.
 The New Century Financial Corporation, a huge subprime lender whose mortgages were bundled into securities sold around the world, was headed for bankruptcy in March 2007. Mr. Thomas, an economic analyst for President Bush, was responsible for determining whether it was a hint of things to come.
 At 29, Mr. Thomas had followed a fast-track career path that took him from a Buffalo meatpacking plant, where he worked as a statistician, to the White House. He was seen as a whiz kid, ''a brilliant guy,'' his former boss, Mr. Hubbard, says. 
 As Mr. Thomas began digging into New Century's failure that spring, he became fixated on a particular statistic, the rent-to-own ratio. 
 Typically, as home prices increase, rental costs rise proportionally. But Mr. Thomas sent charts to top White House and Treasury officials showing that the monthly cost of owning far outpaced the cost to rent. To Mr. Thomas, it was a sign that housing prices were wildly inflated and bound to plunge, a condition that could set off a foreclosure crisis as conventional and subprime borrowers with little equity found they owed more than their houses were worth. 
 It was not the Bush team's first warning. The previous year, Mr. Lindsay, the former chief economics adviser, returned to the White House to tell his old colleagues that housing prices were headed for a crash. But housing values are hard to evaluate, and Mr. Lindsay had a reputation as a market pessimist, said Mr. Hubbard, adding, ''I thought, 'He's always a bear.' '' 
 In retrospect, Mr. Hubbard said, Mr. Lindsay was ''absolutely right,'' and Mr. Thomas's charts ''should have been a signal.'' 
 Instead, the prevailing view at the White House was that the problems in the housing market were limited to subprime borrowers unable to make their payments as their adjustable mortgages reset to higher rates. That belief was shared by Mr. Bush's new Treasury secretary, Mr. Paulson. 
 Mr. Paulson, a former chairman of the Wall Street firm Goldman Sachs, had been given unusual power; he had accepted the job only after the president guaranteed him that Treasury, not the White House, would have the dominant role in shaping economic policy. That shift merely continued an imbalance of power that stifled robust policy debate, several former Bush aides say.
 Throughout the spring of 2007, Mr. Paulson declared that ''the housing market is at or near the bottom,'' with the problem ''largely contained.'' That position underscored nearly every action the Bush administration took in the ensuing months as it offered one limited response after another. 
 By that August, the problems had spread beyond New Century. Credit was tightening, amid questions about how heavily banks were invested in securities linked to mortgages. Still, Mr. Bush predicted that the turmoil would resolve itself with a ''soft landing.''
 The plan Mr. Bush announced on Aug. 31 reflected that belief. Called ''F.H.A. Secure,'' it aimed to help about 80,000 homeowners refinance their loans. Mr. Montgomery, the housing commissioner, said that he knew the modest program was not enough -- the White House later expanded the agency's rescue role -- and that he would be ''flying the plane and fixing it at the same time.'' 
 That fall, Representative Rahm Emanuel, a leading Democrat, former investment banker and now the incoming chief of staff to President-elect Barack Obama, warned the White House it was not doing enough. He said he told Joshua B. Bolten, Mr. Bush's chief of staff, and Mr. Paulson in a series of phone calls that the credit crisis would get ''deep and serious'' and that the only answer was big, internationally coordinated government intervention.
 ''You got to strangle this thing and suffocate it,'' he recalled saying. 
 Instead, Mr. Bush developed Hope Now, a voluntary public-private partnership to help struggling homeowners refinance loans. And he worked with Congress to pass a stimulus package that sent taxpayers $150 billion in tax rebates. 
 In a speech to the Economic Club of New York in March 2008, he cautioned against Washington's temptation ''to say that anything short of a massive government intervention in the housing market amounts to inaction,'' adding that government action could make it harder for the markets to recover. 
 Dominoes Start to Fall
 Within days, Bear Sterns collapsed, prompting the Federal Reserve to engineer a hasty sale. Some economic experts, including Timothy F. Geithner, the president of the New York Federal Reserve Bank (and Mr. Obama's choice for Treasury secretary) feared that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be the next to fall. 
 Mr. Bush was still leaning on Congress to revamp the tiny agency that oversaw the two companies, and had acceded to Mr. Paulson's request for the negotiating room that he had denied Mr. Snow. Still, there was no deal.
 Over the previous two years, the White House had effectively set the agency adrift. Mr. Falcon left in 2005 and was replaced by a temporary director, who was in turn replaced by James B. Lockhart, a friend of Mr. Bush from their days at Andover, and a former deputy commissioner of the Social Security Administration who had once run a software company. 
 On Mr. Lockhart's watch, both Freddie and Fannie had plunged into the riskiest part of the market, gobbling up more than $400 billion in subprime and other alternative mortgages. With the companies on precarious footing, Mr. Geithner had been advocating that the administration seize them or take other steps to reassure the market that the government would back their debt, according to two people with direct knowledge of his views.
 In an Oval Office meeting on March 17, however, Mr. Paulson barely mentioned the idea, according to several people present. He wanted to use the troubled companies to unlock the frozen credit market by allowing Fannie and Freddie to buy more mortgage-backed securities from overburdened banks. To that end, Mr. Lockhart's office planned to lift restraints on the companies' huge portfolios -- a decision derided by former White House and Treasury officials who had worked so hard to limit them. 
 But Mr. Paulson told Mr. Bush the companies would shore themselves up later by raising more capital.
 ''Can they?'' Mr. Bush asked.
 ''We're hoping so,'' the Treasury secretary replied.
 That turned out to be incorrect, and did not surprise Mr. Thomas, the Bush economic adviser. Throughout that spring and summer, he warned the White House and Treasury that, in the stark words of one e-mail message, ''Freddie Mac is in trouble.'' And Mr. Lockhart, he charged, was allowing the company to cover up its insolvency with dubious accounting maneuvers.
 But Mr. Lockhart continued to offer reassurances. In a July appearance on CNBC, he declared that the companies were well managed and ''worsts were not coming to worst.'' An infuriated Mr. Thomas sent a fresh round of e-mail messages accusing Mr. Lockhart of ''pimping for the stock prices of the undercapitalized firms he regulates.'' 
 Mr. Lockhart defended himself, insisting in an interview that he was aware of the companies' vulnerabilities, but did not want to rattle markets. 
 ''A regulator,'' he said, ''does not air dirty laundry in public.''
 Soon afterward, the companies' stocks lost half their value in a single day, prompting Congress to quickly give Mr. Paulson the power to spend $200 billion to prop them up and to finally pass Mr. Bush's long-sought reform bill, but it was too late. In September, the government seized control of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae.
 In an interview, Mr. Paulson said the administration had no justification to take over the companies any sooner. But Mr. Falcon disagreed: ''They absolutely could have if they had thought there was a real danger.''
 By Sept. 18, when Mr. Bush and his team had their fateful meeting in the Roosevelt Room after the failure of Lehman Brothers and the emergency rescue of A.I.G., Mr. Paulson was warning of an economic calamity greater than the Great Depression. Suddenly, historic government intervention seemed the only option. When Mr. Paulson spelled out what would become a $700 billion plan to rescue the nation's banking system, the president did not hesitate. 
 ''Is that enough?'' Mr. Bush asked.
 ''It's a lot,'' the Treasury secretary recalled replying. ''It will make a difference.'' And in any event, he told Mr. Bush, ''I don't think we can get more.''
 As the meeting wrapped up, a handful of aides retreated to the White House Situation Room to call Vice President Dick Cheney in Florida, where he was attending a fund-raiser. Mr. Cheney had long played a leading role in economic policy, though housing was not a primary interest, and like Mr. Bush he had a deep aversion to government intervention in the market. Nonetheless, he backed the bailout, convinced that too many Americans would suffer if Washington did nothing.
 Mr. Bush typically darts out of such meetings quickly. But this time, he lingered, patting people on the back and trying to soothe his downcast staff. ''During times of adversity, he bucks everybody up,'' Mr. Paulson said.
 It was not the end of the failures or government interventions; the administration has since stepped in to rescue Citigroup and, just last week, the Detroit automakers. With 31 days left in office, Mr. Bush says he will leave it to historians to analyze ''what went right and what went wrong,'' as he put it in a speech last week to the American Enterprise Institute.
 Mr. Bush said he was too focused on the present to do much looking back.
 ''It turns out,'' he said, ''this isn't one of the presidencies where you ride off into the sunset, you know, kind of waving goodbye.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE BLUEPRINTS In June 2002, President Bush spoke in Atlanta to unveil a plan to increase minority homeownership. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH ADDICKS/ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION) (pg.A1)
HANDS-OFF REGULATORS: President Bush and his economic team, Ben S. Bernanke, left, Henry M. Paulson Jr. and Christopher Cox, right, in September. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY DOWNING/REUTERS)
VISION GONE AWRY: In 2002, Masharn Wilson led Mr. Bush through Park Place South in Atlanta, where 10 percent of homes are now in foreclosure. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK BOWMER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A36) CHARTS: Homeownership rates hit historic highs during George W. Bush's tenure but have since dropped to about where they were when he took office. (Source: U.S. Census Bureau) (Source: U.S. Census Bureau) (pg.A1)
BUSH ON THE ECONOMY: As the financial crisis has unfolded, the president's views of the nation's financial health evolved, as did the remedies. (pg.A36 and 37)
 President Bush came into office promising to increase homeownership and decrease government regulation of business, a combination that contributed to the current economic turmoil. Looking back, current and former aides point to unheeded warnings and missed opportunities to ameliorate the crisis. (pg.A37) (CHART BY GUILBERT GATES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TOXIC ASSETS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (74%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); BAILOUTS (71%); INSURANCE (68%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (93%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); HENRY PAULSON (72%); BEN BERNANKE (72%); CHRISTOPHER COX (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%) GEORGIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2008



808 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1920 words

HEADLINE: Choice Syllables for 2008, You Betcha

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 POLITICS without buzzwords is like sports without cliches, math without numbers or Blago without bleeps. Tough to imagine, in other words, especially in such a game-changer of a campaign year in which buzzwords were flying like shoes. 
 Buzzwords are what political wiseguys use to sound all important and knowing in a profession whose prime currency is the illusion of being both. They are like secret passwords for the chattering class, the verbal equivalent of a terrorist fist jab.
 Picking out political buzzwords from 2008 is like shooting moose in a pigpen. The fundamentals were so dizzyingly strong, it could be tough to keep them all straight. Before you knew it ''The One'' had become ''That One'' and the ''team of mavericks'' were going rogue on each other. You mixed up Client 9 and Candidate 5 at the holiday party and tried to change the subject. 
 The lifespan of Hillary Clinton's campaign ''meta-narrative'' could be charted entirely in buzzwords and catch-phrases -- ''inevitability'' to ''Clinton fatigue'' to ''Obamamania'' to ''he can't win'' to ''team of rivals.'' 
 Same with Sarah Palin -- the ''hockey mom'' who ''Geritoled'' (or Viagra'd) John McCain's campaign back to life and threatened to supplant Mrs. Clinton as the new face of American ''femocracy.'' That is, until she started palling around with Katie Couric and her Joe Six-Pack bona fides got lost in the aisles of Nordstrom and a string of off-message headlines. Ms. Palin was ultimately dubbed a ''whack job'' by a (rogue) McCainiac, and many have dismissed her efforts at image rehab as akin to putting lipstick on something or other, we forgot.
 If political buzzwords in 2008 had a temperament, they would be erratic. 
 But enough already. We're suspending this story to return to Washington immediately. We're appointing ourselves ''buzzword czars,'' bent on putting ''strict limits'' on their use and proliferation. Politicians discussing the economic crisis will be forbidden from deploying that horribly overbaked ''Wall Street vs. Main Street'' construction. No more transparency or openness or straight talk or TARP money or kitchen sinks or post-racial or post-partisan nonsense will be ''driving the conversation'' in our ''post-buzzword'' America, either. 
 We're ''fired up and ready to go,'' but consider this a linguistic 3 a.m. wake-up call. If Obama can quit smoking, we can quit buzzwords for at least a day. 
 Or a paragraph. (Cue video of cold sweat gushing down forehead.) Game on. No buzzwords, no buzzwords, no buzzwords. Can we really keep this up for a whole paragraph? Yes we can!
 Oops, guess not.
 And can we get through an entire story about political buzzwords in 2008 without mentioning the single most pervasive concept, placard message and rally cry of all? Can we go without mentioning that certain verb/noun that begins with ''c'' and ends with ''e'' and was demanded wherever Obamamania raged and T-shirts were sold? Can we do it? Yes we did.
 A closing argument, my friends: This ''change election'' (oops, no we can't) was in fact a great election -- great for ratings and great for drama, even if the No Drama candidate ultimately prevailed (then hired ''Drama Manuel'' to be his chief of staff). 
 Elections have consequences. And lots of buzzwords. 
 Grant Barrett is a lexicographer specializing in slang and new words. He is a co-host of the public radio program ''A Way With Words'' and head of the New Words Committee of the American Dialect Society. Here are some of the words he tracked this year. Readers can ask him about them and suggest their own words at:
 nytimes.com/weekinreview
 AGE-DOPING
 The falsification of records to show that an athlete meets participation requirements for a sporting event. This issue arose with Chinese gymnasts in the Summer Olympics in Beijing.
 BURROWING
 When political appointees find their party out of power, they often seek to stay on the government payroll by taking a different but similar job as a civil servant, burrowing in like a hibernating animal until their party should take up the reins again.
 CARIBOU BARBIE
 A nickname for the former vice-presidential candidate Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska.
 CHANGE
 Not so much a buzzword as political wallpaper, background noise and ambient energy rolled into one. The idea of discarding old ideas and methods seemed to underlie everything said by national political candidates.
 DIGITAL CLIFF
 The sharp degradation of a digital broadcast signal beyond a certain distance. This cliff could be encountered when analog signals cease broadcasting on Feb. 18, 2009. Households that received analog signals just fine may find that the digital signal doesn't work.
 D.W.T., OR DRIVING WHILE TEXTING
 The distracting practice of sending text messages while operating an automobile. 
 EDUPUNK
 A style of hands-on self-education that benefits the student without concern for curriculums or the interests of schools, corporations or governments. In other words, an autodidactic approach that spurns commercialism, mass-market approaches and top-down goal-setting. Coined by Jim Groom, an ''instructional technologist'' at the University of Mary Washington in Fredericksburg, Va.
 FAIL
 Largely used online, this is a verb turned into a mass noun, as in ''A bucket of fail.'' Common forms include epic fail, meaning a huge overall tendency toward failure or a great example of failure, and FAIL! as an interjection or derogation. Often an antonym of win, seen online in forms like ''Full of win!'' which means, ''It's good!'' 
 FISH PEDICURE
 A cosmetic procedure in which fish eat the dead skin off the feet.
 FRUGALISTA
 A person who is frugal but fashionable.
 FUTARCHY
 Pronounced FEW-tark-ee. A theoretical government controlled in part by speculative markets. Coined by Robin D. Hanson of George Mason University.
 GAS-SIPPER
 The opposite of gas-guzzler. Though more than 30 years old, the term took on new significance as gasoline prices rose to record highs.
 GREYJING
 A nickname for Beijing, whose skies are some of the most polluted in the world.
 HOCKEY MOM
 A mother who spends a great deal of time and money aggressively abetting her children's interest in the sport of hockey. Sarah Palin described herself as one. Borrowed later as a marketing term akin to soccer mom to mean a middle-class suburban mother from states where hockey is a common pastime.
 JOE
 An everyman. Seen in this election inAmtrak Joe, Joe the Plumber, Joe the Biden and Joe Six-Pack, among others.
 LIPSTICK ON A PIG
 An adornment of something that can't be made pretty. When Barack Obama said, ''You can put lipstick on a pig, but it's still a pig,'' many people assumed he meant Sarah Palin, who has said that the only difference between a hockey mom and a pit bull is lipstick.
 LONG PHOTO
 A video of 90 seconds or less. Used by the photo-sharing Web site Flickr, which began permitting videos this year.
 MALUS
 A penalty or salary cut suffered by a business executive whose company suffers market setbacks or failures. The opposite of a bonus. Actuaries used the term as early as the 1960s.
 MAVERICK
 A person who is beholden to no one. Widely used by the Republican presidential and vice-presidential candidates, John McCain and Sarah Palin. Also in the adjectival form mavericky, used by Tina Fey portraying Governor Palin on ''Saturday Night Live.''
 NAKED SHORT SELLING
 The risky practice of shorting stock that someone else owns without getting the right to sell it first.
 NUKE THE FRIDGE
 To ruin a movie franchise; usually attributed to the arrogance of a successful producer or director. The term was coined based on a scene in the latest Indiana Jones movie, in which the hero survives a nuclear blast by hiding in a refrigerator. The term is patterned after jump the shark, coined a few years ago to refer to anything that had peaked in popularity or quality and was now on a downward slide toward ridiculousness and irrelevancy.
 OBAMANATION
 President-elect Barack Obama's name continues to provoke an avalanche of one-offs and nonce terms, some of dubious utility and few of great lifespan. Variations on ''Obamination'' and ''Obamanation'' are common, with the first term largely being used in a negative sense and the second in a positive one. More were catalogued by the online magazine Slate, which created an application for Facebook and published a book of the terms called ''Obamamania! The English Language, Barackafied.'' A sample of other forms include Bamelot, Baraccoli, Baracked, Barackintosh, Baracklamation, Barackstar, Barackupied, Barackwurst, Nobama, Obamacam, Obamacize, Obamafy, Obamalicious, Obamalujah, Obamamatopoeia, Obamamentum, Obamanos, Obamaphoria, Obamarama, Obamascope, Obamatopia, Obamatose, Obamazon.
 PHELPSIAN
 Excellent in the fashion of the swimmer Michael Phelps, who won eight medals and set seven world records at the 2008 Summer Olympics.
 PHOTOBOMBING
 Intentionally inserting oneself as an unwelcome subject in the background of someone else's photograph.
 PLUTOID
 A new term designated by the International Astronomical Union to refer to Pluto and space objects like it, which are something less than planets.
 PREGOREXIA
 Obsession with staying thin by a pregnant woman.
 QUAKE LAKE
 A new lake formed by May's major earthquake in China.
 RECESSIONISTA
 Originally, someone who favored a recession as ultimately good for the economy. Now, a person who stays fashionable during an economic downturn without spending a lot of money. 
 SISTER WIFE
 A woman who shares a husband with another woman. Used by members of the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints in Texas and other polygamous groups.
 SKADOOSH
 A term coined by Jack Black for the movie ''Kung Fu Panda'' and popularized by the movie's promoters. It appears during a crucial scene in the movie and accompanies a gesture.
 STAG-DEFLATION
 A growing economy in which prices fall.
 STAYCATION
 A vacation from work or school that does not involve traveling.
 TANK, IN THE
 To say that someone is in the tank for someone else is to suggest that support comes as a result of backroom deals or political logrolling. 
 T.B.T.F.
 An initialism for ''too big to fail,'' used to describe very large financial institutions that many believe should be protected from financial collapse.
 TERRORIST FIST JAB
 A knuckle-to-knuckle fist bump, or ''dap,'' traditionally performed between two black people as a sign of friendship, celebration or agreement. It was called the ''terrorist fist jab'' by the newscaster E. D. Hill, formerly of Fox News. The name was taken up by opponents of Barack Obama, who is prone to do the bump with members of his family. He and his wife, Michelle, were featured making the gesture in a cartoon on the cover of The New Yorker in July. The expression is now used ironically across the political spectrum.
 THROWIE
 A sticky or magnetic battery-powered LED used in bunches as a form of graffiti.
 TW-, TWEET-, TWITT-
 Combining forms all inspired by Twitter, what might be called a free nano-blogging service. It helps small groups share what they're thinking or doing in just 140 characters per message, or tweet, as such a message is called. The service has generated new words and related Web sites. Tweet-up, for example, is either a meeting of people organized through Twitter, or the Web site that helps bring about the meetings. 
 TWI-HARD
 A fan of Stephenie Meyer's ''Twilight'' book series about vampires. Rhymes with ''die-hard.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JESSICA HISCHE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICS (90%); LINGUISTICS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); DISMISSALS (67%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (64%); SMOKING CESSATION (60%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); SARAH PALIN (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); KATIE COURIC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2008



809 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; HARTFORD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Vent Against Lieberman

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE STUART

DATELINE: Hartford 

 BODY:
 CONNECTICUT Democrats have said they felt angry and betrayed by Senator Joseph I. Lieberman's support of John McCain, the Republican senator who ran for president, but they struggled on Wednesday to find an appropriate way to express their dissatisfaction. 
 ''We have to stand for something,'' said Audrey Blondin of Litchfield, a member of the Democratic State Central Committee who drafted a resolution admonishing the senator. 
 Mr. Lieberman, who ran as Al Gore's running mate in 2000, lost the Democratic Senate primary in 2006 and ran for re-election as an independent. But he continued to register as a Democrat and Democrats in the Senate have been able to count on him to vote mostly with them. When he publicly criticized Senator Barack Obama in his support of Mr. McCain, however, Connecticut Democrats said he had gone too far.
 ''Really the language is not as important as the message, and the fact that this party got together and we stood up and said something,'' Mrs. Blondin told the standing-room-only crowd at the committee's monthly meeting. 
 ''We need to have closure on this,'' Mrs. Blondin concluded before the room erupted in applause.
 The meeting, which was followed by the committee's holiday gathering, turned into a session for local Democrats to vent about how upset they were with Mr. Lieberman, once one of their own.
 But after more than an hour of debate, closure didn't come in the way of a resolution. A censure and the idea of asking Mr. Lieberman to leave the party had already been taken off the table by Mrs. Blondin, who said she had checked with local committees around the state. 
 In the end, a majority of the state committee members asked Nancy DiNardo, the chairwoman of the group, to send a strongly worded letter to Connecticut's junior senator expressing the committee's dissatisfaction and displeasure with his actions. 
 ''Do not take this as me letting Joe Lieberman off the hook,'' Ms. DiNardo said, after asking those gathered to let her send the letter. 
 ''I stand before you today feeling angry and betrayed,'' Ms. DiNardo said. ''As all of you know, in 2006 Senator Joseph Lieberman said he wanted to help elect a Democratic president in 2008.'' 
 After the committee's decision to send the letter, Mr. Lieberman's communications director, Marshall Wittmann, sent out a statement saying, ''Senator Lieberman is entirely focused on the future and working with our new president and his Congressional colleagues to revive the economy, reform health care and keep our country secure.''
 The statement did not directly address the committee's action. But last month, during his first Connecticut appearance since campaigning for Mr. McCain, Mr. Lieberman answered some questions about a possible action by Connecticut Democrats to admonish him. 
 ''That's up to them, the members of the Democratic State Central Committee,'' he told reporters. ''They have a right to do whatever they want to do.''
 On Wednesday night, some Democrats said they thought Mr. Lieberman owed them an apology. Brian Anderson, a labor leader from Willimantic, said Mr. Lieberman promised to be a ''true-blue Democrat,'' if he was re-elected in 2006. ''I agree we need to move forward, but there needs to be an apology.'' 
 Edward Anderson, a Democratic activist from New Haven, criticized the committee's decision not to do more than send a letter.
 ''These guys are terrified to take a vote,'' he said. They should have told Mr. Lieberman, he said, ''don't use the D; you can't use the D anymore.''
 But others said that it would be difficult to take stronger action at the state level against Mr. Lieberman since his Senate colleagues allowed him to retain his chairmanship of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, while removing him from the Environment and Public Works Committee. They also delivered a mild rebuke. 
 ''The president-elect and Congress thought he should stay in the caucus and retain his position,'' said Gerald Weiner of Woodbridge. ''We should support our elected officials, not carve out unnecessary actions.'' 
 Larry Pleasant of Bloomfield said, ''He really doesn't owe us the world.'' 
 Peter Thor of Norwalk said: ''It's not about Joe Lieberman. It's about us and what's important to us. 
 ''This is an expression of what we stand for,'' he said. 
 Martha Carlson of Guilford said Mr. Lieberman has already paid a steep price for his support of Mr. McCain. ''No one should walk away from here tonight and think Joe Lieberman went unpunished,'' she said. ''He's a man without a state. No one in Connecticut who is a Democrat really wants to talk to him.'' 
 ''He rode the wrong horse and the meeting with the senators was not friendly,'' she said, referring to the Senate decision on Mr. Lieberman.
 ''His poll numbers show how dissatisfied Connecticut folks are with him,'' Ms. Carlson said, referring to a Quinnipiac University poll released this week showing his approval rating at an all-time low of 38 percent. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A STAND Democratic State Central Committee members who agreed to send a letter to Senator Joseph I. Lieberman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE RUHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%)

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); AL GORE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2008



810 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Scandals to Warm To

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
I miss the sex.
 The nation is engrossed in an orgy of scandal, a 24-hour cable news burlesque of greed, graft, cronyism and corruption, with appointed villains so lurid and over-the-top they could be characters in ''Bleak House.'' (Even their names, Madoff and Blagojevich, have a Dickensian ring, like Skimpole or Pardiggle.) 
 The most salacious news stories pivot on money, not mistresses, prostitutes or toe taps in an airport men's room. It's the 10th anniversary of Monicagate and the impeachment of President Clinton, and even the Fox News Channel cannot summon the energy to dwell on Linda Tripp or the semen-stained dress. (At the moment, muckrakers are studying Clinton donors, not doxies.) 
 The recession has many victims, but one of the least heralded is the collapse of the juicy sex scandal. It seems like ages since anyone cared about John Edwards's extramarital folderol. Madonna's divorce settlement is a footnote. Eliot Spitzer is so pre-Fannie Mae. 
 In normal times, sex and celebrity misconduct are the go-to distraction, NC-17 alternatives to grim news developments and natural disasters. Economists have many ways of defining an economic slump, including rising unemployment, falling growth rates and a seesawing stock market. But perhaps the clearest indicator is the scandal factor: when greed trumps lust, and fraud is more fascinating than infidelity, it's safe to say that the recession has arrived. 
 Credit is frozen, the stock market looks perilously close to flatlining, and neither politicians nor economists can begin to predict the short- or long-term consequences of $700 billion government bailouts and a national debt topping $10 trillion. The root causes -- an impenetrable tangle of derivative securities, heedless lending and binge corporate buyouts -- are too vast and uncharted to examine for long. The solutions are insoluble. 
 It's easier, and oddly enough, more reassuring, to focus on familiar, old-fashioned swindles and bribes. However grotesque and outsize, Ponzi schemes and Chicago machine shakedowns are comfort scandals -- they are suitably horrifying, but not so alien and unprecedented that ordinary taxpayers are afraid to even take a peek. And those lurid misdeeds have all but shoved Internet porn rings, starlet sex tapes and Hollywood breakups off the screen. 
 Put it this way: on ''Dateline'' on NBC, Chris Hansen, the star of the ''To Catch a Predator'' segments, is once again tracking down predators, only this time, Mr. Hansen is not confronting his usual prey -- pedophiles who lure children over the Internet. He is after predatory lenders who enticed gullible homebuyers into taking on mortgages they couldn't afford.
 Bernard L. Madoff and Gov. Rod Blagojevich of Illinois, even before their days in court, are twin symbols of crisis-era thievery and corruption, but they cannot be considered scapegoats. Mostly they serve as sexual surrogates: the shady transactions they're accused of -- stamped with a scarlet letterhead -- titillate the public the way the naughty escapades of Britney Spears and Paris Hilton once did. But there are plenty of other pecuniary trespasses for viewers to leer at, notably a report on MSNBC news on Thursday, based on a gossip item posted on the Web site The Daily Beast, that told of a recent Hermes shopping spree by Kathleen Fuld, the wife of Richard S. Fuld, the disgraced chief executive of the now defunct Lehman Brothers. (The report said her purchases included three $2,225 cashmere throws.)
 The MSNBC story suggested that Mrs. Fuld and her ilk have taken to asking store clerks to place their luxury items in plain, unmarked shopping bags to avoid the sneers of passers-by. And, if true, for good reason: in today's sans-culottes climate, names like Hermes and Prada are so sinful that even news personalities feel compelled to disavow them. After the ''secret shopper'' story was shown, the MSNBC anchor Tamron Hall corrected the reporter's pronunciation of Hermes (''air-mess''), then quickly denied any firsthand knowledge of the shop.
 ''I only learned it on 'Oprah,' '' Ms. Hall said hurriedly. ''That is the store that wouldn't let Oprah Winfrey in, in Paris; that's my sole exposure to Hermes.'' 
 Class resentment is all the rage. Drug abuse and divorce were until recently the usual focus points for gossip about the Kennedys. Now, Caroline Kennedy is under tabloid attack, but the charge is presumption: even on TV, commentators openly scoff at her brief, somewhat stilted tour of upstate New York and complain that she is seeking appointment to public office with a queenly sense of entitlement. (And it's not unfair to note that her request for a Senate seat, on the heels of her crucial endorsement of Barack Obama, carries a whiff of Chicago quid pro quo -- Blagojevichism with better manners.) 
 It won't last forever, of course. Exposes of financial chicanery will lose their novelty, less colorful chiselers will take the stage (or the tumbril), and someday soon enough, sex scandals will be back (ideally, with a Wall Street C.E.O. canoodling with call girls on his soon-to-be repo-ed company jet on his way to an about-to-go-bankrupt luxury resort in St. Barts). 
 At the moment, however, taxpayers are full of wrath at slothful S.E.C. regulators; they envy bosses of bailed-out companies who are taking home bonuses. Ordinary folks are revolted by the gluttony of high-flying A.I.G. executives wining and dining their way through bankruptcy, and offended by prideful car industry executives who take private jets to beg Congress for alms. 
 The seventh deadly sin has fallen by the wayside. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MAN OF THE HOUR: Bernard Madoff is accused of squandering billions in investments. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LANE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT DORFMAN) (pg.WK1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); SCANDALS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); SEX SCANDALS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (87%); PREDATORY LENDING (86%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); BRIBERY (78%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (78%); PORNOGRAPHY (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); IMPEACHMENT (77%); PONZI SCHEMES (77%); POLITICS (75%); MISCONDUCT (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); BAILOUTS (73%); CHILDREN (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (68%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (65%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (55%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (69%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (69%)

PERSON: MADONNA (79%); BILL CLINTON (77%); BERNARD MADOFF (76%); ROD BLAGOJEVICH (56%); ELIOT SPITZER (55%); JOHN EDWARDS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2008



811 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: Downturn Will Test Obama's Vision for an Energy-Efficient Auto Industry

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Jackie Calmes contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama leveled a stern warning at General Motors and Chrysler last week after the federal government promised them billions to help them survive: ''The auto companies must not squander this chance to reform bad management practices.''
 Once he takes office, the bailout will give him a tool to prod the industry to change, but it will also test his resolve as he pushes it in new directions.
 Mr. Obama, after all, has been thinking out loud about the future of the American automobile industry for years, well before his presidential campaign began. He co-sponsored two bills in 2006, during his second year as a United States senator -- one to raise fuel economy standards, and the other to encourage the use of alternative fuels. 
 His writings and speeches on the auto industry suggest a keen interest in finding ways, including new technology, to improve the fuel efficiency of the cars and trucks that Americans drive. 
 But with Detroit in a fragile financial state, it is unclear how many compromises he will have to make in pursuing his agenda for the auto industry, as he juggles other priorities like providing a stimulus program for the broader economy. The United Automobile Workers union, which backed Mr. Obama, will want a say in the changes he envisions for the automakers. 
 And the car companies, which have long lead times to develop products, will need sales of big trucks and sport utility vehicles, which may pick up again as gas prices fall, to bring in much-needed revenue. 
 By all accounts, Mr. Obama's personal interest in the industry stems from his interest in environmental issues, and he has a ready resource about how the industry operates in Martin Nesbitt, a close friend who worked in financial planning at G.M.
 Mr. Obama delivered his clearest prescription to the automobile industry in May 2007, when he appeared at Cobo Convention Center in downtown Detroit before an audience of 2,000 auto industry executives. 
 In a speech to the Economic Club of Detroit, Mr. Obama said the Big Three had done little to lessen the nation's dependence on foreign oil and needed to improve their vehicles' fuel efficiency. 
 ''The auto industry's refusal to act for so long has left it mired in a predicament for which there is no easy way out,'' Mr. Obama said. 
 He added, ''For years, while foreign competitors were investing in more fuel-efficient technology for their vehicles, American automakers were spending their time investing in bigger, faster cars. And whenever an attempt was made to raise our fuel efficiency standards, the auto companies would lobby furiously against it.''
 He suggested initiatives similar to the legislation he had introduced in Congress, and which he emphasized in his campaign. They included a 4 percent annual increase in the Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards, equal to about one mile per gallon a year, and incentives for the companies to develop more fuel-efficient cars. 
 Mr. Obama said he would provide up to $3 billion to Detroit auto companies and their suppliers to retool their factories in order to produce smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles. Still, with gasoline prices falling again, it is unclear whether consumer demand will shift so dramatically to small cars. 
 Congress later included up to $25 billion for the companies for the retooling. General Motors and Chrysler initially tried to tap that money for their depleted cash reserves, before receiving assistance from the Bush administration. 
 Environmentalists say the speech in Detroit was a sign of commitment to prodding the auto companies to build more fuel-efficient vehicles. 
 ''I think he gets it,'' said Daniel Becker, director of the Safe Climate Campaign for the Center for Auto Safety, a Washington consumer advocacy group. ''The speech at Econ Club was a brave one, but a thoughtful one.'' 
 Mr. Obama, who received standing ovations at the beginning and conclusion of his speech, said he wanted to be blunt with the Detroit companies on their home turf. 
 ''I'm making this proposal here today because I don't believe in making proposals in California and giving a different speech in Michigan,'' he said. His goal was ''not to destroy the industry, but to help bring it into the 21st century,'' he said. 
 A year earlier, in his 2006 book, ''The Audacity of Hope,'' Mr. Obama wrote that ''fuel-efficient cars and alternative fuels like E85, a fuel formulated with 85% ethanol, represent the future of the auto industry. It is a future American car companies can attain if we start making some tough choices now.'' 
 He also did not spare the U.A.W. from criticism. 
 ''For years,'' Mr. Obama wrote, ''U.S. automakers and the U.A.W. have resisted higher fuel-efficiency standards because retooling costs money, and Detroit is already struggling under huge retiree health-care costs and stiff competition.'' 
 With Detroit in crisis, there is little room for hesitation after Mr. Obama reaches office. 
 His Treasury Department will have to assess whether the union and the companies have met the requirements of the loans given them by the Bush administration, which legal experts say Mr. Obama could easily amend. 
 But he also has said that he wants to protect American jobs. 
 Soon after President Bush finished announcing the terms of the $17.4 billion in assistance for the auto companies on Friday, the U.A.W. union was calling on Mr. Obama, for whom they rallied support in important Midwestern states, to revise it. 
 They wanted him to discard a requirement that auto workers agree to wage and benefit concessions that would bring their compensation in line with that paid nonunion workers. 
 Mr. Obama was advised in the bailout discussions by a former Federal Reserve chairman, Paul A. Volcker, who was at the Fed when Congress approved assistance to Chrysler in 1979; Austan Goolsbee, a professor of economics at the University of Chicago; and Joshua Steiner, a former Treasury official with a background in restructuring. 
 Brian Johnson, a veteran industry analyst with Barclays Capital, said the outgoing Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., had ''tied up this money with some string.'' He added that the ''U.A.W. is going to request it to be untied, and the question is whether Obama will untie the string.'' 
 On Friday, Mr. Obama reiterated in a statement that all parties in the industry should have to give up something so the auto companies could revive and change. 
 ''There are going to be some painful steps that have to be taken,'' he said later at a news conference. 
 No matter the steps Mr. Obama takes, he is likely to seek a range of opinions. That is what happened in June 2006, when he invited a group of environmental leaders to meet with him to discuss legislation that would increase fuel economy. 
 At the time, none at the meeting knew that Mr. Obama planned a presidential bid, said Mr. Becker, who was then representing the Sierra Club. 
 He said that Mr. Obama told them: ''If you guys think this is helpful, then I want to go ahead and push this. But if you don't think it's helpful, I'll drop it. I don't have to do this.'' 
 Nonetheless, Mr. Becker, a longtime critic of Detroit's environmental policies, said he did not believe that Mr. Obama would force the car companies to submit to drastic measures. 
 ''I don't think they need to be afraid of Obama. He's not going to say 'by next Tuesday, everything has to be 40 miles per gallon,' '' Mr. Becker said. ''But in 10 years? Maybe.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (75%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008



812 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Sounds of Swagger And Sob Stories

BYLINE: By JON CARAMANICA

 BODY:
1. JAMEY JOHNSON ''That Lonesome Song'' (Mercury Nashville). The second album from this stoic country singer documents a series of battles -- with a woman, with alcohol and drugs, with a stubborn self. The scars and the bruises, they speak for themselves, as do the words that often seem to give out, exhausted and apologetic, halfway through.
 2. THE COOL KIDS ''The Bake Sale'' (C.A.K.E./Chocolate Industries). All memory is invention, anyway, so why shouldn't the most precise evocation of hip-hop's late-1980s New York golden age come from a pair of Chicago kids in their early 20s? This debut is more than tribute, though; the rapper Mikey Rocks has calm swagger, and Chuck Inglish's beats move in multiple directions without sacrificing crispness. 
 3. THE GASLIGHT ANTHEM ''The '59 Sound'' (SideOneDummy). The characters in this band's Springsteen-influenced punk songs can't be saved; years of atrophying in dead-end towns have rendered them helpless, resigned to their fates. But with his optimistic, wooly shouts, the singer Brian Fallon makes them sound like heroes, not cautionary tales.
 4. TAYLOR SWIFT ''Fearless'' (Big Machine). Teenage subject matter notwithstanding, there's nothing naive about this young singer's music; her second album is every bit as elegantly designed as her 2006 debut. Ms. Swift is one of pop's finest songwriters, country's foremost pragmatist and more in touch with her inner life than most adults.
 5. LIL WAYNE ''Tha Carter III'' (Cash Money/Universal Motown). So underwhelming, so imperfect: The flaws of Lil Wayne's sixth solo album seem so glaring because for the last two years, as he decimated the mixtape circuit with colorful, undulating rhymes, he has batted almost 1.000. Still, there's nothing wrong with .750.
 6. BON IVER ''For Emma, Forever Ago'' (Jagjaguwar). Bon Iver singer Justin Vernon's croon is high-pitched and spooky; his arrangements are spare and hushed. But the small and sometimes cryptic songs on this band's debut are deceptively tough, marching forward inexorably toward something that sounds a lot like bliss.
 7. DARIUS RUCKER ''Learn To Live'' (Capitol Nashville). More like Hootie and the Albatrosses: Shed of the bar-band dead weight, Mr. Rucker has looked within and discovered a country classicist with a keen pop ear. And then there's that voice, robust and honeyed and not at all, it turns out, a relic.
 8. YOUNG JEEZY ''The Recession'' (Def Jam). This Atlanta rapper has sneered and preached and boasted and mourned. But he has never, before now, seethed. This is a harsh, captivating album about hopelessness, and Jeezy spits out unsparing observations as if they tasted bad.
 9. THE ACADEMY IS ... ''Fast Times at Barrington High'' (Decaydance/Fueled by Ramen). Five years after promised, emo finally became power-pop this year, just in time for no one to care. That's a shame for this Chicago band, which has a slick, acidic frontman, William Beckett, and a cache of indestructible songwriting and production by S*A*M and Sluggo that even the Jonas Brothers would kill for.
 10. PLIES ''Da REAList'' (Slip-N-Slide/Atlantic). On this, one of two great albums he released this year, Plies is staunchly literal, more of a conversationalist than a rapper. But why bother with metaphor, imagery and cadence when straight talk can be this rich? 
 Top Songs
 SHAWTY LO, FEATURING LUDACRIS, YOUNG JEEZY, PLIES AND LIL WAYNE ''Dey Know (Remix)'' (Asylum)
 NE-YO ''Closer'' (Def Jam)
 LIL WAYNE ''A Milli'' (Cash Money/Universal Motown)
 DEMI LOVATO AND JOE JONAS ''This Is Me'' (Hollywood)
 D-BLOCK ''It's Like That'' (Koch)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Taylor Swift at the announcements of this year's Grammy nominations.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEWEL SAMAD/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - GETTY IMAGES)
 Chuck Inglish, left, and Mikey Rocks of the Chicago duo Cool Kids.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CLAYTON HAUCK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); MUSIC (90%); COUNTRY MUSIC (90%); RAP MUSIC (89%); HIP HOP CULTURE (89%); SONG WRITING (73%)

PERSON: TAYLOR SWIFT (78%); LIL WAYNE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (91%) TENNESSEE, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2008



813 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR TRANSITIONS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: A Lean War Machine

BYLINE: By WILLIAM A. OWENS. 
William A. Owens, a retired Navy admiral who was the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff from 1994 to 1996, is writing a book on 21st-century security.

 BODY:
CAN Barack Obama afford to keep the Defense Department's budget at the extraordinary levels of the last seven years? With the spreading recession, the answer is no. Can he make cuts without jeopardizing national security and the safety of our troops? The answer is yes -- but only if we demand that contractors, the four services and lawmakers make their own interests a lower priority and build a stronger military based on joint-service cooperation and real innovation.
 In 2008, the United States has spent nearly $700 billion on defense. That is more than twice as much as the next five militaries in the world combined. Half-a-trillion dollars went to the Pentagon's ''base budget'' and $180 billion more paid for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Even if both conflicts ended today, we would face continuing war costs, including those to replace equipment and tend to the wounded. 
 The American war machine that swept away the Saddam Hussein regime was built during the eight years of the Clinton presidency for about $300 billion a year (adjusted for inflation). George W. Bush added more than a trillion dollars over the past eight years, not including money that went to Afghanistan and Iraq. 
 Some may argue defense spending is just what we need in a recession, pointing to how the United States spent itself out of the Great Depression to fight World War II. But our economy has changed fundamentally since then, moving from an industrial base to a service and information base. And unlike in 1942, the American military today is already vastly superior to any other. 
 The claim that continuing extraordinary military expenditures are good for the economy is false. There are much better Main Street investments to end the recession around (public works and education, to name a couple). There is no need to keep military spending level -- the money is going largely to maintain a military that is increasingly less effective in meeting future security challenges, and hundreds of millions of dollars are squandered because of inefficiency, poor budgeting and greed. 
 The saddest thing about this is that the Pentagon tends to make cuts by trying to stretch and shave existing programs. What President Dwight D. Eisenhower called the ''military-industrial complex'' is resurgent, this time driven by defense contractors. Their myopic drive to assure quarterly profits stifles innovation. And little changes because they wield inordinate influence through contracts in nearly every Congressional district. 
 There is a better way, one that turns the necessity of cost reductions into a military more suited to the national security challenges we will face down the road. We need to realize the principles of what military planners called the ''revolution of military affairs'' of the mid-1990s. To do so calls for innovations in three areas: first, a joint-service perspective that emphasizes the interdependence of the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps; second, investment that focuses on cutting-edge information technology systems that allow our forces to work together more effectively, rather than more spending on the complex and expensive major weapons systems of the past; and last, changes in the way the Pentagon goes about assessing its needs and contracting.
 ''Jointness'' can reduce redundancies: by acting separately, the services needlessly duplicate one another's efforts in logistics, communications, intelligence, medical services and administration -- not to mention several areas of war-fighting. Because each service operates its bases independently, we have far too many. Consolidating them into ''megabases'' would make for greater effectiveness and save tens of billions. Likewise, an emphasis on information technology can increase the strength of the force while it reduces the need for manpower, the single most expensive aspect of today's military. 
 We must eliminate the unjustified excesses of the military-industrial complex, the dangerous reticence in meeting the real challenges of the 21st century, and the inertia within the national security establishment. By restarting the revolution in military affairs, we can better support our national security and the men and women in our military, who deserve the very best that money can buy. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NICK DEWAR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); IRAQ WAR (76%); ARMED FORCES (72%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2008



814 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: Moments That Float And Sting

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
BELOW, a list of the most memorable or compellingly performed or just plain stuck-in-my-head television moments of the year. Let's begin.
 VIC DEAD ENDS (''The Shield,'' FX) Shawn Ryan's grim, spectacular treatise on police corruption concluded its seventh and final season by correcting our vision. We had been looking for the good in Detective Vic Mackey (Michael Chiklis), but there was none. The last, chilling scene of the series recalled the end of ''Goodfellas'' as if imagined by Kafka. It said everything it needed to, delivering Mackey's comeuppance as a horror worse than prison: a cubicle and a desk job with the feds, thousands of psychic miles from the blood, glory and bullying that kept his cold heart pumping. 
 RICHARD S. FULD JR. IN THE HOT SEAT In his October testimony before the House Committee on Oversight and Government Control, Mr. Fuld, the former Lehman Brothers chairman, emerged as one of the most mesmerizing reality-television figures of the year, exercising members of Congress in his resistance to provide the dramatic mea culpa they wanted. At the most superficial level Mr. Fuld looks the villain -- dark and prone to intense expression -- but he refused to play one on TV, no matter how hard the committee, venting rage over every unjust executive compensation package ever written, provoked him. 
 DON DRAPER MENTORING (''Mad Men,'' AMC) Tony Soprano could truly reveal himself only to his mental-health professional, Dr. Jennifer Melfi, and Don Draper's deepest and most interesting female relationships are playing out far from his sexual playpen. In a flashback early in the series's excellent second season Don (Jon Hamm) is shown visiting Peggy (Elisabeth Moss) in a psychiatric hospital during her mysterious absence from Sterling Cooper. Exquisitely cold and restrained in its outline, the scene nevertheless solidifies the compassionate bond -- sexless, opaque, unspoken -- between two colleagues and unwitting soul mates who share the fierce ambition of the low-born trying to pass in the patrician world of '60s Madison Avenue, each in possession of destructive secrets.
 THERAPY INTERRUPTED ('In Treatment,'' HBO) Among the finest dramas of the year, this adaptation of an Israeli series about psychotherapy reached its pinnacle at the end of the narrative arc of the young gymnast Sophie (Mia Wasikowska), when her absent, narcissistic father crashed one of her therapy sessions. In an ingenious bit of casting, producers gave us the Peter Pan-ish Peter Horton as a parent fresh to the anguish of having tried hard but not nearly hard enough.
 ROSE AGAINST A MACHINE (''Brotherhood,'' Showtime) The bleak, brilliantly acted drama of political corruption and familial decay set in Providence, R.I., has Fionnula Flanagan as Rose Caffee, a Shakespearean matriarch of a lost, brutal clan whose members occasionally meet for dinner but cannibalize one another by lunch. Rose is a broken bird, fighting modernity in her insular Irish neighborhood, and losing. In a single, excruciating encounter with an automated voice machine, during a call to her health maintenance organization, Ms. Flanagan powerfully captured her character's enfeebled battle and the show's relentless spirit of futility.
 LETTERMAN GETS MAD (''Late Night With David Letterman,'' CBS) Normally politically tepid, David Letterman lost it this fall when John McCain canceled a guest appearance, ostensibly to deal with the economic crisis in Washington. Addressing a clip that revealed the senator to be prepping for an interview with Katie Couric instead, Mr. Letterman said: ''Hey, John, I got a question. You need a ride to the airport?'' His tirade quickly came to stand as a benchmark for civilian frustration with the Republican campaign.
 JANET THOMPSON FINDS HER VOICE (''Swingtown,'' CBS) This 1970s costume drama, set in the suburban North Shore of Chicago, seemed to encapsulate the entire span of the women's liberation movement in a single flash. Stuck in a failing marriage, the Tupperware matron Janet Thompson (played lovingly by Miriam Shor) gets her first published newspaper column delivered to her door by an admiring colleague. But as she realizes in an instant, the modern woman doesn't necessarily get to have it all: her caller is on his way to a date -- with a man. 
 THE SKY FALLING (''Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles,'' Fox) A spinoff of the ''Terminator'' films, this drama of apocalyptic prevention revels in an end-of-days theism. And at no point did it do so more cinematically than during the first-season finale last spring, when federal agents in a botched raid tumbled from the sky to the tune of Johnny Cash's Armageddon anthem, ''The Man Comes Around.'' Quentin Tarantino could not have done better.
 PETER O'TOOLE BEING PETER O'TOOLE (''The Tudors,'' Showtime) I don't love Showtime's Harlequin Romance adaptation of the reign of Henry VIII, or even like it, but Mr. O'Toole's inaugural appearance as Pope Paul III during the series's second season was just too good to forget. Introducing his character as if the pope were a retired executive bored in his Florida condominium village, Mr. O'Toole brought wit to the show and an awareness of its folly.
 MICHELE BACHMANN IN OVERDRIVE (''Hardball with Chris Matthews,'' MSNBC) The divisive presidential election brought national exposure to Representative Michele Bachmann, a Minnesota Republican, who kept turning up all over television to denounce leftist agendas. Her most embarrassing moment: an October appearance on ''Hardball'' in which she suggested that the American news media ''take a great look at the views of the people in Congress and find out, are they pro-America or anti-America?'' Shortly after she produced a backpedaling ad to explain that ''I may not always get my words right.'' Not everyone can be Sarah Palin. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Richard S. Fuld Jr., the former chief executive of Lehman Brothers, appears before Congress. Top right, Peter Horton, left, with Gabriel Byrne on ''In Treatment.'' Below right, Miriam Shor, center, on ''Swingtown.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY SONJA FLEMMING/CBS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY HBO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (86%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); PSYCHIATRY (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (67%); MENTAL HEALTH (64%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (64%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (60%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: RICHARD S FULD (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2008



815 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: December 21, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 IN DARFUR, ANGRY YOUTHS
 Become a Potent Force
 They are young, increasingly angry and outspoken about their uncertain fate. Having come of age in the refugee camps of Darfur, they are challenging -- in some cases, it is thought, killing -- the traditional sheiks. But their combustibility and opposition to any compromise with the Sudanese government also complicate matters for rebel leaders. PAGE 6 
 AMBUSH AS A WINDOW
 The attackers struck a supply convoy in northwest Afghanistan, killing, capturing, destroying and stealing. The man behind the ambush is suspected to be one who was freed from detention only weeks before by President Hamid Karzai. The situation has proved to be an embarrassment for the government and an example of the growing presence of the Taliban in an area that had been relatively peaceful. PAGE 18 
 UPDATING TREASON LAWS
 People in Russia agreed that the old law on treason and espionage was too vague and needed revision. But the proposed new one is thought by some to expand the definition of treason too much. A fear is that in their present form the revisions could presage a return of the Soviet-era practice of muzzling critics. PAGE 12 
 FLYING SHOES TURN POPULAR
 It is a matter of perspective: See a pair of oxfords hurled at President Bush and you may think, Oh, my. But if you are Ramazan Baydan in Istanbul, you think, I made those shoes. The claim cannot be verified, and Mr. Baydan is not the only one to have lodged it. But orders for his entry, formerly known as Ducati Model 271, have been soaring -- even in the United States. PAGE 28
 NATIONAL
 EXTENDED BENEFITS SERVE
 As a Lifeline at the Edge
 Of the more than 5.4 million Americans receiving unemployment benefits, they are the ones nearest the edge: out of work for so long that they depend on a second emergency extension of unemployment insurance. For Rick E. Rockwell, it is a life of foreclosure proceedings, unpaid utility bills and unanswered job applications. PAGE 27
 DOES IT HAVE TO RHYME?
 The assignment: produce and read an ''occasional poem'' to commemorate the inauguration of President-elect Barack Obama. Elizabeth Alexander, who teaches at Yale, has drawn it. One thing she knows: her offering will be brief. PAGE 27
 TESTING OBAMA AUTO PLAN
 President-elect Barack Obama has long had an interest in changes for the American automobile industry, and after he takes office he will have a chance to push for them. But the fragile financial shape of Detroit, and other priorities, like an economic stimulus program, make it unclear how many compromises he might have to make. PAGE 38
 NEW YORK
 TAX THE RICHEST?
 He'd Rather Not
 Gov. David A. Paterson, having already proposed 137 tax and fee increases, says he does not want to top it off by raising income taxes for the rich. But interest groups are urging him to do so to avoid budget cuts, and he may decide he has no choice. PAGE 45
 BEHIND THE DISCORD
 Bob Kerrey's tenure as president of the New School has included increases in degree-program enrollment and freshman applications and an endowment that has more than doubled. But a faculty in revolt contends that he undervalues academics, leaves professors out of decision-making and has a frenetic and mercurial management style. PAGE 45
 KENNEDY HINTS AT POLICY
 As Caroline Kennedy continues her effort to convince Gov. David A. Paterson that she deserves the seat being vacated by Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, she has provided answers to 15 questions posed by The New York Times. Her answers, although brief, cover part of the broad array of issues, from the parochial to the profound, providing a glimpse of her political ideology. PAGE 47
 Neediest Cases 48
 OBITUARIES
 RABBI DAVID L. LIEBER, 83
 A leader of Conservative Judaism in the United States, he was the editor of a controversial book of Torah translation and commentary that called into question the historical accuracy of some of the primary accounts found in the Old Testament. PAGE 42
 DAVY GRAHAM, 68
 A British guitarist whose musical fusions, technique and tuning shaped generations of musicians. PAGE 42
 SPORTS
 PITCHING FOR PENNIES,
 Relatively Speaking
 At the other end of the financial spectrum from C. C. Sabathia is Clay Zavada, a 24-year-old minor-league lefty reliever who still has to work outside of baseball to pay the bills. He pretty much fell out of the game after his father died in 2006, but he has pitched his way back to a chance to compete for a spot on the Arizona Diamondbacks' major league roster. PAGE 1
 A FOOTBALL LIFER
 He won a Super Bowl with Green Bay, and lost one that still pains him. This is to be his last year coaching the Seattle Seahawks, after which he plans to take a one-year sabbatical. He has plenty of other interests -- maybe he'll open a bookstore, he jokes. But the football itch is still there for Mike Holmgren. Don't be surprised to see him back around the game somewhere, sometime. PAGE 1
 OPPORTUNITY MISSED
 The problem is not new: though college football is loaded with black players, there are only a few black head coaches. But this year that gap has been highlighted by the hirings at two premier programs -- Auburn and Tennessee -- of coaches who failed spectacularly in their previous assignments. They are white. Meanwhile, the country's hottest young African-American coach, Turner Gill of Buffalo, was passed over. PAGE 1
 A MATCHUP OF SMITHS
 At the end of the Giants game against the Carolina Panthers on Sunday, Steve Smith will be on the winning team. He is a receiver, modest of physique and under 6 feet tall, from metropolitan Los Angeles. But whether he will be the one wearing No. 12 (of the Giants) or No. 89 (Panthers) is the issue to be decided. PAGE 6
 Two Fumbles 30 Years Apart 7
 Week In Review
 A CROP OF SCANDALS
 Befitting the Moment
 Alessandra Stanley writes that a sure sign of economic recession is when the scandals that dominate the news cycle don't focus on infidelity and lust but instead on greed and fraud, and class resentment is all the rage. PAGE 1
 WORDS THAT BUZZED IN '08
 A lexicographer rounds up some of the biggest buzzwords of 2008, from ''in the tank'' to ''hockey mom.'' PAGE 3
 HANDING IT DOWN
 Several of the high-profile candidates under consideration for Hillary Rodham Clinton's Senate seat are, like the senator herself, members of powerful political families. And while nepotism has a negative connotation among people, the rest of nature is all for it. PAGE 7 
 Editorial
 HOW TO PAY FOR A 21ST-CENTURY MILITARY
 America's armed forces need to make major changes: more ground forces, less reliance on the reserves, new equipment and training to replace cold-war weapons systems and doctrines. The Pentagon can no longer be handed a blank check. This is what can be cut back or canceled in order to pay for new equipment and other reforms that are truly essential to keep this country safe. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
 Op-Ed
 FRANK RICH
 The feel-good fairy tale ''Slumdog Millionaire'' is a perfect escape from Bernie Madoff's Wall Street. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 How America's housing crisis has devastated one Chinese village and its artists' colony. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 There's bad news on the naughty-or-nice front: Liberals show tremendous compassion in pushing for generous government spending to help the needy, but when it comes to individual contributions to charitable causes, they are cheapskates. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11
 CHALLENGES ACROSS THE SEA
 And Across the Potomac
 In six Op-Ed articles, experts in foreign affairs and military policy give Barack Obama advice on global diplomatic challenges and reforming America's armed forces. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGES 11-12

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (86%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (75%); TREASON (73%); REFUGEES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); TALIBAN (71%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (70%); ESPIONAGE (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); TAX INCREASES (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); HAMAD KARZAI (56%); DAVID PATERSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (69%) SUDAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2008



816 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS TRANSITIONS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Let Russia Stop Iran

BYLINE: By ODED ERAN, GIORA EILAND and EMILY LANDAU. 
Oded Eran is the director of the Institute for National Security Studies. Giora Eiland, a retired major general in the Israeli Army, and Emily B. Landau are senior research associates at the institute.

DATELINE: Tel Aviv 

 BODY:
 NINE months have passed since the United Nations Security Council approved its most recent resolution imposing sanctions on Iran. That resolution, like its two predecessors, has failed to deter Tehran, which will soon be in a position to create a working nuclear weapon. Western intelligence establishments estimate that date as not later than mid-2010.
 The problem with any Security Council resolution is that Russia and China, two of the five permanent members, have refused to adopt biting measures. Without tougher sanctions, there is no hope that Iran will reconsider its determination to make a bomb and finally begin to negotiate seriously with the West. Sanctions that would hurt Iran, like an embargo on its imports of gasoline, could deter Tehran from pursuing the bomb. 
 The key to a tougher Security Council resolution is Russia, and this provides an opening for Barack Obama. After taking office, he should offer Moscow a grand bargain. For its part, the United States would suspend or even cancel its plans to set up the missile defenses in Eastern Europe that the Kremlin adamantly opposes, and also adopt a more cautious stance as far as admitting into NATO the countries that Russia views as part of its zone of influence.
 Russia's side of the bargain would be to join in the West's tougher stance against Iran's nuclear military program and to stop supplying Iran with conventional weapons, many of which then find their way to Hezbollah in Lebanon and other militant groups in the region. 
 If Russia were to support much stronger economic pressure on Iran, Mr. Obama could proceed on a double track: first to put the threat of military intervention back on the table, but also to offer to conduct direct talks with Iran without preconditions. What would be asked of Tehran initially would be a gesture of good faith: it would, three months after the start of the negotiations, have to make an implicit commitment to halt its enrichment activities. (Tehran would not be required to make a public declaration, which it fears would make it look weak in the eyes of its populace and its neighbors.) 
 Negotiations would have to deal with issues that go beyond the nuclear file. Iran views itself as a regional power, proud of its history, its rich culture and its military and technological capacity. The dialogue would involve the Persian Gulf security situation in general, the future of the American presence in Iraq, Syria's role in Lebanon, and efforts to settle the unrest in Afghanistan and Pakistan. 
 If such a three-way deal could be pulled off, everyone wins with very little loss of face. The United States would gain a leading role in the international arena, reversing years of questionable Bush administration decisions. And, as it claims the missile defense system is intended primarily to defend against an Iranian nuclear attack, the deal would obviate its need. 
 Russia would give up its weapons and some commercial sales to Iran, but there is much more profit for Moscow to be made trading with a respectable Iran than a pariah state. The American reversal on missile defense would be portrayed as a victory for Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, and Moscow would gain international respectability by helping to avert the serious crisis that would occur should Iran develop the bomb. 
 Iran, in exchange for relinquishing its nuclear dreams, would avoid painful sanctions, be readmitted to the international community and eventually gain the economic and political benefits of being recognized as a regional power. 
 Unless something changes the dynamic soon, Iran will become a nuclear power, which will put the Obama administration in a terrible bind. Not only would it complicate America's projects in Iraq and Afghanistan, it would also certainly derail any peace negotiations among Israel and its Palestinian and Syrian neighbors. 
 The United States and Israel will both welcome new political leadership next year. We hope that the new prime minister of Israel can see the wisdom of such a deal among America, Iran and Russia, and persuade Mr. Obama that it could transform the Middle East and the entire international scene. The alternative is more stalemate and an Iran that grows more menacing by the day. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NICK DEWAR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (70%); HEZBOLLAH (69%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (67%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); HEZBOLLAH (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%) INDIAN OCEAN (51%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); IRAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); LEBANON (90%); SYRIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPE (79%); GULF STATES (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2008



817 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; DUMBO; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Inside a Gritty Brooklyn Factory, Potomac Fever

BYLINE: By CAROLINE H. DWORIN

 BODY:
ON Thursday, Dec. 11, Jim Donnelly got the call at his office on Jay Street in Dumbo for the biggest job he had ever had. Emmett Beliveau, the executive director of the Presidential Inaugural Committee, told him that Precise Continental, Mr. Donnelly's 26-year-old printing company, had won the bid to produce one million gold-and-black engraved invitations for the inauguration of President-elect Barack Obama.
 Mr. Donnelly gathered his staff for the announcement, and a cheer went up. ''They were ecstatic,'' he said. ''They wanted to be a part of history.'' 
 To meet the Jan. 2 deadline, Mr. Donnelly's 65 employees have to work around the clock. But no one was complaining, Mr. Donnelly said, and he put out dozens of calls for rush orders of paper, ink and the like.
 According to Mr. Donnelly, Precise Continental was selected over rival printers because it is a union company, it uses recycled paper and it is certified by the Forest Stewardship Council, which promotes responsible forest management. Although Clark Stevens, a spokesman for the inaugural committee, would not confirm that those factors were decisive, he did say, ''These are issues that President-elect Obama campaigned on and that have concerned him throughout his career.'' 
 Several days after the phone call, the snow fell heavily on the cobblestones in Dumbo, and trains rattled over the Manhattan Bridge. Inside Precise Continental, there was an almost poetic combination of mechanical repetition and human industry, all on an enormous ink-stained wooden floor. It could have been the 1800s.
 The first order arrived by truck on Monday, from Neenah Paper, a Wisconsin company. Ink came on Tuesday from BuzzInk, in Chicago.
 With clean hands, the workers inspected each invitation at each step in the process, and fed great machines moving back and forth. ''This gentleman here can feed by hand as good as the automatic press can,'' said Mr. Donnelly of a man he called Bobby, who was seated in front of a massive instrument moving sheets of paper from his left hand to his right.
 Precise Continental prints stationery and specialty items, like certificates for Fordham's million-dollar donors and invitations to an Emmy after-party sponsored by TV Guide. As for the inaugural invitations, they are being printed on recycled paper called Classic Crest (''It's a distinguished cream color,'' said Bernie Hennessy, area sales director at Neenah Paper), with an inaugural seal at the top in gold. The curling black script, modified versions of Shelley Allegro and Kuenstler typefaces, begins, ''The Presidential Inaugural Committee requests the honor of your presence. ...''
 Mr. Donnelly's plant will hum 20 hours a day, with the workers in two shifts, to complete the project. ''Our goal is to get as much done before Christmas Eve,'' Mr. Donnelly said, ''so they don't have to work the day after Christmas.'' He would not say how much the invitation project will cost. 
 A small, dark-haired, steady-handed man named Augusto Lovato, who speaks more Spanish than English, hunched over a drawing board in a quieter room off the main floor, a dusty lamp nearby. Peering though an old magnifying glass at a copper plate, he expertly cleaned the serifs and curls. 
 ''This is a real economy,'' Mr. Donnelly said of the printing business. ''This is not that bogus economy of Wall Street. This country used to manufacture things.''
 Mr. Donnelly does not believe he will be asked to attend the inauguration. Of course, he has not finished printing the invitations. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A million inaugural invitations and one grateful printing firm. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING (88%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (77%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (75%); SALES MANAGEMENT (74%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (67%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (67%)

COMPANY: NEENAH PAPER INC (53%)

TICKER: NP (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (53%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (53%); SIC2611 PULP MILLS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2008



818 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Politics Gets the Entertainment Vote

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
The campaign provided the most compelling television moments of the year, if not the decade, and it swept all categories: comedy, drama and reality. Barack Obama was the standout star, but Hillary Clinton, John McCain and Sarah Palin were outstanding players, with a supporting cast that included John Edwards, the Rev. Jeremiah Wright, Joe the Plumber and Katie Couric, in her interview with Governor Palin. Other top contenders include: 
 'MAD MEN' The second season wasn't quite as sharp as the first, but this AMC series was still fantastic. In 1962, in the middle of the Cuban missile crisis, Don Draper (Jon Hamm) and his merry band of ad men were buffeted by nuclear anxiety and change they didn't believe in, including the civil-rights movement, women's simmering insurrection and Bob Dylan. 
 'MORNING JOE' This MSNBC early-morning political klatch is oddly addictive, even though its hosts at times come off like a cable news version of ''American Idol.'' Joe Scarborough is Simon Cowell, the Randy Jackson role is divided between Pat Buchanan and Mike Barnicle, and Mika Brzezinski is Paula Abdul, always seeking to say something nice about politicians the others mock. Willie Geist is their Ryan Seacrest, only much funnier. 
 TINA FEY The third season of the witty ''30 Rock'' is a little overcaffeinated, with a few too many celebrity cameos. (Someone should remind Ms. Fey that she is no longer the head writer of ''Saturday Night Live'' and doesn't have to keep producing material for unfunny guest hosts.) But her impersonation of Sarah Palin on ''SNL'' was so transcendent that it carried her, and her sitcom, over the finish line.
 'RECOUNT' This HBO flashback recalled the 2000 election and the battle for Florida in all its bizarre and inglorious moments, like haggling over the ''hanging chads,'' ''butterfly ballots'' and Secretary of State Katherine Harris. The retelling was sad, funny and riveting: a Peter Morganesque moment in history when character, political influence and luck fatefully collided. 
 'DANCING WITH THE STARS' This cheesy ABC competition works because nobody knows how to dance anymore, and everybody wishes he could. Aptly, it's a Depression-era competition refitted for modern times: celebrities, including clods and the elderly (they shoot Cloris Leachman, don't they?), put on Spanx and spangles and battle doing the cha-cha and the tango. It is America's version of Berlusconi TV. 
 'IN TREATMENT' This show, which HBO adapted from an Israeli hit series, was group therapy for the viewing masses and a fascinating peephole into a psychoanalyst's discontents. For nine weeks, five nights a week, viewers sat in on Gabriel Byrne's sessions over four days and, on the fifth day, watched him grapple with his own demons with his own therapist, played by Dianne Wiest.
 'THE WIRE' David Simon's fifth and final season of ''The Wire'' on HBO added a new strand -- the city room of a failing newspaper owned by a Tribune-like media company -- to the dealers, cops, addicts, teachers and city officials who were forever mired in corruption, inertia and economic decline. (All that cost-cutting and compromise didn't help the fictional paper or its model; in real life the Tribune Company has filed for bankruptcy protection.) 
 'FRINGE' This Fox show, from the ''Lost'' creator J. J. Abrams, is the best of a rash of new series that toy with the paranormal. Much credit belongs to Anna Torv who stars as an F.B.I. agent investigating bizarre murders that all appear to be linked to a powerful and mysterious multinational corporation. Ms. Torv is backed up ably by John Noble as a crazy but brilliant fringe scientist and his level-headed but skeptical son, played by Joshua Jackson. Like ''The X-Files'' and ''Lost'' it can be confusing to follow, but it's fun to watch.
 'NCIS' The time has come to pay tribute to this long-running, often scorned but hugely popular CBS procedural that stars Mark Harmon. (It's a guilty pleasure that critics, including this one, rarely admit to liking but often watch.) It's a top-rated show probably because it manages to blend a playful spirit with classic forensic whodunit gravity -- and disgusting autopsies. 
 'GOSSIP GIRL' The second season of this CW series moved away from even the slimmest pretense of SAT tutoring or chemistry labs and turned this wicked, lubricious take on private school privilege into ''Dangerous Liaisons: Teen Edition.'' Spoiled Park Avenue kids wallow in the perks of adulthood (especially sex, alcohol and Barneys shopping sprees), and their spoiled parents indulge their puppy-love passions. It's an arch, knowing nighttime soap, much funnier and fresher than ''Grey's Anatomy'' or ''Private Practice.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, John Noble, Joshua Jackson and Anna Torv in ''Fringe,'' a new Fox series from J. J. Abrams.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG BLANKENHORN/FOX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (89%); REALITY TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); SARAH PALIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); TINA FEY (58%); SIMON COWELL (58%); J J ABRAMS (58%); RYAN SEACREST (58%); KATIE COURIC (58%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Mad Men (TV Program)>; Wire, The (TV Program)>; Fringe (TV Program)>; NCIS (TV Program)>; Mad Men (TV Program)>; Wire, The (TV Program)>; Fringe (TV Program)>; NCIS (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2008



819 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
HOLIDAY HOURS The stock market will close at 1 p.m. and the bond market at 2 p.m. on Wednesday ahead of the Christmas holiday. On Thursday, the markets, banks, government offices and most businesses will be closed for Christmas. 
 On Friday, markets, businesses and governments will be closed in much of Europe, Canada, South Africa and Australia for Boxing Day.
 ECONOMIC REPORTS Despite the short workweek, some important economic data will be released. Reports will include the final reading of gross domestic product for the third quarter, the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment survey, new-home sales for November and existing-home sales for November (Tuesday); and durable goods for November and personal income and spending for November (Wednesday). 
 CORPORATE EARNINGS There will be only a few notable earnings reports, from Walgreen (Monday); and American Greetings and Micron Technology (Tuesday).
 ET CETERA The legal battle between the Federal Trade Commission and Whole Foods Market over its acquisition of Wild Oats Markets goes back before a judge in Washington (Monday).
 President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and Jose Manuel Barroso, above, the president of the European Commission, meet with President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva at the European Union-Brazil summit meeting (Monday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); BOXING DAY (79%); BOND MARKETS (78%); WORK WEEK (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); NEW HOME SALES (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); EXISTING HOME SALES (71%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); DURABLE GOODS (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); JUDGES (51%)

COMPANY: WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (56%); AMERICAN GREETINGS CORP (56%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

TICKER: WFM (NASDAQ) (56%); AM (NYSE) (56%); MU (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (56%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (56%); NAICS511191 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (56%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (56%)

PERSON: JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (52%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (51%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); FRANCE (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008



820 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1598 words

HEADLINE: A Reeling South Carolina City Is a Snapshot of Economic Woes

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

DATELINE: COLUMBIA, S.C. 

 BODY:
Even before the job fair opens, the line snakes into the parking lot of the state fairground, a muted parade of lives derailed by layoffs.
 ''It kills me, it eats me up inside,'' said Raymond Vaughn, who has been out of work for seven months, since he lost his job as a window installer. His fiancee now pays the bills. ''I go into this fantasy world where I'm like, I'm in the wrong life and I'm actually a millionaire. It really bothers me I can't do the things I'd like for her. Sometimes you get where you feel less than a man.''
 As the American economy sinks deeper into one of the more punishing recessions since the Depression, frustration and fear color the national conversation. 
 This city in the center of South Carolina is an ideal listening post. According to a range of indicators assembled by Moody'sEconomy.com -- from job growth to change in household worth -- this metropolitan area came closer than any other to being a microcosm of the nation over the last decade. 
 This is now an unfortunate distinction. Some 533,000 jobs disappeared from the economy in November, the worst month since 1974. In South Carolina, a government panel is predicting that the state's unemployment rate could reach 14 percent by the middle of next year.
 No speculative real estate bubble can explain what is happening in this metropolitan area of roughly 700,000 people. Neither the brick Georgian homes in the city's core nor the ranch-style houses on the suburban fringes rose or fell much in value. The financial wizards of Wall Street seem far from the palmetto-dotted campus of the University of South Carolina and the domed state capitol downtown. 
 Yet as the toll continues to mount from an era of financial recklessness -- as banks cut credit from households and businesses, reinforcing austerity -- the damage has spread here, choking economic activity at places ranging from shopping malls to factories.
 ''This was not of our doing,'' said Doug Woodward, an economist at the University of South Carolina. ''We just got swept up in the crisis of confidence.'' 
 The Carolinas may conjure thoughts of textile mills and tobacco fields, but Columbia has a diverse economy. The state is a major employer. So is the university, along with hospitals and banks. The Fort Jackson Army base employs 9,200 people. United Parcel Service has a regional hub here. Michelin operates a tire factory next door in Lexington County. The Computer Science Corporation develops software north of the city.
 Early in the year, layoffs were concentrated among factory and warehouse workers. ''Now, they run the gamut,'' said Jessica Horsely, a case manager at the local employment office. ''You see a heightened sense of desperation. People are just grasping for anything.''
 President-elect Barack Obama has pledged to spend as much as $775 billion on his economic plan, including infrastructure projects like bridges, roads and classrooms, to put people back to work.
 Columbia's mayor, Bob Coble, is consumed with capturing some of those dollars for his city. He has assembled a list of ready-to-go projects totaling $140 million that he said could generate construction jobs and propel further economic development.
 Mr. Coble, a Democrat who has been mayor for 18 years, has in mind the redevelopment of North Main Street, a bedraggled corridor of hard-luck retailers that lacks sidewalks in many spots, with exposed power lines dipping down to cracked pavement. That project is already under way, putting down sidewalks and burying power lines in a $19 million first phase. An additional $54 million could complete it.
 Similar projects have restored shine to Columbia's downtown, which was in a similar state of decay a decade ago, and nurtured the Vista neighborhood, a collection of brick warehouses transformed into trendy eateries. 
 The mayor has also been focused on expanding the so-called Innovista project, a campus developed by the university centered on research in areas like hydrogen-powered fuel cells and biotechnology. The aim is to cluster research labs, private companies and condominiums. 
 ''This will be a once in a generation opportunity to transform a city with projects that have been on the books,'' the mayor said over breakfast at a newly opened downtown Sheraton hotel set in an old bank whose original vault has become a cozy martini bar. ''These are not bridges to nowhere.''
 Yet questions confront the notion of putting people to work through federal largess. South Carolina's governor, Mark Sanford, a Republican, has been an ardent opponent of federal aid for states, branding it pork barrel spending. If the money is delivered to state agencies like the Department of Transportation, which has its own list of priorities, Columbia might be disappointed.
 Despite the attractiveness of Main Street, new sidewalks have drawn few retailers. North Main Street runs through a largely poor area, making it even less likely that improvements will attract business.
 Meanwhile, the recession intensifies.
 At the state fairgrounds, Lori Harris, 47, waited for the job fair to open. A year has passed since she graduated from college with an associate degree in medical assisting, yet she has been unable to find a decent job. 
 Ms. Harris previously ran her own house-painting company, but opted for a more stable career in a growing field. She saw an ad for the degree program on television: ''Come become a medical assistant!'' 
 Now, such talk seems farcical. She is paying $95 a month toward $23,000 in student loan debt. She is living with her boyfriend, who is supporting her, not always cheerfully. She has no health insurance and cannot see a specialist for a torn rotator cuff and recently applied for food stamps.
 ''I tried to better myself,'' she said, ''and I'm getting nowhere.'' 
 She was offered one job, as a medical technician dispensing pills to patients. The pay was $7.50 an hour. 
 ''Forget it,'' she said. ''I was like, 'Is it worth going to college? Did I waste my time?''' 
 She wondered if her age explains the rejections. Or her Boston accent. Or the smell of her cigarette smoking. 
 ''It's getting really discouraging,'' she said. 
 As the doors opened, people filed in quietly, entering a dark warehouselike space with concrete floors. 
 ''You want a job that makes you smile,'' proclaimed a placard at a booth for Wendy's, the fast food chain. Another sign advertised the benefits for counter workers, among them: ''free uniforms.''
 A Border Patrol officer stood in his olive green uniform, his laptop running video footage of Latinos running frantically through garbage strewn patches of desert, chased by helicopters and jeeps. Raymond Vaughn stopped and inquired about a job.
 ''You will have to relocate to the southwest border,'' said the recruiter, Michael Day. 
 The entry level pay was $36,000 a year. But the Border Patrol was looking for people no older than 40. Mr. Vaughn was 43.
 At the window install job, Mr. Vaughn made $11.50 an hour. Since his layoff, he has been living on an unemployment check of $221 a week, and on the wages his fiancee brings home from her job as a hospital receptionist. He has applied for more jobs than he can recall. ''They always say they'll call me,'' he said. ''They never do.'' 
 A former high school track star, Mr. Vaughn carried himself with pride. Yet as the months passed and his car deteriorated without any cash for repairs, as his loose-handled cooking pots went unreplaced, he was sinking. Among African-Americans, the national unemployment rate is above 11 percent, with Mr. Vaughn now part of that number. 
 ''Inside of me, I always felt like I was going to be greater than I am now,'' he said.
 The job fair brought more disappointment. Only one job seemed possible, a technician position at an air-conditioning company. The starting salaries were less than $10 an hour. 
 ''Even if I work for this, I'm taking a cut in pay,'' he said. ''But something's better than nothing.''
 At a booth for Amcol, a collection service that specializes in overdue medical bills, a recruiter made an aggressive pitch. 
 ''The more you do in collections,'' he said, ''the more you make.''
 Mary Bamou waited in line, holding copies of her resume. She has been out of work for three months, ever since she was briefly hospitalized, ending her minimum wage job as a food service worker at the university. Now, she is getting by on an unemployment check of less than $100 a week.
 Ms. Bamou, 50, has experience in medical billing, a skill she figured may translate to medical collections.
 ''Calling people up in these times is not going to be an easy task,'' she said. ''It's a job. Worst thing they can do to me after cussing me out is to hang up.''
 Frank Kelly, 52, surveyed the booths and wondered how much further this slide would go. 
 In the 1990s, he wrote computer manuals for I.B.M. in upstate New York, earning $65,000 a year. After he lost that job, he spent a dozen years supervising a lab that tested raw materials at a brake pad factory in nearby Orangeburg, S.C., where he made more than $55,000 a year. In October, amid the rapid deterioration of the Detroit automakers, Mr. Kelly was laid off.
 At the job fair, he was standing in line in a suit and tie, waiting to apply for a position at a pet food processor. 
 He and his wife have been living off her income as an accountant for a food distributor. One of her duties is to check the creditworthiness of customers, which gives her an uncomfortable view.
 ''She gets to see everybody going downhill,'' Mr. Kelly said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lori Harris is disappointed with her job prospects after having earned an associate degree in medical assisting a year ago. She now pays $95 a month toward $23,000 in student loan debt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRETT FLASHNICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (89%); CITIES (88%); DISMISSALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); SUBURBS (67%); ARMIES (64%); TIRE MFG (60%); TEXTILE MFG (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); TEXTILE MILLS (60%); ARMED FORCES (50%); RETAILERS (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (51%); COMPUTER SCIENCE CORP FEDERAL SECTOR (50%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (51%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (51%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (92%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008



821 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Forest Plan in Brazil Bears the Traces of an Activist's Vision

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO 

 BODY:
Twenty years ago, a Brazilian environmental activist and rubber tapper was shot to death at his home in Acre State by ranchers opposed to his efforts to save the Amazon rain forest.
 After his death at age 44, Francisco Alves Mendes, better known as Chico, became a martyr for a concept that is only now gaining mainstream support here: that the value of a standing forest could be more than the value of a forest burned and logged in the name of development.
 This month, Brazil took what environmentalists hope will be a big step forward in realizing Mr. Mendes's vision. The government of President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva introduced ambitious targets for reducing deforestation and carbon dioxide emissions in a nation that is one of the world's top emitters of this heat-trapping gas. 
 The plan promises to make Brazil a more influential player in global climate-change discussions, helping to push the United States and the European Union to agree to emissions cuts and head off the adverse effects of climate change. It could also encourage more pledges from wealthy countries seeking to essentially pay Brazil to preserve the forest for the good of all humanity.
 But some environmentalists question whether the new targets, which would reduce Brazilian deforestation by 72 percent by 2017, are achievable in a country that has shown few signs of adjusting its development model as a major food provider to the world, especially in the midst of a global economic crisis. 
 To achieve the first phase of planned cuts, Brazil would have to reduce deforestation next year by 20 percent, to less than 4,000 square miles. That would be the lowest amount per year ever recorded in Brazil, said Paulo Adario, the Amazon campaign director for Greenpeace in Brazil.
 Brazil's economy is centered on the export of agricultural products, like soybeans and beef, and commodities like iron ore.
 ''The Brazilian model is to be the food supplier to the world and a big supplier of ethanol,'' Mr. Adario said. ''The economy will continue to move in the same basic direction. There is no magic in Brazil.''
 Up until now, Brazil's economic choices have driven much of the deforestation in the Amazon, he said. In the late 1960s and the 1970s, the military government encouraged landless families to settle in the region. Road-building, land speculators and ranchers followed, and the forests fell at a quickening pace. 
 The burning and decomposition of trees produce carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas.
 Mr. Mendes organized tappers to confront crews and flew abroad to confront lenders paying for roads. His efforts to stop logging in an area planned for a forest reserve led to his death. Since his killing, on Dec. 22, 1988, more than 20 reserves have been created, protecting more than eight million acres.
 Mr. Mendes was an early advocate of the idea that people who live in the forest could create livelihoods from sustainable forest resources, rather than the one-time economic benefit of cutting down trees. Carbon financing, the compensation of forest dwellers for pursuing sustainable industries, would provide an added incentive, which is vital given the uncertain markets for natural rubber and other non-timber forest products.
 ''The notion that we in the north will help pay for that climate service is an important development and represents the mainstreaming of the concept that Chico Mendes and those like him were pioneers in creating,'' said Richard H. Moss, the head of climate change programs at the World Wildlife Fund in Washington.
 The killings of Mr. Mendes and of Sister Dorothy Stang, a 73-year-old Catholic nun who was gunned down in 2005 for speaking out against logging in the Amazon, ratcheted up international pressure on Brazil to find ways to limit forest clearing without sacrificing development. 
 ''Brazil was always on the defensive when it came to the question of climate change,'' said Carlos Minc, Brazil's environment minister. ''And now it has completely changed, passing a bolder plan than India and China.''
 Mr. Minc said the plan would help meet a demand of some of the more developed countries, including the United States, which has said it would not agree to firm emissions targets until less-developed countries that produce significant amounts of greenhouse gases do the same. 
 Deforestation produces more than a fifth of human-generated carbon dioxide by some estimates. Some 75 percent of Brazil's carbon dioxide emissions come from deforestation, Mr. Minc said. 
 Brazil's plan would sharply slice those emissions, reducing them by some 4.8 billion tons by 2018. Some environmentalists contend that deals involving compensation for forest protection could weaken climate agreements in many ways. They also say the plan leaves the most difficult targets to the government that will follow Mr. da Silva's. His term ends in 2010. 
 Still, it is viewed by some scientists and climate experts as major step forward. ''For the first time we have out in the open very clear goals for reduction in deforestation,'' said Walter Vergara, the lead climatologist for Latin America at the World Bank.
 The global recession could end up being a godsend by lowering demand for agricultural goods. 
 But it could also slow the flow of technology needed to make industries more efficient and limit pledges from foreign governments like Norway, Sweden and Germany, whose payments would help preserve the forest. So far, those countries have not suggested that they would reduce their contributions, Mr. Minc said. 
 ''The global recession and the climate crisis don't necessarily have to be adversaries, with one competing for the resources of the other,'' Mr. Minc said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A devastated area of forest used for cattle in March in Brazil. A government plan introduced targets for reducing deforestation and carbon dioxide emissions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LALO DE ALMEIDA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Francisco Alves Mendes, pictured in 1988, was killed by ranchers opposed to his efforts to save the rain forest. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTALISM (91%); EMISSIONS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); RAIN FORESTS (90%); DEFORESTATION (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (88%); AGRICULTURE (78%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FOREST FIRES (77%); CHEMICALS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); FOOD WHOLESALERS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); ALCOHOLS (62%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (62%); FOOD INDUSTRY (61%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (60%); EUROPEAN UNION (53%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (73%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008



822 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: Montel's Back, and Does He Have a Deal for You

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Although Montel Williams's talk show was canceled this year, it seemed to have been reincarnated last week at a studio in Fairfield, N.J. 
 Mr. Williams had gathered a live audience, self-help experts and people who had dealt with problems like the death of a daughter, and he stood before them, gesticulating, tearing up and nodding thoughtfully. 
 After almost an hour of discussing the problem of depression, Mr. Williams presented the guests with the answer to their problems: a set of books he had written. In other episodes, he suggested solving various issues by buying a debt-relief kit, a rotisserie grill or a blender. For this was not a television show. It was an infomercial, ''Living Well With Montel,'' and Mr. Williams is being paid depending on how well the products sell.
 Mr. Williams has put his ''Living Well'' brand on several new products, and he will soon promote other brands, too, like books from Men's Health magazine. He is paid no salary, only a share of profits that depends on how much he sells. (For now, the products are available only through a toll-free number and a Web site.) 
 Starting last weekend, Tristar Products, which owns the production and the merchandise, began showing the hourlong infomercial on national cable channels and broadcast networks, in the late-night and early morning hours when infomercials reign. 
 Keith Mirchandani, the chief executive of Tristar, said he would spend about $2.5 million a week buying advertising time for the infomercial, and expected to sell about $5 million worth a week of the merchandise Mr. Williams promotes in the production.
 In an interview, Mr. Williams said combining a talk-show format with sales was a logical extension of product placement, in which advertisers pay producers or networks to feature their merchandise, like a Coca-Cola cup seen on Fox's ''American Idol.'' It is meant to advertise products subtly, even if viewers skip traditional commercials.
 ''Every single television program is trying to figure out a way to do integrated advertising,'' Mr. Williams, 52, said. ''There may be those that throw stones, but then I say, 'Hold up a mirror.' '' He added that ''even the soap operas have integrated cans, keys, cars.'' 
 Mr. Williams is receiving a percentage of all the product sales. Tristar, an infomercial marketer based in Fairfield, Conn., that sells the Ab Roller and the Jack LaLanne juicer, owns the show and the products sold on it. (For existing products, Tristar creates special versions, like a two-pack of Mr. Williams's books, that are available only through the show.)
 Mr. Mirchandani said Tristar had a straightforward approach to the products it would sell.
 ''It's vanity,'' Mr. Mirchandani said. ''If you can make someone's life easier or faster, and give them instant results, that's what they want.'' 
 The company's formula is to introduce a problem and then offer a solution, Mr. Mirchandani said. For example, in one episode, Mr. Williams identifies childhood obesity as a problem, then offers his solution: a $199 blender that can make healthy soups and smoothies.
 While talk-show hosts have long plugged their books or their guests' books, Mr. Williams's promotions are a departure, with plugs for items like a fleece blanket with arms called the Toasty Wrap. ''Are they a leap?'' Mr. Williams said. ''Let's take a look at it. I watched 'The View' the other day, and they're passing out iPods.''
 ''I don't think it's a leap at all, because he's identifying problems the American public are having,'' Mr. Mirchandani said. The problem the Toasty Wrap solved, he said, was one of high heating bills.
 Mr. Williams said he was careful about choosing which products to endorse. ''These are products that can make peoples' lives either easier or help them live well,'' he said. 
 ''People right now are figuring out how to make ends meet,'' he said, adding that he tried to price his products reasonably. They range from $19.95 to $199. He took exception to a suggestion that a $199 blender was not a necessity in a tough economy.
 ''If you change your diet and eat more vegetables and fruits, you can change your health,'' he said. ''The truth is, when you say you don't need something like a juicer, a juicer is what's kept me alive.''
 Though this would seem a difficult time to sell products, infomercial companies tend to do well during recessions, said A. J. Khubani, the chief executive of a rival infomercial production firm, Telebrands. His company has set sales records in the last three months, he said. 
 Mr. Khubani said he thought it was because advertising time had become inexpensive, which means he can run ads more frequently. And when unemployment is high, he said, people have more time to watch television. 
 The infomercial that was taped last week was intended to sell two of Mr. Williams's books about depression. Producers had filled the audience with beauticians from Staten Island, sales representatives from Mary Kay, and with men and women who had responded to ticket offers on Essence.com, a site devoted to black women, among other places. 
 The offer did not state the tickets were for an infomercial; instead, it described a ''limited TV engagement'' for Mr. Williams that would ''focus on issues concerning men, women and families.''
 Mr. Williams is using many of the same tactics that he did on ''The Montel Williams Show,'' which ran for 17 years, produced and syndicated by CBS. During that time, he was criticized for exploiting guests. On many days, he revealed the results of paternity tests on the air. In one episode, the show featured a woman telling her sister that she had been sleeping with the sister's boyfriend of 14 years.
 ''There's not one of them I'm not proud of,'' he said. ''I don't know about putting people in vulnerable positions on national television. I never paid a guest.'' (His show did pay the betrayed sister a settlement after she sued for $10 million.)
 Last week, the audience seemed excited to be in Mr. Williams's presence. Men and women were nodding, rocking and murmuring as he exhorted them to think positively. His voice rising, he told the audience members to close their eyes and talk to themselves, aloud, about a special moment in their lives. Almost everyone complied.
 ''Appreciate who the heck you are!'' Mr. Williams shouted, to applause. ''Thank God he gave you a chance to wake up!'' 
 A moment later, he mentioned he would be selling his two books for the price of one on that day's episode.
 Charlie James III, of Tacoma, Wash., was in the audience because his son's mother was waiting backstage to talk to Mr. Williams about her depression, he said. 
 He had wanted to appear on the infomercial, too, ''to help people with the same problem,'' he said. The fact that the production was selling products did not bother him, he said. ''Everyone's got to make money somehow,'' Mr. James said. ''It's better to make it trying to help people than not so.''
 Product placement has its share of critics, who worry that advertising has too much influence on the content of television programming.
 Now that Mr. Williams is promoting products not just for ratings but for profits -- and using real people with real problems to help sell those products -- critics have raised questions about disclosure and ethics.
 The blurring of lines between television advertising and television entertainment has concerned advocates like Robert Weissman, the managing director of Commercial Alert,a Washington group that has lobbied for stricter regulation of product placement. 
 ''One issue is the deception issue, and whether viewers sufficiently understand that they're watching an advertisement, even if it's an entertaining advertisement,'' Mr. Weissman said.
 He said he was also troubled by people discussing their problems on this kind of program. ''These people, it sounds like, are being exploited,'' he said.
 Carol Bernstein, the vice president of the American Psychiatric Association and an associate professor of psychiatry at the New York University School of Medicine, said that issue was also of concern to her. 
 It might ''devalue patients who have these illnesses and make it seem like it's just part of a commodity,'' she said. ''That's really a social and societal question. Personally, I would find that offensive. I don't think this is something that is really appropriate for marketing.''
 Mr. Mirchandani said he hoped that by spring, stores like Costco and Wal-Mart would be selling the Living Well branded products, though he had not yet approached those retailers.
 Mr. Williams said he could envision a Living Well network, or Living Well aisles in stores.
 He objected to the notion that his latest venture was solely commercial. ''I'm dedicated to helping people,'' he said. ''Too often we do things because our motivation is in the wrong direction.'' 
 While the infomercial is not a charity effort, he said, ''neither was 'The Montel Williams Show.' Believe me, CBS made an inordinate amount of money,'' he said.
 ''I've promoted product from here to eternity for CBS and I didn't share in the profits,'' he said. ''The entire move of the media has been to push people in this direction.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Montel Williams's infomercials, pitching products like a blanket with arms, resemble his show. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
 As on his old show, Montel Williams tackles a new topic in each infomercial. Now he also offers a solution with a price tag. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFOMERCIALS (90%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (75%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (75%); PRODUCT PLACEMENT (75%); DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (74%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); BRANDING (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); CABLE TELEVISION (69%); NEW PRODUCTS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); MEN (68%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: MEN'S HEALTH MAGAZINE (69%); COCA-COLA CO (53%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008



823 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: Accounts, People, Miscellany

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
 Churchill Downs, Louisville, Ky., hired the New York office of Cramer-Krasselt to handle public relations, marketing and promotions to raise the brand profiles of the Kentucky Derby and the Kentucky Oaks horse races. Spending has not been determined. 
 People
 Matt Reinhard will join the Los Angeles office of DDB Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, as executive creative director, effective Jan. 8. He assumes duties from Mark Monteiro, chairman and chief creative officer at the office, who plans to take a sabbatical. Mr. Reinhard had been executive creative director at the San Francisco office of Draft FCB, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Mr. Reinhard is a son of Keith Reinhard, who once led DDB and helped form Omnicom; the elder Mr. Reinhard is now chairman emeritus of DDB.
 Teddy Brown, creative director at the Irvine, Calif., office of Draft FCB, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, was promoted to executive creative director. He assumes duties from Chris D'Amico, chief creative officer, who left to pursue other interests, the agency said. Mr. Brown, in his new role, will work with Jeff Maerov, senior vice president and group creative director.
 David Shearer joined MRM Worldwide, part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as senior vice president and executive creative director at the San Francisco office, a vacant post. Mr. Shearer had most recently been creative director at Spit Communications, a consulting company he founded.
 Leeann Mitchell Leahy, executive vice president and global planning director at the New York office of Lowe, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, was promoted to planning head. She assumes duties from Domenico Vitale, chief strategic officer for North America, who is leaving, the agency said.
 Miscellany
 Advertising spending in the United States fell 0.6 percent through the first three quarters, according to data compiled by the Nielsen Company, compared with the same period of 2007. The largest spending decline came in ads in local Sunday newspaper supplements, down 9.9 percent; the four worst-performing categories were all print-related. The largest spending gain was achieved by cable television, up 8.4 percent. Another company that tracks ad spending -- TNS Media Intelligence, part of the Kantar Group unit of WPP -- reported that ad spending in the United States fell 1.7 percent in the first three quarters compared with the same period last year. 
 Ogilvy North America, New York, part of the Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide unit of WPP, is beginning a worldwide initiative to help clients seek new strategies for marketing during the economic downturn. The efforts include a report, ''Doing More With Less: A Point of View on Marketing in a Recession,'' and a Web site (ogilvyonrecession.com).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (89%); STATISTICS (86%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); MARKETING STRATEGY (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); RECESSION (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (63%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%)

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (95%); CHURCHILL DOWNS INC (91%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (85%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (84%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (68%); CRAMER-KRASSELT CO (58%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (95%); CHDN (NASDAQ) (91%); OMC (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); NAICS711212 RACETRACKS (91%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) KENTUCKY, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008



824 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 610 words

PERSON: Bernard Crick 

HEADLINE: Sir Bernard Crick, 79, Political Theorist

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
Sir Bernard Crick, a prominent democratic socialist and political theorist who also wrote the first complete biography of George Orwell, one of his heroes, died on Friday in Edinburgh. He was 79. 
 The cause was cancer, The Guardian of London reported.
 Sir Bernard, a moderate socialist, believed in gradual reform, social equality and the importance of citizen participation in politics. He often served as an adviser to top Labor politicians and in recent years devised the civics exam that new arrivals to Britain must pass before becoming citizens or permanent residents. 
 But it was ''George Orwell: A Life,'' published in 1980 and widely praised for its wealth of detail and its shrewd analysis of Orwell's politics, that stood as his finest achievement. ''Not only was it a pioneering biography, but it remains the best one there is,'' said John Rodden, who has written several books on Orwell and edited The Cambridge Companion to George Orwell. ''For anyone who wants the full story of his life explained comprehensively, at times exhaustively, it is the book to go to.'' 
 Sonia Orwell, the writer's widow, granted Sir Bernard full access to all Orwell material but later grew alarmed at his zealous inquiry into the facts, like whether Orwell shot the elephant he wrote about in his famous essay ''Shooting an Elephant.'' Shortly before her death, in 1980, she stripped the book of its imprimatur as an authorized biography. 
 Bernard Rowland Crick was born in London and educated at the Whitgift School in South Croydon and at University College, London, where he earned a degree in economics in 1950 and a doctorate in political economy in 1956. After teaching at Harvard, McGill University in Montreal and the University of California, Berkeley, he returned to Britain in 1957 and spent the next eight years as a lecturer at the London School of Economics, where his politics put him at odds with the prevailing conservatism of the school's government department. 
 Unable to gain a professorship there, he traveled north to the University of Sheffield, where he created the department of politics. In 1971 he was named professor of politics at Birkbeck College, London, where he taught until 1984. For nearly 40 years, beginning in 1966, he helped edit the journal Political Quarterly. 
 After publishing ''The American Science of Politics'' (1958), a revised version of his doctoral dissertation, Sir Bernard made his mark with ''In Defense of Politics'' (1962), a spirited polemic in favor of politics as a worthy pursuit. In it he argued against ideology and in favor of ''political virtues'' like conciliation and compromise. The book quickly became a standard textbook in political science courses. 
 Throughout his career Sir Bernard looked for ways to apply political ideas to public policy. His book ''The Reform of Parliament'' (1964) led to his participation in practical efforts to change parliamentary procedure during the prime ministership of Harold Wilson.
 Later, David Blunkett, a former student of his at the University of Sheffield who became a member of Tony Blair's cabinet, called on his former teacher to develop a program for teaching citizenship in schools, a subject now taught at all state-run schools to students between 11 and 16. At Mr. Blunkett's request, he also devised a test on the English language and British culture for immigrants applying to become citizens or permanent residents. It became mandatory in November 2005.
 His three marriages ended in divorce. Sir Bernard is survived by two sons, Oliver and Thomas. In 2002 he was knighted for ''services to citizenship in schools and to political studies.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (78%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (73%); CANCER (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); CITIZENSHIP (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (88%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (77%); SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (77%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines, Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008



825 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: Exports From Japan Fall at a Record Pace

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Japanese exports plunged the most on record in November as demand for cars and electronics collapsed.
 Exports fell 26.7 percent compared with a year earlier, the Finance Ministry said Monday in Tokyo, the sharpest drop since comparable data were made available in 1980.
 ''The recession will be very severe as companies adjust investment, production and labor,'' said Yoshiki Shinke, a senior economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo. 
 Exports to the United States tumbled a record 34 percent.
 Imports fell 14.4 percent, the first decline in 14 months, but Japan still reported a trade deficit of 223.4 billion yen ($2.5 billion). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); RECESSION (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (86%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (53%)

COMPANY: DAI-ICHI LIFE INSURANCE CO (57%)

TICKER: 8750 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008



826 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Private Colleges Worry About a Dip in Enrollment

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
First came the good news for St. Olaf College: early-decision applications were way up this year. 
 Now comes the bad news: the number of regular applications is way down, about 30 percent fewer than at this time last year. 
 ''To be quite honest, I don't know how we'll end up,'' said Derek Gueldenzoph, dean of admissions at the college, in Northfield, Minn. ''By this time last year, we had three-quarters of all our applications. The deadline's Jan. 15. If what we've got now is three-quarters of what we're going to get, we're in big trouble. But if this turns out to be only half, we'll be fine.'' 
 Not all private colleges are reporting fewer applications this year. Even in the Midwest and Pennsylvania, where most colleges seem to have dwindling numbers, some are getting more applications than ever. Still, in a survey of 371 private institutions released last week by the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities, two-thirds said they were greatly concerned about preventing a decline in enrollment. 
 Getting exactly the right enrollment -- always a tricky proposition -- is especially crucial for small colleges with tuition-driven budgets. One case in point came last month, when Beloit College in Wisconsin announced it would eliminate about 40 positions because 36 fewer students than expected had enrolled. The college has about 1,300 students and gets three-quarters of its $55 million budget from tuition.
 Admissions officers nationwide point to several possible reasons for the drop in applications. Some students have pared their college lists this year. Many more are looking at less-expensive state universities. Many institutions accepted more students under binding early-decision programs, and each such acceptance drains off an average of 8 to 10 regular-decision applications. And some experts suspect that students are delaying their college plans. 
 The deadline at most colleges is still a few weeks off, so a last-minute flood of applications could raise the numbers to last year's level. But admissions officers say they are not counting on that. 
 ''I've been doing this a long time, and I don't remember a year when applications started out behind and didn't end up behind,'' said Steve Thomas, director of admissions at Colby College in Waterville, Me., where early-decision applications were higher than usual but regular applications are running about 14 percent behind.
 At Gettysburg College in Pennsylvania, where early-decision applications were up, regular applications are down about 15 percent, said Gail Sweezey, the director of admissions. 
 ''One thing that's happened this year is that there's all this talk, and one-sided media stories, about how private colleges are unaffordable,'' Ms. Sweezey said. ''It's become almost viral that there's no loans, that schools are having problems. The truth is that a lot of private colleges have more financial aid available this year, but there's lots of misinformation out there. And my guidance counselor friends tell me students may be applying to fewer places and turning to their state university, which will be at capacity.'' 
 If some private colleges are grappling with the specter of too few applications, public universities and community colleges are having the opposite problem -- more students at a time when their state financing is being slashed. 
 In California and Florida, some public institutions have been forced to cap enrollment. And even in states like Pennsylvania, where the number of high school graduates is declining, applications to public universities are growing. 
 ''We have 47,971 applications as of now, compared to 45,760 at this time last year,'' said Anne Rohrbach, executive director of undergraduate admissions at Pennsylvania State University. ''We've been making offers since October, and we've already had 1,638 students say yes, compared to 1,096 at this time last year.'' 
 Generally, Ivy League universities with generous aid packages to low- and middle-income families have as many applicants as ever -- and even more applying for financial aid. 
 ''We had 27,462 applications last year, and we've been running almost exactly on last year's pace,'' said William Fitzsimmons, dean of admissions at Harvard College, which has eliminated early decision. ''More students are applying for financial aid. It's a significant increase, four full percentage points ahead of last year.'' 
 Yale received 5,556 applications this year, 14 percent more than last year, for its nonbinding single-choice early action program, said Jeffrey Brenzel, the dean of admissions, who added that regular applications were running higher, too. 
 Dartmouth has more applications than ever, early and regular, as do Duke University, the University of Denver and the University of Rochester. 
 Jonathan Burdick, the dean of admissions and financial aid at Rochester, said the school's reputation for generous merit aid helped draw applicants. 
 ''This is a time when families may be looking at options that are less costly,'' Mr. Burdick said. ''There are a lot of families who may make $180,000 to $200,000 but can't afford $50,000 a year and might apply to a Rochester, where merit aid this year can be as much as $14,000.'' 
 Many selective private colleges say fewer applications are no problem. 
 ''We're down about 16 percent now, and I think we'll be down 10 to 15 percent at the end, Jan. 1,'' said Monica Inzer, the dean of admission and financial aid at Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y. ''If our acceptance rate goes up a little, that's O.K.''
 Mark Hatch, vice president for enrollment management at Colorado College, said he expected to have about 5 percent fewer applicants this year and took a similar view. 
 ''We admitted 26 percent last year, and if it's 31 percent this year, we'll make more people happy,'' Mr. Hatch said. ''I think the economic uncertainty has families, even families of means, telling their children to round out their college lists with state universities. This year, families want two safety nets, one for the first hurdle, admission, and one for affordability. Anecdotally, I've noticed a lot of parents this year listing their occupation as unemployed.'' 
 At many colleges, financial aid requests are up significantly. At Connecticut College, for example, 42 percent of the accepted early-decision students applied for financial said, compared with 34 percent last year -- and 36 percent qualified for aid, compared with 24 percent last year. 
 This has been a particularly difficult year for small private colleges that accept a majority of their applicants.
 Stephen MacDonald, the president of Lebanon Valley College in Annville, Pa., where applications are down about 15 percent, is taking steps to lure more students, including adding lacrosse for men and women and hiring a prominent coach, which he thinks will attract 20 to 25 students. 
 ''We've also increased our scholarship award to children of alums, from $500, which is a nice gesture, to $2,500 a year, which is more than a gesture,'' Mr. MacDonald said.
 ''We could still end up down 3 percent, which could sting,'' he said. ''This is a time when schools like ours, private liberal arts colleges that don't have a big name, are in a potentially dangerous realm.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); DECISION SUPPORT SYSTEMS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); BUDGETS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INDEPENDENT COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008



827 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 740 words

 BODY:
ONE WAY TO LIMIT LAYOFFS As the recession deepens, more employers are cutting labor costs by introducing four-day workweeks, unpaid vacations and voluntary or enforced furloughs, along with wage freezes, pension cuts and flexible work schedules. 
 REFLECTION OF AMERICA As layoffs disrupt lives and workers search for scarce jobs, Columbia, S.C., has earned the unfortunate distinction of being an economic microcosm of America, with rising levels of unemployment, fear and desperation. [A1.]
 PROFITING FROM MADOFF Fairfield Greenwich Group says it was the biggest of Bernard L. Madoff's victims, but internal documents show a handful of Fairfield executives enjoyed immense profits for passing their investors' money to Mr. Madoff's company. [A1.] 
 ACCOUNTANTS UNDER SCRUTINY As more details unfurl in the Madoff fraud case, lawsuits await the big accounting firms, which oversaw many of the feeder funds that piped billions of dollars into what prosecutors describe as the largest Ponzi scheme ever perpetrated. [B1.] 
 WALKING AWAY FROM CHRYSLER? Chrysler, headed by Robert L. Nardelli, left, has not said how it plans to use the proceeds of federal loans, but its private equity parent company has indicated it might just give away its 80 percent stake to the United Automobile Workers and other creditors. [B1.] 
 SURVIVAL OF THE BATTERED Many hedge funds will disappear next year, and those that survive will have to prepare for some significant changes. Breaking Views. [B2.]
 GOOD TIME FOR RADIO TALKERS Amid all the pressures on the radio industry, the conservatives who dominate talk radio are back on offense, styling themselves with phrases like ''principled opposition'' and ''conservatism in exile.'' [B1.]
 A NEWSPAPER SHUNS THE WEB At a time when most big newspapers are embracing the Internet as their future salvation, a small weekly in New Jersey is shunning it, and thriving. The Media Equation: David Carr. [B1.]
 A WEB SITE TO SAVE A PAPER Staff members of the Rocky Mountain News in Denver have organized a Web site in an effort to save their newspaper, which has been publishing since before the Civil War. [B3.]
 LAWYERS ON THE MOVE More than 40 partners of Thacher Proffitt & Wood, a Wall Street law firm that has struggled to survive the financial crisis, are leaving to join a bigger firm, Sonnenschein, Nath & Rosenthal. [B2.]
 IRISH BANK BAILOUT In an effort to save its financial industry from collapse, Ireland will pump $7.7 billion into its three largest banks and take control of the Anglo Irish Bank. [B3.]
 JAPANESE EXPORTS PLUNGE Exports from Japan plunged the most on record in November as demand for cars and electronics collapsed. [B3.]
 NOT YOUR ORDINARY TALK SHOW When Montel Williams, left, promotes products to viewers of ''Living Well With Montel,'' he has good reason: how much he makes depends on how well he sells. Advertising. [B1.]
 AWARENESS OF DIGITAL TV LAGS When the switch is thrown to convert all TV transmissions in America to digital by the Feb. 17 deadline, millions of people may be left with no signal at all. [B5.]
 YOUTUBE LOSING WARNER MUSIC Unable to reach a licensing agreement with YouTube, Warner Music has demanded that videos of performers like Madonna, Metallica and Kid Rock be removed from the Web site. [B5.]
 REVENGE OF THE IPHONE GAME A start-up company called Tapulous has turned Tap Tap Revenge, a simple game for the iPhone, into an Internet-age mobile stage for musicians. [B6.]
 OBAMA'S TIME PORTRAIT If Time magazine's cover portrait of Barack Obama as ''Person of the Year'' looks a little familiar, it is because it was painted by the street artist who created the well-known hope image during the presidential campaign. [B4.] 
 BANKRUPTCY? WHAT'S THAT? A perusal of Web sites for companies that have sought bankruptcy protection shows that almost all of them prefer not to use the word bankruptcy. Link by Link: Noam Cohen. [B6.]
 A MAN AT THE HELM Although 85 percent of Scholastic Parent & Child readers are women, they will now be getting advice on parenting from a man: Nick Friedman was appointed the first male editor of the magazine last month. [B4.]
 NEWSPAPERS FOR WARMTH The Salvation Army is distributing 3,000 jackets insulated with shredded newspapers to homeless people in Canada this winter. [B4.]
 A FANCY CELLPHONE, AND MORE A $2,000 cellphone from Motorola, an ultralight laptop from Dell and privacy protection for the ill. Bits. [B6.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); WORK WEEK (90%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (88%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); PONZI SCHEMES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); LAWYERS (74%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (69%); CONSERVATISM (69%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); INTERNET & WWW (68%); BANK FAILURES (64%)

COMPANY: SNR DENTON (83%); THACHER PROFFITT & WOOD LLP (52%); IRISH BANK RESOLUTION CORP LTD (IBRC) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (90%); BOB NARDELLI (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (92%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%) JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008



828 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: Irena And Others Wait In Broadway Wings

BYLINE: Compiled by STEVEN McELROY

 BODY:
Producers of some shows shooting for 2009 Broadway openings are scrambling for investors in these shaky economic times, but a new entry on the spring theater calendar has raised more money than it needs, the show's publicist said on Sunday. The Directors Company production of ''Irena's Vow,'' starring Tovah Feldshuh(''Golda's Balcony'') will start previews March 10 at the Walter Kerr Theater. Dan Gordon's play, which ran Off Broadway in the fall, dramatizes the true story of Irena Gut Opdyke (Ms. Feldshuh), a Polish Catholic who worked as the head housekeeper for a Nazi officer and protected a dozen Jews, allowing them to hide in her boss's coal cellar. 
The other nine cast members from the Off Broadway production, and its director, Michael Parva, have signed on for the Broadway production. ... Speaking of Off Broadway, a new production of ''Flyovers,'' by Jeffrey Sweet, will begin Jan. 29 at the 78th Street Theater Lab. Mr. Sweet's play, about a film critic who returns to his small hometown in Ohio and finds culture clashes and resentment, will star Richard Kind and Michele Pawk. The director is Sandy Shinner. ... The Red Bull Theater production of ''Women Beware Women'' has been extended for two weeks, to Jan. 18, at the Theater at St. Clement's. Tickets and information: redbulltheater.com. ... ''The Judgment of Paris,'' an erotic dance-theater piece choreographed and directed by Austin McCormick, is coming back. The show was seen at 303 Bond in Brooklyn earlier this year and subsequently at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe. The return engagement starts on Jan. 8. (Information: CompanyXIV.com.) ... The Mint Theater will present D. H. Lawrence's 1914 look at a stifling marriage, ''The Widowing of Mr. Holroyd,'' beginning Feb. 4 (minttheater.org).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (92%); THEATER (91%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); DANCE (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (71%); FESTIVALS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (51%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008



829 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: Wall St. Firm's Lawyers Are Acquired, but the Firm Is Not

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
More than 40 partners of Thacher Proffitt & Wood, a Wall Street law firm that has struggled to survive the financial crisis, are leaving to join a bigger firm, Sonnenschein, Nath & Rosenthal, lawyers involved in the transaction said on Sunday. The move could lead to the end of Thacher, a firm that traces its history back 160 years. 
 Thacher's partners had been in talks to sell the firm. But Sonnenschein, based in Chicago, is not acquiring Thacher, choosing instead to take on the lawyers who formed the core of its real estate, finance and corporate practices.
 Thacher was founded in 1848, and its clients included many of the biggest banks and investment banks, including Citigroup and UBS. It has been one of the leading firms behind the creation of the sort of mortgage-backed securities that fueled the lending spree that has since backfired on the banks.
 ''We're still working on what happens to Thacher,'' said Robert E. McCarthy, the chairman of Thacher's planning committee, who is joining Sonnenschein. ''Its viability going forward was not likely.''
 Elliott I. Portnoy, the chairman of Sonnenschein, said his partners saw value in bringing on the Thacher lawyers -- and their clients -- because they believed that the financial markets would recover. Sonnenschein, with about 700 lawyers, is one of the 40 largest law firms.
 ''This is a group of lawyers who aren't just structured-finance lawyers, but lawyers who provide a large set of services to the world's largest financial institutions, banks and investment banks,'' Mr. Portnoy said. 
 For example, the Treasury Department recently awarded Thacher a $500,000 contract to advise on investments as part of the federal bailout, the Troubled Asset Relief Program. Mr. McCarthy said that the lawyers involved with that assignment would be joining Sonnenschein and expected to retain the Treasury as a client.
 Five partners in Thacher's real estate department, including the chairman of the department, Donald F. Simone, will be joining Sonnenschein, the lawyers said. Several litigation partners also are making the move, though the head of that group recently left the firm for another. A handful of partners will be left at Thacher after the moves.
 Thacher had offices on three floors of 2 World Trade Center until 9/11, Mr. McCarthy said. The firm moved temporarily to Midtown Manhattan but returned downtown, where it had its roots. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (92%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (91%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (88%); BAILOUTS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (74%); LITIGATION (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (50%)

COMPANY: SNR DENTON (96%); THACHER PROFFITT & WOOD LLP (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (96%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008



830 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Newspaper Shuns Web, And Thrives

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
With 2008 drawing to a brutal close on the media beat -- bankruptcies, daily newspapers that are no longer daily, magazines that are downsizing into brochures -- a little ray of light appeared in my e-mail inbox. It was from a newspaper owner, of all people. 
 Into the teeth of a historic recession, the newspaper had just published the biggest issue in its history. The product is double-digit profitable, and it has been growing at a clip of about 10 percent a year since it was founded in 1999, right about the time the Web was beginning to put its hands around print's neck.
 Finally, I thought, a story about a print organization that has found a way to tame the Web and come up with a digital business approach that could serve as a model. Except that TriCityNews of Monmouth County, N.J., is prospering precisely because it aggressively ignores the Web. Its Web site has a little boilerplate about the product and lists ad rates, but nothing more. (The address is trinews.com, for all the good it will do you.) 
 ''Why would I put anything on the Web?'' asked Dan Jacobson, the publisher and owner of the newspaper. ''I don't understand how putting content on the Web would do anything but help destroy our paper. Why should we give our readers any incentive whatsoever to not look at our content along with our advertisements, a large number of which are beautiful and cheap full-page ads?''
 Other publications much larger than TriCityNews have been wondering about pumping resources into a medium that does not seem to show a promise of returns any time soon. 
 Writing in The New York Observer, John Koblin pointed out that when Forbes, Portfolio and Fortune went through recent retrenchments, the Web staffs were hit the hardest. That may be just an old print reflex, but there is a rational argument to be made that the part of the apparatus that has a working business model, declining or not, should receive the resources. 
 At a time when Web entrepreneurs like Nick Denton of Gawker Media are predicting a 40 percent decline in Web display advertising, it's probably not a great time to be indexing into the Web either. 
 And there are signs that the free ride for consumers may be coming to an end. I started getting notices to renew my subscription to The Wall Street Journal and its Web site and waited, as I have in the past, for the deeply discounted offer. It never came. And according to company statements in October, paid subscriptions for The Journal's Web site were up more than 7 percent from a year ago. 
 A few caveats before we turn back the clock on publishing history. TriCityNews employs 3.5 people (the half-time employee handles circulation), has a print run of 10,000, and has a top line that can be written in six figures. Still, by setting rates low almost 10 years ago and never raising them or offering a Web option, Mr. Jacobson has built a reliable cadre of advertisers who call for ads, sign up for full pages, and pay in advance. There are no people working for sales commissions. 
 Editorially, the newspaper is boosterish -- ''we want people to think of Asbury Park as the center of the universe,'' he said -- with notes of skepticism typical of alternative weeklies. There are six columnists in addition to the full-time staff, and they write with a mix of attitude and reporting that Mr. Jacobson describes as a ''plog,'' a blog on paper.
 The low cost of entry on the advertising side means that almost anyone -- a bar, a retailer, a gym -- can afford a full-page ad, and the preponderance of them leads to an elegant-looking product.
 ''I don't allow our name to be used on any kind of content on the Web -- not bulletin boards or listings or anything,'' Mr. Jacobson said. ''I don't want anybody to connect The TriCityNews and the Internet. I don't want anything that detracts from the paper and the presence of those big, beautiful full-page ads.''
 Unlike other alt weeklies that borrowed heavily and consolidated newspapers in the hopes of creating a rolled-up Web product, Mr. Jacobson prefers to publish in a medium that pays for itself. 
 Creative Loafing, a chain of weeklies based in Tampa, Fla., bought up The Washington City Paper and The Chicago Reader and moved aggressively to invest editorial resources online. The chain filed for bankruptcy in September. 
 And Mr. Jacobson is more than happy to be known as the Fred Flintstone of the publishing world. ''There may come a time when the Web is all there is, and we will try to adapt,'' he said, ''and if we don't, well, hey, we had a great run. But right now, the Web makes no business sense for us.''
 Many people would tell, and in fact have told, Mr. Jacobson that he was bound to go the way of the eight-track tape, but from what he has seen, there are a lot of routes to obsolescence. 
 He said that as a consumer, he's not a print snob; in fact, he no longer buys the physical version of newspapers he once did. ''I just get on the Web site, I look at what I need to and I never look at the ads,'' he said. 
 There is no doubt that readers benefit in all sorts of ways from digitized journalism and searchable listings online, but that ease of use has not been accruing to the benefit of the publications that provide that information, or very often, their advertisers. 
 When it comes to brand advertising, print has a strong track record. Advertisers like the analog presentation in TriCityNews for the same reason they come back in droves to Vogue. 
 Mr. Jacobson, 47, is a former lawyer and politician -- he was a New Jersey assemblyman in the '90s -- who started The TriCityNews in January 1999 with $15,000 he had won in a personal injury lawsuit. The company is called Limited Risk Inc.
 ''Right after we started, the dot-com bust happened and we have been running scared ever since. We live off the land and run it very lean,'' he said. ''There is no debt, our office in downtown Asbury Park is very small, and we have never raised our rates, so people tend to stick with us regardless of what is happening in the economic cycle.''
 The three full-time employees met for their annual Christmas dinner the other night.
 ''All of us,'' Mr. Jacobson said, ''are pretty happy with our lifestyles -- I was able to quit practicing law quite a few years ago -- and are thankful that we seem to have secure jobs and what seems to be a good future in a pretty tough industry.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008



831 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; GENERATION FAITHFUL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1874 words

HEADLINE: In Booming Gulf, Some Arab Women Find Freedom in the Skies

BYLINE: By KATHERINE ZOEPF

 BODY:
ABU DHABI, United Arab Emirates -- Marwa Abdel Aziz Fathi giggled self-consciously as she looked down at the new wing-shaped brooch on the left breast pocket of her crisp gray uniform, then around the room at the dozens of other Etihad flight attendants all chatting and eating canapes around her.
It was graduation day at Etihad Training Academy, where the national airline of the United Arab Emirates holds a seven-week training course for new flight attendants. Downstairs are the cavernous classrooms where Ms. Fathi and other trainees rehearsed meal service plans in life-size mockups of planes and trained in the swimming pool, where they learned how to evacuate passengers in the event of an emergency landing over water.
Despite her obvious pride, Ms. Fathi, a 22-year-old from Egypt, was amazed to find herself here. 
''I never in my life thought I'd work abroad,'' said Ms. Fathi, who was a university student in Cairo when she began noticing newspaper advertisements recruiting young Egyptians to work at airlines based in the Persian Gulf. ''My family thought I was crazy. But then some families don't let you leave at all.''
A decade ago, unmarried Arab women like Ms. Fathi, working outside their home countries, were rare. But just as young men from poor Arab nations flocked to the oil-rich Persian Gulf states for jobs, more young women are doing so, sociologists say, though no official statistics are kept on how many.
Flight attendants have become the public face of the new mobility for some young Arab women, just as they were the face of new freedoms for women in the United States in the 1950s and 1960s. They have become a subject of social anxiety and fascination in much the same way.
The dormitory here where the Etihad flight attendants live after training looks much like the city's many 1970s-style office blocks, its windows iridescent like gasoline on a puddle. But there are three security guards on the ground floor, a logbook for sign-ins and strict rules. Anyone who tries to sneak a man back to one of the simply furnished two-bedroom suites that the women share may be dismissed, even deported.
In the midst of an Islamic revival across the Arab world that is largely being led by young people, gulf states like Abu Dhabi -- which offer freedoms and opportunities nearly unimaginable elsewhere in the Middle East -- have become an unlikely place of refuge for some young Arab women. And many say that the experience of living independently and working hard for high salaries has forever changed their ambitions and their beliefs about themselves, though it can also lead to a painful sense of alienation from their home countries and their families.
At almost any hour of the day or night, there are a dozen or more young women with identical rolling suitcases waiting in the lobby of their dormitory to be picked up for work on Etihad flights. Though several are still drowsily applying makeup -- and the more steady-handed have perfected a back-of-the-bus toilette that takes exactly the length of their usual ride to Abu Dhabi International Airport -- they are uniformly well ironed and blow-dried. Those with longer hair wear black hair-ties wrapped around meticulously hair-netted ponytails. They wear jaunty little caps with attached gauzy scarves that hint at hijab, the head coverings worn by many Muslim women. Like college students during exams, all of them gripe good-naturedly about how little they have slept.
There are exclamations of congratulation and commiseration as the women learn friends' assignments. Most coveted are long-haul routes to places like Toronto and Sydney, Australia, where layovers may last many days, hotels are comfortable and per diem allowances from the airline to cover food and incidentals are generous. Short-haul flights to places like Khartoum, Sudan, are dreaded: more than four hours of work, followed by refueling, a new load of passengers, an exhausting late-night return flight to Abu Dhabi and the shuttle bus back to the dormitory tower with its vigilant guards.
Upstairs, scrubbed of their thick, professional makeup, most of the women look a decade younger. They seem to subsist on snack food: toast made, Arabic-style, by waving flaps of pita over an open flame; slivers of cheap, oversalted Bulgarian cheese; the Lebanese date-filled cookies called ajweh; pillowy rolls from a local Cinnabon outlet that one young Syrian flight attendant proclaimed herself addicted to (an expression she used with self-conscious delight, a badge of newfound worldliness).
They watch bootlegged DVDs -- ''Desperate Housewives,'' ''Sex and the City'' -- bought on layovers in Bangladesh and Indonesia. They drift along the tiled floors between their rooms in velour sweatpants and fuzzy slippers, and they keep their voices low: someone is always trying to catch a wink of sleep before her flight.
A Lonely Existence
It is a hushed, lonely and fluorescent-lighted existence, and it is leavened mostly by nights out dancing. Despite the increasing numbers of women moving to the gulf countries, the labor migration patterns of the last 20 years have left the Emirates with a male-female ratio that is more skewed than anywhere else in the world; in the 15-to-64 age group, there are more than 2.7 men for every woman.
Etihad flight attendants are such popular additions to Abu Dhabi's modest hotel bar scene that their presence is encouraged by frequent ''Ladies' Nights'' and cabin-crew-only drink discounts. It is almost impossible for an unveiled woman in her 20s to go to a mall or grocery store in Abu Dhabi without being asked regularly, by grinning strangers, if she is a stewardess.
One evening last fall, an Egyptian flight attendant for Etihad with dyed blond hair and five-inch platform heels led a friend -- a 23-year-old Tunisian woman wearing a sparkly white belt who said that she had come to the Emirates hoping to find work as a seamstress -- up to the entrance of the Sax nightclub at the Royal Meridien Hotel.
Just inside, in the bar area, several young Emirates men in white dishdashas were dancing jerkily to deafening club music.
Clutching her friend by the elbow, the Egyptian woman indicated one of the bouncers. ''Isn't he just so yummy?'' she shrieked. The bouncer, who had plainly heard, ignored her, and the women filed past. Despite appearances, explained the Egyptian flight attendant -- who asked not to be named because she was not authorized by Etihad to speak to the news media -- sex and dating are very fraught matters for most of the young Arab women who come to work in the Emirates.
Some young women cope with their new lives away from home by becoming almost nunlike, keeping to themselves and remaining very observant Muslims, she said, while others quickly find themselves in the arms of unsuitable men. ''With the Arabic girls who come to work here, you get two types,'' the Egyptian woman said. ''They're either very closed up and scared and they don't do anything, or else they're not really thinking about flying -- they're just here to get their freedom. They're really naughty and crazy.''
Treated Like a Heroine
Rania Abou Youssef, 26, a flight attendant for the Dubai-based airline, Emirates, said that when she went home to Alexandria, Egypt, her female cousins treated her like a heroine. ''I've been doing this for four years,'' she said, ''and still they're always asking, 'Where did you go and what was it like and where are the photographs?' ''
Many of the young Arab women working in the Persian Gulf take delight in their status as pioneers, role models for their friends and younger female relatives. Young women brought up in a culture that highly values community, they have learned to see themselves as individuals.
For many families, allowing a daughter to work, much less to travel overseas unaccompanied, may call her virtue into question and threaten her marriage prospects. Yet this culture is changing, said Musa Shteiwi, a sociologist at Jordan University in Amman. ''We're noticing more and more single women going to the gulf these days,'' he said. ''It's still not exactly common, but over the last four or five years it's become quite an observable phenomenon.''
Unemployment levels across the Arab world remain high. As the networks of Arab expatriates in the gulf countries become stronger and as cellphones and expanding Internet access make overseas communication more affordable, some families have grown more comfortable with the idea of allowing daughters to work here. Some gulf-based employers now say they tailor recruitment procedures for young women with Arab family values in mind. They may hire groups of women from a particular town or region, for example, so the women can support one another once in the gulf. ''A lot of girls do this now because this has a reputation for being very safe,'' said Enas Hassan, an Iraqi flight attendant for Emirates. ''The families have a sense of security. They know that if their girls start flying they won't be thrown into the wide world without protection.''
A Feeling of Displacement
Yet not everyone can make peace with life in the United Arab Emirates, the young flight attendants say. Even the landscape -- block after sterile block of hotels and office buildings with small shops and takeout restaurants on their lower floors -- can contribute to a feeling of displacement. Nearly all year long, for most of the day, the sunlight is bright white, so harsh that it obliterates all contrast. Despite vigilant watering, even the palm trees on roadsides look grayish and embattled.
Some of the young women tell stories of fellow flight attendants who have simply slipped onto planes to their home countries and run away, without giving notice to the airline.
The most successful Arab flight attendants, they say, are often those whose circumstances have already placed them somehow at the margins of their home societies: young immigrant women who are supporting their families after the death of a male breadwinner, for example, and a handful of young widows and divorced women who are eventually permitted to work overseas after their prospects of remarriage have dimmed.
Far more than other jobs they might find in the gulf, flying makes it difficult for Muslim women to fulfill religious duties like praying five times a day and fasting during Ramadan, the Egyptian attendant noted. She said she hoped to wear the hijab one day, ''just not yet.'' A sense of disconnection from their religion can add to feelings of alienation from conservative Muslim communities back home. Young women whose work in the gulf supports an extended family often find, to their surprise and chagrin, that work has made them unsuitable for life within that family.
''A very good Syrian friend of mine decided to resign from the airline and go back home,'' the Egyptian flight attendant said. ''But she can't tolerate living in a family house anymore. Her parents love her brother and put him first, and she's never allowed out alone, even if it's just to go and have a coffee.''
''It becomes very difficult to go home again,'' she said.
Generation Faithful: This is the ninth in a series of articles examining the lives of the young across the Muslim world at a time of religious revival.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Flight attendants at a graduation ceremony last year in Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAMARA ABDUL HADI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Rania Abou Youssef, 26, an Egyptian national and a flight attendant for the Dubai-based airline, Emirates, gets ready for work at her home in Dubai.
 Two just-graduated flight attendants, both Moroccans, at the Etihad Training Academy in Abu Dhabi. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TAMARA ABDUL HADI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); WOMEN (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); FAMILY (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (77%); FOREIGN LABOR (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); SOCIOLOGY (64%); RELIGION (60%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); CAIRO, EGYPT (73%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (91%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (99%); EGYPT (93%); GULF STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



832 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: More Companies Cut Labor Costs Without Layoffs

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL; David Leonhardt contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Even as layoffs are reaching historic levels, some employers have found an alternative to slashing their work force. They're nipping and tucking it instead.
 A growing number of employers, hoping to avoid or limit layoffs, are introducing four-day workweeks, unpaid vacations and voluntary or enforced furloughs, along with wage freezes, pension cuts and flexible work schedules. These employers are still cutting labor costs, but hanging onto the labor.
 And in some cases, workers are even buying in. Witness the unusual suggestion made in early December by the chairman of the faculty senate at Brandeis University, who proposed that the school's 300 professors and instructors give up 1 percent of their pay.
 ''What we are doing is a symbolic gesture that has real consequences -- it can save a few jobs,'' said William Flesch, the senate chairman and an English professor. 
 He says more than 30 percent have volunteered for the pay cut, which could save at least $100,000 and prevent layoffs for at least several employees. ''It's not painless, but it is relatively painless and it could help some people,'' he said. 
 Some of these cooperative cost-cutting tactics are not entirely unique to this downturn. But the reasons behind the steps -- and the rationale for the sharp growth in their popularity in just the last month -- reflect the peculiarities of this recession, its sudden deepening and the changing dynamics of the global economy.
 Companies taking nips and tucks to their work force say this economy plunged so quickly in October that they do not want to prune too much should it just as suddenly roar back. They also say they have been so careful about hiring and spending in recent years -- particularly in the last 12 months when nearly everyone sensed the country was in a recession -- that highly productive workers, not slackers, remain on the payroll.
 At some companies, employees are supporting the indirect wage cuts -- at least for now. The downturn hit so hard, with its toll felt so widely through hits on pensions and 401(k) retirement plans and with the future so murky, that employers and even some employees say it is better to accept minor cuts than risk more draconian steps.
 The rolls of companies nipping at labor costs with measures less drastic than wholesale layoffs include Dell (extended unpaid holiday), Cisco (four-day year-end shutdown), Motorola (salary cuts), Nevada casinos (four-day workweek), Honda (voluntary unpaid vacation time) and The Seattle Times (plans to save $1 million with a week of unpaid furlough for 500 workers). There are also many midsize and small companies trying such tactics.
 To be sure, these efforts are far less widespread than layoffs, and outright pay cuts still appear to be rare. Over all, the average hourly pay of rank-and-file workers -- who make up about four-fifths of the work force -- rose 3.7 percent from November 2007 to last month, according to the latest Labor Department data.
 Watson Wyatt, a consulting firm that tracks compensation trends, published survey data last week that found that 23 percent of companies planned layoffs in the next year, down from 26 percent that said they planned to do so in October. Companies say they are considering other cost cuts, like mandatory holiday shutdowns, salary freezes or cuts, four-day workweeks and reductions of contributions to retirement and health care plans. 
 Companies seem particularly determined to find alternatives to layoffs in this recession, said Jennifer Chatman, a professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley. ''Organizations are trying to cut costs in the name of avoiding layoffs,'' she said. ''It's not just that organizations are saying 'we're cutting costs,' they're saying: 'we're doing this to keep from losing people.' ''
 She said the tactic builds long-term loyalty among workers who are not laid off and spares the company having to compete again to hire and train anew.
 That was part of the thinking at Global Tungsten & Powders, a metal plant in Towanda, Pa., whose business has dropped 25 percent from a year ago. The company has already cut overtime and travel, as well as purchases of office supplies and equipment. It is now allowing and indeed encouraging its 1,000 workers to take unpaid furloughs to stave off more drastic cuts.
 ''We have a very skilled and competent work force and the last thing we want to do is lose them when we're assuming this economy is going to come back,'' said Craig Reider, the company's director of human resources. Workers, he said, are buying in to the concept.
 ''In this holiday season, many employees want to support our efforts here to minimize costs,'' he said.
 In San Francisco, a Web design firm called Hot Studio laid off a handful of workers when the dot-com bubble burst in 2000. But the company's owner, Maria Guidice, said the tactic was painful, and she did not want to repeat it. This time, her first step is to take away bonuses -- for the first time in the company's 12-year history -- and instead give people paid time off over the holidays. 
 ''In 2000, it was like 'cut the heads,' '' she said of the ethos of the era. This time, she says, it feels different. ''Our No. 1 priority is to keep people employed and to do that we're going to bank the money and keep it for when we need it,'' she said, adding, ''I know some people are super bummed, but they understand we're trying to keep the work force intact.''
 Several employees at Hot Studio said they did not mind the policy, particularly as they have heard of layoffs elsewhere in the economy. ''People feel they'd much rather have a job in six months than get a bonus right now,'' said Jon Littell, a Web designer.
 The magnanimous feeling will probably pass, said Truman Bewley, an economics professor at Yale University who has studied what happens to wages during a recession. If the sacrifices look as though they are going to continue for many months, he said, some workers will grow frustrated, want their full compensation back and may well prefer a layoff that creates a new permanence. 
 ''These are feel-good, temporary measures,'' he said.
 But John Challenger, chief executive of Challenger, Gray & Christmas, a company that tracks layoffs, said employers were being driven now not by compassion but by hard calculations based on data they have never had before. More than ever, he said, companies have used technology to track employee performance and productivity, and in many cases they know that the workers they would cut are productive ones.
 ''People are measured and 'metricked' to a much greater degree,'' he said. ''So companies know that when they're cutting an already taut organization, they're leaving big gaps in the work force.''
 At the Pretech Corporation, a concrete manufacturer in Kansas City, Kan., that has not had a layoff in 15 years, part of the rationale is pride. To keep the perfect track record, the company has cut overtime, traded a $5,000 holiday party for an employee-only barbecue lunch, and trimmed its pipe-making operation to four days from five, which allows it to save substantially on heating and electrical costs.
 Business is down sharply in some of the company's divisions, but Pretech is also transforming to take on more work making concrete for infrastructure jobs, like the kind the government might support through stimulus efforts, the company's co-owner, Bob Bundschuh, said. He said employees seemed to embrace the changes, knowing that a small sacrifice in overtime pay couldpreserve their job and the health insurance benefits that go with it.
 ''We're optimistic about the future,'' he said, adding that he thought things could turn around in six months. If so, ''We want our guys to stay around because they're good guys and they work hard.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pretech, a concrete company in Kansas City, Kan., has not had a layoff in 15 years. To avoid layoffs in this downturn, it is cutting overtime and other labor costs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED ZURGA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); WORK WEEK (89%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (89%); RECESSION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); US 401K PLANS (78%); FLEXTIME (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); CASINOS (50%)

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (51%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (74%); MISSOURI, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008



833 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; 4A; CAMPAIGN SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: A New York Job Behind Every Light and Camera

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Editors' Note: With this issue, In Advertising goes on its annual year-end hiatus, returning on Jan. 12, 2009. Best wishes for a wonderful new year.
 A campaign is urging New Yorkers to think twice before they throw shoes at the members of the film and television production crews who may be making noise, blocking the streets, shining bright lights or taking up the choice parking spaces in their neighborhoods.
 The campaign, now under way, is being sponsored by the Mayor's Office of Film, Theater and Broadcasting, which oversees the production process in the five boroughs of New York City. The campaign, appearing as public service announcements, is intended for television, print, bus posters, video screens in the backs of taxis, the Web sites of local newspapers and a channel on YouTube .
 Information about the campaign can also be found on the Web site of the mayor's film office . 
 The campaign seeks to thank New Yorkers for playing host -- -- however reluctantly it may sometimes be -- to the making of TV shows, commercials and movies in their neighborhoods. It also seeks to let them know how important such production is to the local economy.
 Film and TV production within the city is reaching record levels, thanks partly to recent tax incentives. And according to estimates from the mayor's film office, it pumps $5 billion into the local economy each year.
 By one count, there are 17 prime-time series now based in New York City, not to mention all the game shows, talk shows, soap operas and newscasts.
 The mayor's film office also estimates that more than 100,000 New Yorkers work in the film and television fields -- jobs that grow increasingly meaningful with the layoffs that are sweeping other mainstay industries like finance, retailing and media.
 Those old enough to remember when Con Edison excavation sites bore signs that read ''Dig we must for a better New York'' can think of the campaign as proclaiming, ''Shoot we must for a better New York.''
 The actual theme of the campaign is more straightforward: ''Reel jobs. Reel proud. Real New Yorkers.''
 The fact that the people working on films, TV shows and commercials are local residents rather than usurping invaders from Hollywood is a central point of the campaign, which was created internally by the mayor's film office and produced by a local production firm called the Artists Company. 
 To underscore that point, the ads feature actual workers, who are identified by their first names, their occupations and the boroughs in which they live. There are eight men and women whose jobs include make-up artist, location manager, lighting technician and assistant director.
 In addition to those who work in the industry, ''roughly 4,000 ancillary businesses benefit'' from local production, says Katherine Oliver, commissioner of the mayor's film office, as the employees ''eat in restaurants, buy props, go to a florist, go to Kinko's to copy scripts.''
 Besides, movie and TV productions shot locally represent ''a wonderful way to market and promote New York City,'' she adds, citing all the people who ''know New York through a film or television show'' like a Woody Allen movie or ''Sex and the City.''
 Previous campaigns from the mayor's film office have used stars to deliver the message about the benefits of local production. This time, Ms. Oliver says, the idea is to concentrate on ''the behind-the-scenes people who are the unsung heroes of a production'' because they are often the ones ''who are interfacing with the residents'' in the neighborhoods where the shoots takes place.
 For instance, in one commercial for TV, taxi screens and the YouTube channel, a location assistant named Hugo, who lives in Queens, describes how he got his job through a training program sponsored by the mayor's film office.
 ''There's a big misconception as to whether or not films crews are brought in from L.A.,'' Hugo says in the spot. ''People that work in this industry here in New York City are from New York.''
 Hugo signs off with a sentence that is also spoken by the other workers at the end of their commercials: ''I love working in this industry and I love living in New York City.''
 In a second spot, Iris, a set lighting technician from Brooklyn, waxes rhapsodic about New York as a location.
 ''New York can be anything,'' Iris says. ''It could be the backdrop to a movie and it can fade and let you do your thing, or it can be the central character.''
 In a third commercial, another Brooklynite, Stephen, who is a shop craftsman, building scenery, discusses how the industry employs not only him but also his wife, son and daughter.
 A fourth commercial presents another Brooklyn resident, Pat, who is a location manager. ''I am a regular person,'' she says, ''just like every other New Yorker.''
 ''We do want to leave the smallest possible impact on a neighborhood,'' Pat goes on to say, adding: ''The key for us is to put ourselves forward as the people that the community can reach out to. I hope that no one is ever afraid to approach any of us about filming.''
 Sally Antonacchio, vice president at the Artists Company, acknowledges that ''sometimes it's annoying when you lose your parking space'' to the production of a movie or TV show, ''but please understand it's a thriving business'' that contributes much to the city.
 ''It's wonderful to have New York production again,'' says Ms. Antonacchio, a Bronx resident, explaining how her husband, a set construction foreman for films, is now ''back at home'' after having to spend ''many years out of town'' when movies meant to take place in the city were instead shot in cheaper locations like Toronto.
 Despite the additional crews shooting in the five boroughs, ''there's this perception that when a production is filming on the streets, it's Los Angeles, it's Hollywood,'' Ms. Antonacchio says, but ''the crew is not Hollywood; it's regular people, real people, going to work every day.''
 The goal, says the director of the commercials, Otis Mass, is ''to humanize the people in the industry'' who work locally, ''and demystify a little what they do'' to help the people outside the industry ''connect with them.''
 To that end, says Mr. Mass, who lives on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, ''I did additional casting myself'' for the commercials, to augment workers chosen by the mayor's film office to appear in the campaign.
 ''I made it a point to ask everyone in interviews: 'Are you a glamorous person? Do you live the Hollywood lifestyle?' '' he adds. ''These are not glamorous people; they live next door to you, they ride in the subway next to you.''
 The result, Mr. Mass says, is ''a nice group of people who represent the diversity of the production community.''
 Like many a movie filmed on the streets of New York, the campaign has a lengthy list of credits.
 In addition to the mayor's film office and the Artists Company, among those credited for the campaign are Chinagraph, a commercial editing company; two post-production firms, Nice Shoes and Goldcrest Post New York; NYC & Company, the marketing and tourism branch of the city government; and the Association of Independent Commercial Producers, whose president and chief executive, Matt Miller, helped connect the mayor's film office and Ms. Antonacchio.
 The music heard is the spots is ''Wellspring,'' the title track from an album by a songwriter named Ashton Allen, who donated it along with the co-producer, Devin Moore.
 The unions involved in the campaign include the Directors Guild of America, to which Mr. Mass belongs, and the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees. A division of Titan Worldwide, the transit advertising company, is donating the space for the bus posters.
 If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); FILM (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); WEB SITES (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); LAYOFFS (62%); TAX INCENTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (53%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008



834 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 996 words

PERSON: William Kaufmann 

HEADLINE: William Kaufmann, Nuclear Strategist Who Helped Reshape Policy, Dies at 90

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
William W. Kaufmann, a close adviser to seven defense secretaries and a major proponent of a shift away from the early cold war strategy of mass nuclear retaliation against the Soviet Union, died Dec. 14 in Woburn, Mass. He was 90 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. 
 The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said his wife and only immediate survivor, the former Julia Alexander. 
 Mr. Kaufmann was a special assistant to every secretary of defense in the Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon, Ford and Carter administrations, responsible for preparing the annual report to Congress on the Defense Department's overall military strategy and budget.
 ''He was one of those shadowy people from the cold war era who had a great deal of influence behind the scenes and no appetite for the limelight,'' said Fred M. Kaplan, the national defense columnist for Slate magazine and the author of ''The Wizards of Armageddon'' (Simon & Schuster, 1983), about the group of experts, including Mr. Kaufmann, who laid the groundwork for the nation's nuclear strategy.
 In the mid-1950s, while a political science professor at Princeton, Mr. Kaufmann wrote ''Limited War,'' an influential paper that called for rebuilding conventional armies in Western Europe rather than relying on nuclear weapons. Soon after, he was working for the RAND Corporation, the military research institution.
 In the 1950s, under Gen. Curtis E. LeMay, the Strategic Air Command held powerful sway over nuclear war plans. Its policy was that if the Soviet Union invaded Western Europe, even if it did not employ a nuclear weapon, the United States should fire nuclear weapons at every major military and civilian target in the Soviet Union, other Warsaw Pact nations and Communist China. By some estimates, 285 million people would be killed in such a mass attack.
 ''Kaufmann comes into this world and concludes that this is just insane, not just because of moral considerations but also strategic,'' Mr. Kaplan said. ''Such an attack wasn't capable of destroying every Soviet nuclear weapon, so millions of Americans and Western Europeans would also be killed.''
 Along with other leading nuclear strategists, Mr. Kaufmann developed the concept of counterforce. Instead of an all-out nuclear attack if the Soviets invaded Western Europe, counterforce called for precision bombing of military targets coupled with warnings that cities would become the next targets of missiles launched from submarines and underground missile silos if the Soviet forces did not retreat. To Mr. Kaufmann, it would be a way of perhaps controlling nuclear war instead of igniting the cataclysm. 
 ''There is some difficulty in imagining international politics operating in all their traditional sense or through their historical institutions without the lubricant of military power,'' Mr. Kaufmann wrote in his 1956 book, ''Military Policy and National Security'' (Princeton University). ''But how can it or will it function now that the development of mutual annihilation may be making the use of force no longer feasible for the settlement of outstanding issues?''
 In 1961, after President John F. Kennedy took office, Mr. Kaufmann, along with other members of the so-called whiz kids from RAND, was hired by Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara. Soon after, Mr. McNamara was incorporating aspects of counterforce into the nation's nuclear strategy.
 Mr. Kaufmann also served under James R. Schlesinger, who was defense secretary in the Nixon and Ford administrations. In an interview Tuesday, Mr. Schlesinger offered a nuanced view of the adoption of counterforce.
 ''In that LeMay period, we did not have overhead reconnaissance, did not know what the Soviet strategic capabilities were,'' he said. ''After Kennedy campaigned for closing the missile gap and after the first satellites flew, it turned out that the Soviets had very little in the way of nuclear armaments. Counterforce became a possibility because of the weakness of the Soviet capability.''
 Mr. Kaplan said Mr. Kaufmann was ''by no stretch a pacifist or an antinuclear activist,'' adding, ''he had ambivalence about the whole nuclear war enterprise but did still think you needed to retain these options for smaller scale nuclear attacks.''
 William Weed Kaufmann was born in Manhattan on Nov. 10, 1918, one of six children of Charles and Antoinette Kaufmann. His father was a businessman. He earned a bachelor's degree in 1939, a master's in 1947 and a doctorate in 1948, all in international studies and at Yale. During World War II, he served in the Army Air Forces.
 Mr. Kaufman taught at Yale and then Princeton before joining RAND in 1956. In 1961, the same year he went to work at the Defense Department, he was appointed to the political science faculty at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. For years, he split his time between Washington and Cambridge. 
 Although out of public service after 1981, Mr. Kaufmann remained a potent voice in defense policy discourse. As President Ronald Reagan successfully pushed for a nuclear buildup to face down the Soviets, Mr. Kaufmann became concerned that counterforce was being taken to an extreme, what the Pentagon called ''protracted nuclear war,'' with controlled launchings over weeks or even months. 
 ''He suddenly became rather outspokenly critical of these ideas of limited nuclear war,'' Mr. Kaplan said. ''They had taken a direction he now regretted.''
 In 1991, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, Mr. Kaufmann concluded that the United States could reduce military spending by more than a third and still deal with any emergency in the post-cold war era. His thinking was laid out in a report written with John D. Steinbruner for the Brookings Institution, the public policy research organization. 
 They wrote: ''The future ability of the United States to maintain the conditions of its security will depend as much on its moral authority, diplomatic skills and economic assets as on its military capabilities.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William W. Kaufmann served seven defense secretaries. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); COLD WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ARMIES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); ARMED FORCES (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (73%); WRITERS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (57%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (67%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (67%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); CHINA (79%)

CATEGORY: Military

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008



835 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: At the Front of a Potential Senate Fight

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
To read President-elect Barack Obama's approval ratings and the praise for his cabinet picks, it is easy to forget that he is walking into a fight. Just ask Lamar Alexander.
 Mr. Alexander, the senior senator from Tennessee and chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, offers the usual invocations about seeking agreement with his former colleague who is moving into the White House. Indeed, he likens Mr. Obama's moment to his own election 30 years ago as a reform-minded governor who received cooperation from a Democratic-controlled Legislature in Nashville. 
 Yet the Washington of today no more resembles Nashville than it resembled Austin, Tex., where Gov. George W. Bush served as a self-styled ''uniter, not a divider.'' And Mr. Alexander's interpretation of the Election Day verdict hardly matches that of whom he calls the ''hyper-partisan'' Democrats on Capitol Hill. 
 ''The change that people voted for was a change in management,'' he said in an interview. ''If they think the change the country elected them to provide was a lurch to the left, they're in for a big surprise.''
 What is a lurch to the left? Big spending, among other things. As Obama advisers prepare an economic stimulus program approaching $1 trillion for swift Congressional action, Mr. Alexander sounded a note of caution. ''I don't even want to think about a number that big,'' he said. ''We're going to have to have a long discussion about what kind of stimulus package.''
 Re-elected by a two-to-one ratio on the ballot with Mr. Obama, Mr. Alexander sits squarely in the middle of his party. As a young, pro-civil-rights protege of Howard H. Baker Jr., as a New South governor who championed education reform and as a serious presidential candidate in 1996, Mr. Alexander has long had a moderate reputation. 
 But Mr. Alexander now speaks for a conservative, Southern-accented caucus that will bring at least 41 members to Senate debates next year. That is filibuster-strength; even if Republicans lose liberal outliers like Senators Susan Collins of Maine and Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania in important votes, they could gain support from conservative Democrats like Senator Ben Nelson of Nebraska.
 Having backed the $700 billion bailout of the financial industry in September, Mr. Alexander has demonstrated his willingness to use the federal checkbook to avert economic disaster. But he disdains some priorities that Mr. Obama and his party consider crucial.
 ''I'm skeptical about subsidies for energy,'' said Mr. Alexander, 68, a member of the Appropriations Committee. Instead of financing ''giant wind turbines'' -- a power source he has long criticized -- ''I'd much rather spend that money on energy research.''
 Business groups, which helped Republicans block President Bill Clinton's plan for universal health care coverage in 1994, now express greater willingness to work with the Obama administration on that issue to control their costs. Yet for Democrats seeking rapid movement on Mr. Obama's health proposals, Mr. Alexander's message is ''slow down.''
 ''Revamping one-sixth of the economy is not something that can be done in the next three months,'' he said. If Mr. Obama hews to the center, he added, Republicans will engage him in ''big discussions but not big fights.'' 
 ''If he comes up with a far-left agenda,'' he went on, ''we'll have to do everything we can to stop him.''
 It is symbolically fitting that the Republican conference chairman is recovering from back surgery; his party is trying to come back from two straight electoral thrashings. Mr. Alexander sometimes sounds as critical of Republican failures as he is of liberal excess.
 ''We've had an almost complete failure of imagination,'' he said, with too many Republicans mired in the past. ''We're always talking about Ronald Reagan. But if he was here, he wouldn't be talking about the cold war. We've got to turn our principles into solutions that convince people we're right.''
 One triumph Mr. Alexander praises -- a successful fight by his home-state colleague, Senator Bob Corker, to block legislation bailing out the auto industry, which was drafted by the Bush administration and Democratic Congressional leaders -- points to a looming clash. President Bush's subsequent decision to lend automakers $17.4 billion leaves it to Mr. Obama to determine next spring whether the companies need more help and, if they do, whether they should be allowed to go bankrupt.
 ''The country deserves to have a debate over whether we should be bailing out particular industries,'' Mr. Alexander said. As governor, he helped change the face of domestic auto manufacturing, challenging the primacy of Detroit's Big Three by luring Nissan to Tennessee.
 In Mr. Alexander's view, Mr. Obama's 53 percent popular-vote majority and Electoral College rout of Senator John McCain did not alter America's political core. ''This is still,'' he said, ''a center-right country.''
 Temperate cabinet choices notwithstanding, Mr. Obama has given no sign that he plans a center-right presidency. Thus partisan comity in Washington may be brief.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SENATOR LAMAR ALEXANDER 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); FILIBUSTER (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); BAILOUTS (75%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); EDUCATION REFORM (70%); CREDIT CRISIS (65%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%)

PERSON: LAMAR ALEXANDER (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BEN NELSON (58%); ARLEN SPECTER (57%); SUSAN COLLINS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008



836 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1559 words

HEADLINE: For Conservative Radio, It's a New Dawn, Too

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
Amid all the pressures on the radio industry, news-talk stations see an opportunity -- and his name is Barack Obama.
 After eight years of playing defense for President Bush, the conservatives who dominate talk radio are back on offense. 
 Hours after Mr. Obama's election, the country's most popular radio host, Rush Limbaugh, was talking about the ''rebirth of principled opposition.'' 
 Sean Hannity, the second highest-rated host, quickly cast his afternoon show as the home of ''conservatism in exile.'' 
 It is a lively time to be behind the microphone. One television talker, Joe Scarborough, is starting a radio show. Another, Bill O'Reilly, is ending his. 
 Several of the supporting actors in this year's Republican primary are showing interest in the medium, too. Fred Thompson, the ''Law & Order'' star turned presidential candidate, will begin hosting a two-hour show in March, as the syndicator Westwood One is expected to announce this week. Mr. Thompson's show would take the place of Mr. O'Reilly's. 
 Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York City and a Republican presidential candidate, had been in negotiations with Westwood One for Mr. O'Reilly's time slot, according to two people with knowledge of the talks who spoke on the condition of anonymity because a deal was not struck.
 Mike Huckabee, the former Republican presidential candidate who now has a weekend program on the Fox News Channel, is trying radio as well, hosting short segments for ABC Radio beginning Jan. 5. While there are plenty of topics to talk about -- and plenty of hosts willing to do the talking -- nagging questions about the business remain. A sharp advertising downturn is limiting revenue for stations. And some hosts are worrying about the relevance of talk radio in a digital age.
 But radio, at least for now, still acts as a national megaphone for influential voices. This year, news talk ranked as the most popular radio format in the United States, surpassing country music for the first time ever. Forty stations have added news talk in the last year, for a total of 2,064 that use the format, up from about 1,500 a decade ago, according to the trade publication M Street.
 That means 2,064 stations need 24 hours of programming every day. Stations with tight budgets increasingly rely on programs from Premiere Radio Networks, ABC Radio Networks and other syndication companies. 
 Five of the most popular syndicated names in news-talk radio -- Mr. Limbaugh, Mr. Hannity, Glenn Beck, Michael Savage and Laura Ingraham -- signed new contracts in the last 12 months, all but guaranteeing that they will be rallying listeners for the duration of Mr. Obama's four-year term. Mr. Limbaugh's landmark contract, announced in July, promised a total of $400 million through 2016. 
 With a Democrat in the White House, ''the conservative hosts will have more fun. There's no doubt about that,'' said Gary Schonfeld, the president of network programming for Westwood One.
 But will listeners stay tuned? Talk radio usually ''becomes a little less popular the year after an election,'' said Maja Mijatovic, the vice president and director of national radio for the media buying agency Horizon Media. 
 However, next year promises to be a unique one, with grim forecasts about the economy and renewed interest in the presidency. Advertisers and syndicators are expecting a busy year because of the incoming administration. ''I think people are going to tune in more than ever,'' Ms. Mijatovic said.
 Premiere Radio, a subsidiary of Clear Channel Communications, is projecting a consistent audience from 2008 to 2009 as it signs on advertisers. ''There's more to talk about than there has been in a hundred years,'' Charlie Rahilly, the president of Premiere, said. ''There is something almost historical in nature in the news every single day.'' 
 Mr. Limbaugh, who is syndicated by Premiere, continues to command a much larger audience than any other radio host. According to Arbitron's spring 2008 ratings report, he reached 3.58 million listeners during an average quarter-hour, while the No. 2 host, Mr. Hannity, averaged 1.65 million. 
 A middle tier of radio hosts helps fill the schedules of AM and FM stations. ''Because you don't have a commodity like music to rely upon, it is all up to the host,'' said Carl Anderson, the senior vice president for programming and distribution at ABC Radio Networks. ''They are on stage by themselves.''
 The talk-radio formula that Mr. Limbaugh pioneered two decades ago remains evident on the air today. Syndicators look for hosts who are entertaining, have a point of view and, as Mr. Anderson put it, show an ability to ''connect with an audience.''
 Ask different syndicators and you will hear different claims about the ''fastest-growing hosts'' on talk radio. Westwood One cites its ''Dennis Miller Show,'' which is syndicated in 200 markets and has a comedic bent. ABC Radio cites the rapid rise of its two-year-old ''Mark Levin Show,'' which now counts 175 affiliates. The shows are a less expensive alternative to the Limbaughs and Hannitys of the industry.
 With more stations converting to news-talk formats -- perhaps with the hope that live talk cannot be displaced by an iPod the way music can be -- the middle tier is where most of the movement is. The conservative commentator Monica Crowley is entering weekday syndication through the Talk Radio Network. The CNN anchor Lou Dobbs is signing new affiliates for a three-hour afternoon show. And Mr. Scarborough, the host of MSNBC's ''Morning Joe,'' is hosting a radio version on WABC in New York. ABC Radio plans to syndicate it next year, beginning in Los Angeles at KABC.
 Mr. Scarborough, the former Republican congressman, did not enjoy his brief stint with Westwood One in 2005. But his MSNBC morning program, which replaced the TV simulcast of ''Imus in the Morning'' when Don Imus was fired for using racially charged language in 2007, resembles a radio show and attracted interest from radio networks earlier in the year. Mr. Scarborough expects his program to provide more political balance than some others.
 ''We have been in an era where you've had Rush Limbaugh, followed by a lot of conservative talk show hosts that lacked his talent and sense of humor,'' Mr. Scarborough said. ''They decided that if they just read Republican talking points, they'd get a big audience. I think that world is coming to an end. You're going to have to be entertaining like Limbaugh, but also allow people of all political stripes on the show.''
 Time will tell whether Mr. Scarborough and his co-host, Mika Brzezinski, can cross over to radio. ''So far, I don't think we've seen any TV personalities have success'' on radio stations, Ms. Mijatovic said, ''only the vice versa.'' Indeed, two of the newest stars of TV talk, Mr. Beck, who left CNN for Fox News, and the MSNBC host Rachel Maddow, emerged after years on the radio.
 And then there are the politicians who would be radio hosts. Mr. Thompson will start on March 2, replacing Mr. O'Reilly, who has said that he needed to spend more time working on his top-rated Fox News program. (Mr. O'Reilly will continue to record daily ''talking points'' segments for Westwood One affiliates.) 
 The syndicators hope that boldface names will help retain listeners in a fragmented world of media. As Mr. O'Reilly said in an interview with The Daily News, the Internet turns listeners into producers, creating new competition. ''So I have to be compelling enough to pull someone away from his own show -- which means I have to give him something he can't get on his own,'' he said.
 Through the first three quarters of the year, network radio ad spending declined 3.5 percent from the same time in 2007, according to Nielsen. The radio industry, while still a $20 billion business, has been on a downward trajectory for years as consumers have spent less time listening. But talk still has an edge over other formats, Ms. Mijatovic said, because the listeners are engaged with the hosts ''and don't tune out.''
 The presidential election provoked talk about the relevance of talk radio, especially given John McCain's ascendance to the top of the Republican ticket despite adamant opposition from conservative hosts. At the same time, left-wing blogs are acting as a powerful counterweight to the right-wing radio opposition that flourished during the 1990s. 
 In an opinion piece for USA Today this month, the radio host Michael Medved said he cherished the notion ''that the last time a young Democrat took over the White House with gauzy visions of change, it produced a 'Golden Age' for right-wing talk,'' referring to the presidency of Bill Clinton and the ascent of Rush Limbaugh, among others. But he expressed concern that talk shows have cultivated a ''niche audience rather than the Republican mainstream.''
 Shows like Mr. Scarborough's certainly are not seeking a niche audience, though. And longtime hosts like Mr. Limbaugh know that the incoming Democratic administration represents an opportunity to reassert talk radio's relevance. 
 The afternoon of Nov. 5, he was already nodding to it. In sports analogies, he told listeners: ''I'm not ready to take the field for another game. I'm on the field. We have taken the field, and we're getting ready. The game is begun.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 23, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about conservative radio talk show hosts' jockeying for position as a new administration takes office misstated the title of Gary Schonfeld, who said he expected conservative hosts to have more fun with a Democrat in the White House. He is president of the network division of Westwood One, not president of its network programming.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fred Thompson, above, is expected to take over Bill O'Reilly's radio slot next year. Rudolph Giuliani is also a potential host. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY M. SPENCER GREEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
 Rush Limbaugh, above, is the top news-talk radio host, followed by Sean Hannity, top. Five of the most popular names in syndicated radio have new contracts. Mr. Limbaugh's is worth $400 million through 2016. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CALVIN KNIGHT/THE LEDGER) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); RADIO FORMATS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (74%); COUNTRY MUSIC (72%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); DIAL GLOBAL INC (55%); PREMIERE RADIO NETWORKS INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS541840 MEDIA REPRESENTATIVES (55%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (55%); SIC7313 RADIO, TELEVISION, & PUBLISHERS' ADVERTISING REPRESENTATIVES (55%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL O'REILLY (89%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (89%); FRED THOMPSON (88%); RUDY GIULIANI (72%); GLENN BECK (58%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008



837 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: Off the Dribble: Knicks Have Options Beyond James in 2010

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK

 BODY:
When LeBron James coyly advised New Yorkers to keep their eyes on 2010, he was not promising a marriage with the Knicks. When James said this weekend that he might consider extending his contract with the Cleveland Cavaliers, that was not a commitment, either.
 But each comment surely inspired panic among the easily panicked. Cavaliers fans cannot bear the thought of losing James, their native son, to the big city (or anywhere else). And Knicks fans have been dreaming of James on Broadway since the moment the team began dumping contracts last month. 
 James will unquestionably be the No. 1 target of the Knicks -- and perhaps a dozen other teams -- in 2010, if James indeed becomes a free agent. But this has never been an all-or-nothing gambit.
 The list of potential free agents in 2010 is deep and spectacular. There are superstars: James, Dwyane Wade, Chris Bosh, Tracy McGrady and Dirk Nowitzki. There are perennial All-Stars: Joe Johnson, Amare Stoudemire, Carlos Boozer, Michael Redd, Ray Allen, Josh Howard, Manu Ginobili, Jermaine O'Neal and Steve Nash. And there are high-level role players: Luis Scola, Tyson Chandler, Stephen Jackson, Mehmet Okur, Hedo Turkoglu, Mike Miller, Udonis Haslem and Marcus Camby.
 Combining any two (or three) of those players would make a team respectable. Combining the right two could put a team in title contention.
 Chances are, not all of those players will become free agents. Some have opt-outs that they will not exercise. Some could sign extensions before 2010. That possibility was floated by James for the first time in Sunday's editions of The Plain Dealer of Cleveland.
 ''You play out this season, of course; I will consider it,'' James said. ''The direction we are headed is everything I expected and more.''
 The Cavaliers are 23-4 and appear absolutely capable of challenging the Boston Celtics for supremacy in the Eastern Conference, and the N.B.A. at large. So James has reason to feel optimistic about his future in Cleveland. He also has every reason to keep his options open and to let the drama play out over the next 18 months while assessing the competitive and economic landscape.
 But Knicks General Manager Donnie Walsh could miss on James and still revive the franchise in 2010, just by being in the market again. The possibilities are intriguing: Wade and Bosh? Johnson and Stoudemire? Redd, Chandler and Nash?
 As Walsh said the day he was hired as the Knicks' team president last spring, having cap space ''would be a monstrous thing'' for the franchise.
 ''You can turn something over overnight in a lot of ways if you can manage the cap the right way now,'' he said.
 The Knicks have not had cap room since 1996, when they signed Allan Houston to a seven-year, $56 million contract. They have spent every season since swapping one large contract for another, inflating the payroll to record-setting levels without having the chance to chase Kobe Bryant or Tim Duncan, Jason Kidd or Chris Webber, Elton Brand or Josh Smith.
 ''He thinks the Knicks should be under the cap no matter what the scenario is,'' Coach Mike D'Antoni said of Walsh, ''and then deal from strength, instead of being handicapped with certain moves.''
 In the N.B.A., cap room also means flexibility. A team under the cap does not have to balance salaries in trades. It can serve as a bridge in three-team deals. And unspent cap space in 2010 can always be rolled into the summer of 2011. 
 James will keep his options open, his commentary vague and N.B.A. fans on edge for many months to come. A single misplaced modifier will inspire irrational exuberance in one city and despair in another.
 The Knicks, however, seem sure of their course.
 ''You can go through all kinds of hypotheticals,'' D'Antoni said, ''but this league is a lot of times built through free agency and trades and stuff of that sort. We just want to put ourselves in a position where we can do everything.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left, Dwyane Wade, Chris Bosh, Joe Johnson, Manu Ginobili, Amare Stoudemire and Dirk Nowitzki could become free agents in 2010. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (89%); CELEBRITIES (76%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND CAVALIERS (84%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (67%) OHIO, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008



838 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1968 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: December 22, 2008

 BODY:
International
 PROTESTS HIGHLIGHT ANXIETY 
 In Russia Over Downturn
 A series of small demonstrations in several Russian cities were the most visible evidence of discontent with the government's handling of the financial crisis. The government was broadly popular when the price of oil was high and Russia's economy was soaring, but the downturn has led to a spike in unemployment and the value of the ruble has dropped. PAGE A6
 BRAZIL PLAN ECHOES ACTIVIST'S VISION
 Francisco Alves Mendes, better known as Chico, became a martyr for a concept that is only now gaining mainstream support in Brazil: that the value of a standing forest could be more than the value of a forest burned and logged in the name of development. 
 PAGE A6
 NO U.S. SUPPORT FOR ZIMBABWE PACT
 The top United States envoy to Africa said the American government could no longer back a power-sharing deal that would leave Robert Mugabe, ''a man who's lost it,'' as the president. PAGE A11
 CACAO JOURNAL 
 Forging a Home In the Hinterlands
 Displaced members of the Hmong, a mountain tribe from Laos, have been outcasts in most of the places they have resettled. But they have thrived in French Guiana, where the once-penniless refugees have become self-sufficient, and whose labors now account for about 80 percent of the fruits and vegetables sold in the remote French department. ''If it were not for the Hmong, we joke that we would starve in this strange place,'' a politician said. PAGE A8
 IRAN GETS RUSSIAN MISSILE SYSTEM
 An official Iranian news agency said that Russia had begun delivering an advanced air-defense system, which can track aircraft and fire at them from more than 100 miles away, to Iran, despite earlier denials by Russia that a deal had been reached. PAGE A11
 Iran's Police Shut Down Rights Office A11
 SHOE THROWER DESCRIBES TORTURE
 Muntader al-Zaidi, the Iraqi reporter who has been in jail since hurling his shoes at President Bush during a news conference in Baghdad last week, was burned by a cigarette in the hours after his arrest and was beaten so badly by Iraqi security personnel that one of his teeth was knocked out, his brother said. Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki said that he received a letter from Mr. Zaidi saying that a terrorist had persuaded him to throw his shoes at Mr. Bush. PAGE A12
 NATIONAL
 AN OLD MOBSTER MAKES
 An Effort at Atonement
 For years tips would come to the police and The Providence Journal about where the body of Joe Onions might be found. None panned out. Then came a revelationfrom a man who was once a smart-dressing mobster nicknamed Nicky, who did not have long to live and wanted to get something off his chest. Dan Barry, This Land. PAGE A13
 SEATTLE'S UNUSUAL RAIN
 Snow usually comes in liquid form to Seattle, which makes the recent weather something for the books and a good time for a hardware store to have a healthy supply of sleds. PAGE A13
 FOCUS ON WAYS TO HELP FAMILIES
 Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. has his first big assignment: leading a presidential task force charged with finding ways to bolster the standard of living of middle-class and working families. PAGE A14
 A WARNING FROM THE MIDDLE
 Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee has always been considered a moderate, as Republicans go. And he offers the usual make-nice comments about working with the incoming president. But he also promises that if that new president and ''hyper-partisan'' Democrats on Capitol Hill have ideas about sending the country lurching to the left, they have another thing coming. John Harwood, The Caucus. PAGE A15
 BADGES OF GOLD
 Rank-and-file police officers in St. Louis wear badges that cost $19.75. But the police department spent $1,987 each on gold-filled badges for the new chief and other top officers. Still, that represents a savings from the $5,900 each the city spent on two solid-gold badges for the previous police chief. PAGE A16
 NEW YORK
 ALBANY HOPES TO SALVAGE
 A Winter Pastime
 For want of $150,000, the open-air ice skating rink in Albany stands iceless and idle. The empty space is a visible reminder to the government workers and other passers-by of a state budget deficit estimated at a record $15.4 billion. Meanwhile, the mayor hopes to come up with the money to salvage some of the skating season. PAGE A22
 A CELEBRATION OF SHORT
 Its counterpart in June generally delivers better weather, making outdoor celebrations simpler. But the winter solstice yesterday did not pass without notice for 17 people who got themselves out of bed in the darkness of the shortest day of the year to bang on drums at an intersection in Brooklyn. PAGE A22
 BUSINESS
 TV HOST FINDS A WAY 
 To Profit From Guests' Pain
 Montel Williams has a new gig, now that his talk show has been canceled. True, it may still look like a talk show, but a difference is he hopes to directly profit from the sad tales of the people he features by pitching products intended to offer solutions. Childhood obesity? Here, buy a juicer. PAGE B1
 GUESSING AT CHRYSLER'S PLAN
 Within the language of a statement about a federal loan (including phrases like ''to facilitate the accommodations necessary to affect the restructuring''), Chrysler's parent, the private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management, may have been saying that it is willing to wash its hands of the car company. PAGE B1
 LAW FIRM'S FUTURE IN DOUBT
 The future of Thacher Proffitt & Wood, a 160-year-old Wall Street law firm that has struggled to survive the financial crisis, is in question with the departure of more than 40 partners who are leaving to join a bigger firm. PAGE B2
 WWW.EVERYTHINGMUSTGO.BIZ
 Sometimes the Web sites of companies that have filed for bankruptcy make the changes clear: the ''Going Out of Business!'' banner on the Linen 'N Things site, for example. The Bear Stearns site ushers a visitor toward its new parent company, JPMorgan Chase. And some sites disappear entirely. But mention the word bankruptcy? Not likely. PAGE B6
 SPORTS
 SMOOTH SAILING FOR GIANTS
 Turns Into a Squall
 Four weeks ago, the Giants were getting the respect they did not get from some, despite winning the Super Bowl last year. But then Plaxico Burress shot himself in the thigh and his team in the foot, Brandon Jacobs started aching and the schedule started delivering desperate opponents and last night's surging Carolina Panthers. William C. Rhoden, Sports of The Times. PAGE D1
 AN OLYMPIC PREPARATION
 After the United States' women's hockey team's disappointing bronze-medal finish at the 2006 Games, some felt that the team was less prepared for international competitions than other countries. To address that concern for 2010, 16 Olympic hopefuls are taking part in a 41-game schedule that includes varied opponents: women's college and semipro, boys high school and Junior A, and adult men. PAGE D1
 OPTIONS BEYOND JAMES
 LeBron James is seemingly teasing Knicks fans with his potential availability in 2010 while also saying that, who knows, he might just re-up with the Cleveland Cavaliers. Whatever he decides, the list of possible free agents in 2010 includes superstars, perennial all-stars and high-level role players, who together and separately offer the Knicks assorted possibilities. PAGE D3
 ANOTHER FAVRE STRUGGLE
 Remember that brief period of giddiness that had New Yorkers dreaming of a Subway Super Bowl? This was what Brett Favre was brought here for, right? But on Sunday, needing only to beat a three-win Seahawks to keep the Jets in the driver's seat in the A.F.C. East, Favre struggled against a team ranked 30th in the league in total defense and dead last in passing defense. Result: a 13-3 loss, the Jets third in four games. PAGE D4 
 KEEPING PACE WITHOUT THE JETS
 While the Jets were busily falling out of the tie for first place in the American Football Conference East, the other two teams kept themselves in contention. The quarterback the Jets discarded, Chad Pennington, threw three touchdowns to lead the Dolphins past the Chiefs 38-31, and the ''Who Needs Tom Brady?'' Patriots pounded the Cardinals 47-7. PAGE D7
 OBITUARIES
 WILLIAM W. KAUFMANN, 90
 A close adviser to seven defense secretaries and a major proponent of a shift away from the early cold war strategy of mass nuclear retaliation against the Soviet Union. PAGE A31
 Arts
 JIM CARREY AND WILL SMITH FILMS BATTLE WEATHER AND POOR REVIEWS
 Jim Carrey's upbeat ''Yes Man,'' about a guy who can't say no, and Will Smith's downbeat ''Seven Pounds,'' about redemption and body organs, fought bad weather and even worse reviews at the weekend box office, drawing $18.2 and $16 million, respectively. PAGE C1 
 MEDIEVAL PROTO-OPERA AT CLOISTERS
 Producing ''The Play of Daniel,'' a 12th-century music drama, was an ambitious and costly undertaking for Concerts at the Cloisters, the series presented by the Metropolitan Museum of Art in Fort Tryon Park. Only four afternoon performances were offered and all sold out. After seeing it, Anthony Tommasini was convinced that ''The Play of Daniel'' could have run for a month. PAGE C1 
 A TRIO OF POWER VOICES REUNITE
 The second attempt at a complete opening concert for the reunion tour of Labelle, to promote the trio's new album, ''Back to Now,'' was triumphant, Jon Pareles writes. On Friday night, the winter storm disabled the sound system, but Labelle -- Patti Labelle, Nona Hendryx and Sarah Dash -- returned, singing two songs unamplified with a gospel choir, before asking the audience to come back for the full show on Saturday. PAGE C1 
 A CONDUCTOR RUNS AROUND TOWN
 During the busiest season for a choral conductor, holiday spice is not always in abundance. Take Kent Tritle. He conducts Musica Sacra's annual ''Messiah'' performances on Monday and Tuesday at Carnegie Hall. Just last Monday, he led the Oratorio Society of New York's annual ''Messiah'' at Carnegie. And from Wednesday through Saturday, as organist of the New York Philharmonic, he played four performances of ''Messiah.'' PAGE C3 
 Book Review: ''The King's Messenger'' C7 
 Dance Reviews
 Ethel Moves and Plays
 The new-music string quartet Ethel has always evinced a taste for straying outside parameters. So it was no surprise to learn that their most recent enterprise is a collaboration with the choreographer Annie-B Parson in ''Wait for Green,'' presented by arts>World Financial Center in the Winter Garden. PAGE C5 
 Christian Rock, Pop and Folk Concert C5 
 HEROINES OF BALLET, BRAVELY FUNNY
 For the second program of its season at the Joyce Theater, Les Ballets Trockadero de Monte Carlo offered another interpretation of the ''Dying Swan,'' a repeat performance of the ''Corsaire'' pas de deux for Yakatarina Verbosovich and Jacques d'Aniels. They tore up the stage (in a good way), Gia Kourlas writes. PAGE C5 
 Three Choreographers Spread Wings C4 
 Editorial
 THE PRINTING-PRESS CURE
 The Federal Reserve as much as admitted last week that lowering the benchmark interest rate would not be powerful enough medicine to revive today's ailing economy. And so it has opted for the printing-press cure, pledging for the foreseeable future to pump vast sums into banks, other financial firms, businesses and households. PAGE 32
 Op-Ed
 WILLIAM KRISTOL
 In defense of Dick Cheney and (in a way) Rod Blagojevich. PAGE 33
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 It may take a lot longer than many people think before the United States economy is ready to live without bubbles. And until then, the economy is going to need a lot of government help. PAGE 33
 HARD TIMES, A HELPING HAND
 At the height of the Depression 75 years ago, writes Op-Ed contributor Ted Gup, a mysterious benefactor stepped up to help some of the neediest citizens of Canton, Ohio -- and in the process created a longstanding family secret. PAGE 33

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (84%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARRESTS (78%); STARVATION (77%); FOREST FIRES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); DISPLACED PERSONS (71%); REFUGEES (67%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (64%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (64%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (77%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); BRAZIL (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ZIMBABWE (79%); AFRICA (79%); FRENCH GUIANA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008



839 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (49); 10 P.M. (13) THE LIFE A HOUSE BUILT: THE 25TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE JIMMY AND ROSALYNN CARTER WORK PROJECT Centering on the 2008 Blitz Build, a five-day period this spring in which hundreds of homes were built or restored along the hurricane-ravaged Gulf Coast, this documentary traverses the Carters' 25-year involvement with Habitat for Humanity. ''When the poorest of families in the slums of America move into a nice home, immediately their whole ambition toward life changes,'' former President Carter, above right, says, adding that ''they have a sense of human dignity that they didn't have before.'' Kevin O'Connor of ''This Old House'' is host.
 7 A.M. (NBC) TODAY Dustin Hoffman promotes his latest film, ''Last Chance Harvey,'' before moving on to ''Live With Regis and Kelly'' at 9 on ABC. 
 8 P.M. (BBC America) TOP GEAR Jeremy Clarkson tests the new Brooklands Bentley Super Coupe before joining Richard Hammond and James May in a challenge in which each must buy an old Alfa Romeo for $:1,000 or less and then treat it like a luxury auto. Rob Brydon and James Corden of ''Gavin & Stacey'' are the Stars in a Reasonably Priced Car. 
 8 P.M. (HBO) MY ZINC BED (2008) Paddy Considine and Uma Thurman, right, form a triangle with Jonathan Pryce, all enslaved by love and addiction in this television adaptation, produced with the BBC, of David Hare's play about an alcoholic poet who has an affair with the wife of his rich boss. The drama, directed by Anthony Page (''Middlemarch''), had its premiere in Britain in August.
 8 P.M. (NBC) 'TODAY' LOOKS BACK AT 2008: A HOLIDAY SPECIAL Memorable moments and newsmakers from the last year, rehashed by Matt Lauer, Meredith Vieira, Al Roker and Ann Curry and topped off by bloopers from ''Today.''
 8:30 P.M. (ESPN) MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL The 39th season closes with a face-off between the Green Bay Packers and the Chicago Bears at Soldier Field in Chicago. 
 9 P.M. (Fox) PRISON BREAK While Linc (Dominic Purcell) and his new colleagues go after Scylla in Miami, Michael (Wentworth Miller) waits at a mountain lodge in California, where he is regressed to his childhood by a Company psychiatrist (John Getz). Sara (Sarah Wayne Callies) waits in a luxury hotel for news of Michael in this Season 4 fall finale.
 9 P.M. (Sundance) JESUS IN INDIA (2008) Paul Davids sifts through legends, myths and evidence to unravel the mysteries of the life of Jesus from ages 12 to 30, an 18-year period that is not described in the Bible. Among the more controversial explanations for the so-called Hidden Years: that Jesus may have spent some of this time in India, a theory examined in the book ''King of Travelers: Jesus' Lost Years in India'' by Edward T. Martin. Mr. Davids follows Mr. Martin as he visits holy sites and more contemporary settings, like the billboard above, and seeks clues about an ancient text found in a Himalayan monastery. Weighing in are the Dalai Lama; the Princeton theologian Elaine Pagels; and Alan Mitchell and Anthony Tambasco of Georgetown University.
 10 P.M. (A&E) RUNAWAY SQUAD This new series tags along with Joe Mazzilli, a retired New York Police Department undercover detective, and his squad of private investigators as they search for runaways. 
 10 P.M. (MTV) THE HILLS Lauren and Heidi, in a chance encounter, are reminded of better days in this Season 4 finale. Meanwhile, Justin sweeps Audrina away to Palms Springs, Calif., and the newly wedded Spencer and Heidi face the music when her mother comes for a visit.
 10:30 P.M. (E!) FORBES CELEBRITY 100 2008: WHO MADE BANK A countdown of actors, athletes, musicians and moguls for whom the flailing economy is of no concern.
 11 P.M. (Sundance) COCALERO (2007) Alejandro Landes documents the final months of the campaign of Evo Morales, an Aymaran Indian who was elected the first indigenous president of Bolivia in 2005, and party comrades like Leonilda Zurita, the leader of a women's coca union. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (88%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (84%); SPORTS (84%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); SLUM DWELLINGS (72%); TROPICAL STORMS (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); MAMMALS (56%)

COMPANY: GREEN BAY PACKERS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL (57%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (90%); REGIS PHILBIN (53%); MEREDITH VIEIRA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%) SOUTHEAST USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (91%); INDIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008



840 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Life Without Bubbles

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Whatever the new administration does, we're in for months, perhaps even a year, of economic hell. After that, things should get better, as President Obama's stimulus plan -- O.K., I'm told that the politically correct term is now ''economic recovery plan'' -- begins to gain traction. Late next year the economy should begin to stabilize, and I'm fairly optimistic about 2010.
 But what comes after that? Right now everyone is talking about, say, two years of economic stimulus -- which makes sense as a planning horizon. Too much of the economic commentary I've been reading seems to assume, however, that that's really all we'll need -- that once a burst of deficit spending turns the economy around we can quickly go back to business as usual. 
 In fact, however, things can't just go back to the way they were before the current crisis. And I hope the Obama people understand that.
 The prosperity of a few years ago, such as it was -- profits were terrific, wages not so much -- depended on a huge bubble in housing, which replaced an earlier huge bubble in stocks. And since the housing bubble isn't coming back, the spending that sustained the economy in the pre-crisis years isn't coming back either.
 To be more specific: the severe housing slump we're experiencing now will end eventually, but the immense Bush-era housing boom won't be repeated. Consumers will eventually regain some of their confidence, but they won't spend the way they did in 2005-2007, when many people were using their houses as ATMs, and the savings rate dropped nearly to zero.
 So what will support the economy if cautious consumers and humbled homebuilders aren't up to the job?
 A few months ago a headline in the satirical newspaper The Onion, on point as always, offered one possible answer: ''Recession-Plagued Nation Demands New Bubble to Invest In.'' Something new could come along to fuel private demand, perhaps by generating a boom in business investment. 
 But this boom would have to be enormous, raising business investment to a historically unprecedented percentage of G.D.P., to fill the hole left by the consumer and housing pullback. While that could happen, it doesn't seem like something to count on.
 A more plausible route to sustained recovery would be a drastic reduction in the U.S. trade deficit, which soared at the same time the housing bubble was inflating. By selling more to other countries and spending more of our own income on U.S.-produced goods, we could get to full employment without a boom in either consumption or investment spending.
 But it will probably be a long time before the trade deficit comes down enough to make up for the bursting of the housing bubble. For one thing, export growth, after several good years, has stalled, partly because nervous international investors, rushing into assets they still consider safe, have driven the dollar up against other currencies -- making U.S. production much less cost-competitive. 
 Furthermore, even if the dollar falls again, where will the capacity for a surge in exports and import-competing production come from? Despite rising trade in services, most world trade is still in goods, especially manufactured goods -- and the U.S. manufacturing sector, after years of neglect in favor of real estate and the financial industry, has a lot of catching up to do.
 Anyway, the rest of the world may not be ready to handle a drastically smaller U.S. trade deficit. As my colleague Tom Friedman recently pointed out, much of China's economy in particular is built around exporting to America, and will have a hard time switching to other occupations.
 In short, getting to the point where our economy can thrive without fiscal support may be a difficult, drawn-out process. And as I said, I hope the Obama team understands that.
 Right now, with the economy in free fall and everyone terrified of Great Depression 2.0, opponents of a strong federal response are having a hard time finding support. John Boehner, the House Republican leader, has been reduced to using his Web site to seek ''credentialed American economists'' willing to add their names to a list of ''stimulus spending skeptics.''
 But once the economy has perked up a bit, there will be a lot of pressure on the new administration to pull back, to throw away the economy's crutches. And if the administration gives in to that pressure too soon, the result could be a repeat of the mistake F.D.R. made in 1937 -- the year he slashed spending, raised taxes and helped plunge the United States into a serious recession. 
 The point is that it may take a lot longer than many people think before the U.S. economy is ready to live without bubbles. And until then, the economy is going to need a lot of government help. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008



841 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: The Printing Press Cure

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve as much as admitted last week that lowering the benchmark interest rate -- even to zero -- would not be powerful enough medicine to revive today's ailing economy. And so it has opted for the printing-press cure, pledging for the foreseeable future to pump vast sums into banks, other financial firms, businesses and households. 
 Economic history -- of the Great Depression of the 1930s and Japan's lost decade in the 1990s -- suggests that the Fed is doing the right thing. Confronted then, as now, with the twin scourges of deepening recession and incipient deflation, governments did more damage with too little intervention than they would have done with too much. 
 But that doesn't make such intervention ''good.'' It's a big and unfortunate risk in itself. 
 Flooding the economy with freshly printed money may prevent a self-reinforcing downward spiral. But it may cause trouble long after the present danger has passed. One reason is that it could cause inflation later. In a worst-case scenario, inflation, or the fear of inflation, could dissuade foreign investors, who finance the United States' debt, from buying and holding dollars. That, in turn, could provoke a disorderly decline in the currency, sending prices and interest rates sharply higher.
 For the Fed, engineering the new rescue programs is a technical challenge. It will have to be remarkably deft in draining the system of excess dollars in a timely way. It will also need to be vigilant for signs that the dollar is being unduly pressured, and be prepared to react.
 For Barack Obama, the challenge is one of leadership. As president, Mr. Obama will have to convey optimism without overpromising. He will have to inspire confidence, even in the absence of a dramatic turnaround -- which is simply not in the cards. To his credit, Mr. Obama has already warned the American people that conditions will get worse before they get better. 
 In the attempt to make them better, the Obama administration will first face the question of the size of the stimulus. The latest numbers are in the $700 billion range. The economy certainly needs the help, but Obama officials will have to be mindful of the possible long-term negative effects of their outsized borrowing. They must also ensure that the money is not misused to benefit high-income constituents. To jump-start the economy requires getting money to those who will spend it fast and in full. That includes unemployed workers, low- and middle-income families, and state and local governments. 
 The stimulus package must also be accompanied by a foreclosure prevention measure. In the campaign, Mr. Obama favored amending the law so that bankrupt homeowners could have their mortgages reworked under court protection. That would let many people keep their homes without burdening taxpayers with the cost of the loan modifications. But Mr. Obama has not yet given details about his next moves. If bankruptcy reform is not an immediate plan, he should target the next $350 billion installment of the $700 billion bailout fund on foreclosure prevention. 
 While Mr. Obama must continue to level with the American people -- the economy is unlikely to turn up until 2010 at the earliest, and even then will probably rebound slowly -- his near-term moves will go a long way toward making the burdens yet to come more bearable. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DEFLATION (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); FAMILY (77%); RECESSION (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); FORECLOSURE (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (61%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (51%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008



842 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Obama Announces Task Force to Assist Middle-Class Families

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: KAILUA, Hawaii 

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama on Sunday announced the creation of a task force to bolster the standard of living of middle-class and working families in America, tapping Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. to lead the effort with four members of the cabinet. 
 ''Our charge is to look at existing and future policies across the board and use a yardstick to measure how they are impacting the working- and middle-class families,'' Mr. Biden said in a statement on Sunday. ''Is the number of these families growing? Are they prospering?''
 The effort, which is called the White House Task Force on Working Families, is intended to focus on improving education and training for working Americans as well as protecting incomes and retirement security of the middle class. The group, officials said, will work with labor and business leaders.
 The task force is the first discrete assignment for Mr. Biden. He said the Obama administration would measure the success of its economic policy by whether the middle class was growing and prospering. Other members of the group include the secretaries of labor, education, commerce, and health and human services, as well as the top economic advisers to the president.
 As Mr. Obama opened the first full day of his holiday vacation in his native Hawaii, the effort was announced by transition officials in Washington. The president-elect did not speak about the plan, as he spent the day out of public view with his family and a small group of friends from Chicago who are accompanying him in Hawaii.
 ''My administration will be absolutely committed to the future of America's middle-class and working families,'' Mr. Obama said in a statement, repeating a central tenet from his presidential campaign. ''They will be front and center every day in our work in the White House, and this task force will be one vehicle we will use to ensure that we never forget that commitment.''
 With the president-elect on vacation, Mr. Biden took a leading role for the coming administration, making his first appearance since the election on a Sunday morning news program. In an interview on ''This Week'' on ABC, Mr. Biden said the economy was in sharper decline than he had assumed. ''President-elect Obama and I know the economic health of working families has eroded, and we intend to turn that around,'' he said. ''We've got to begin to stem this bleeding here and begin to stop the loss of jobs in the creation of jobs.''
 During the campaign, Mr. Obama often derided the blue-ribbon panels and commissions that administrations sometimes form. But the working families task force, his advisers said, was more substantive because it included members of the cabinet who have the president's ear and the authority to carry out proposals. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr., shown in a photograph taken Friday, will lead the White House Task Force on Working Families, which will work with business and labor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAUREN VICTORIA BURKE/ABC NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); JOB CREATION (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOE BIDEN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008



843 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: As Economy Dips, Arrests for Shoplifting Soar

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA and SEAN D. HAMILL; Bob Driehaus contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Richard R. Johnson is the first to admit it was a bad idea. 
 Recently laid off from a job building trailers in Elkhart, Ind., Mr. Johnson came up a dollar short at Martin's Supermarket last month when he went to buy a $4.99 bottle of sleep medication. So, ''for some stupid reason,'' he tried to shoplift it and was immediately arrested.
 ''I was desperate, I guess,'' said Mr. Johnson, 25, who said he had never been arrested before. As the economy has weakened, shoplifting has increased, and retail security experts say the problem has grown worse this holiday season. Shoplifters are taking everything from compact discs and baby formula to gift cards and designer clothing.
 Police departments across the country say that shoplifting arrests are 10 percent to 20 percent higher this year than last. The problem is probably even greater than arrest records indicate since shoplifters are often banned from stores rather than arrested. 
 Much of the increase has come from first-time offenders like Mr. Johnson making rash decisions in a pinch, the authorities say. But the ease with which stolen goods can be sold on the Internet has meant a bigger role for organized crime rings, which also engage in receipt fraud, fake price tagging and gift card schemes, the police and security experts say. 
 And as temptation has grown for potential thieves, so too has stores' vulnerability. 
 ''More people are desperate economically, retailers are operating with leaner staffs and police forces are cutting back or being told to deprioritize shoplifting calls,'' said Paul Jones, the vice president of asset protection for the Retail Industry Leaders Association. 
 The problem, he said, could be particularly acute this December, ''the month of the year when shoplifting always goes way up.''
 Two of the largest retail associations say that more than 80 percent of their members are reporting sharp increases in shoplifting, according to surveys conducted in the last two months. 
 Compounding the problem, stores are more reluctant to stop suspicious customers because they fear scaring away much-needed business. And retailers are increasingly trying to save money by hiring seasonal workers who, security experts say, are themselves more likely to commit fraud or theft and are less practiced at catching shoplifters than full-time employees are.
 More than $35 million in merchandise is stolen each day nationwide, and about one in 11 people in America have shoplifted, according to the nonprofit National Association for Shoplifting Prevention. 
 ''We used to see more repeat offenders doing it because of drug addiction,'' said Samyah Jubran, an assistant district attorney in Knoxville who for 13 years has handled the bulk of the shoplifting cases there. ''But many of these new offenders may be doing it because of the economic situation. Maybe they're hurting at home, and they're taking a risk they may not take otherwise.''
 Much of the stolen merchandise is sold online. 
 Dave Finley, the president of Leadsonline.com, which offers software that helps store owners track stolen goods being sold online and at pawn shops, said his company had seen a 50 percent increase over the last year in the number of shoplifting investigations handled by the company. 
 Security experts say retail theft is also being facilitated by Web sites that sell fake receipts that thieves can use to obtain cash refunds for stolen merchandise.
 Andreas Carthy, the creator of one such site, denied that he was assisting with fraud.
 ''We provide a no-questions-asked service,'' he said in an e-mail message, adding that his site was intended for people looking for prank gifts or students seeking to inflate spending to get more generous allowances from their parents.
 At about $40 each, the Web site -- which insists they are ''for novelty use only'' -- sells about 80 fake receipts a month, Mr. Carthy said.
 Local law enforcement and retailers have been trying new tactics to battle shoplifting and other forms of retail crime.
 In Savannah, Ga., a local convenience store chain has linked its video surveillance to a police station so officers can help monitor the store for shoplifting and other crimes. In Louisiana, the police have been requiring shoplifters, even first-time offenders, to post $1,000 bail or stay in jail until their court date. On Staten Island, malls have started posting the mug shots of repeat shoplifters on video screens. 
 ''There are more of them, and they seem more desperate,'' said a store manager about shoplifters at the nation's largest shopping center, the Mall of America in Bloomington, Minn., which has seen a 19 percent increase in shoplifting this year over last.
 The manager, who asked not to be identified because she was not permitted to speak to reporters, said stealing gift cards was especially popular during the holidays.
 Shoplifters also seem to be getting bolder, according to industry surveys.
 Thieves often put stolen items in bags lined with aluminum foil to avoid detection by the storefront alarms. Others work in teams, with a decoy who tries to look suspicious to draw out undercover security agents and attract the attention of security cameras, the police said.
 ''We're definitely seeing more sprinters,'' said an undercover security guard at Macy's in Oakland, Calif., referring to shoplifters who make a run for the door.
 The guard said that most large department stores instructed guards not to chase shoplifters more than 100 feet outside the store, because research showed that confrontations tended to become more serious beyond that point.
 The holidays are a particularly popular time for pilfering.
 About 20 percent of annual retail sales occur in November and December, and even with precautions, the increased customer traffic makes it tougher to track thieves. Moreover, cashiers are rushed by long lines, making them less vigilant about checking for stolen credit cards.
 Mr. Johnson, who was arrested last month, said that after being laid off from his $20-an-hour job at a trailer factory a year ago, he took a job for $6.55 an hour at McDonald's. Six months later, he was laid off and has not been able to find a job since. 
 He and his two small children rely on his wife's minimum-wage job at Wal-Mart, groceries from a food bank and help from his mother, he said.
 ''I just know things are going to get a lot rougher,'' said Mr. Johnson, who is awaiting trial. He added that no matter how tough it became, he had no intention of shoplifting again.
 Mr. Martin said he was shocked that the store had decided to prosecute him for stealing such a small amount. A manager at Martin's Supermarket said the store had a policy of prosecuting all shoplifting. 
 Retail security experts, however, say that people like Mr. Johnson do not pose the biggest threat to stores. People like Tommy Joe Tidwell do.
 Mr. Tidwell, 35, pleaded guilty last month to running a shoplifting ring out of Dayton, Ohio, that netted more than $1 million, according to court papers.
 After Mr. Tidwell would print fraudulent UPC bar code labels on his home computer, he and several conspirators would place them on items at Wal-Mart and other stores, then buy the merchandise for a fraction of the real price. They would resell the goods on the Internet, according to court papers.
 Joe LaRocca, vice president of loss prevention for the National Retail Federation, said that as the holidays approached, retail security workers were keeping a close eye on receipt fraud.
 But to entice shoppers, three times as many stores as last year have loosened their return policies, extending the return period and being more lenient with shoppers who lack receipts, according to the federation. 
 ''Retailers are trying to find a balance,'' Mr. LaRocca said. ''They want to provide good customer service at a time when it's crucial for customers to be able to shop comfortably or to return unwanted or duplicate gifts.
 ''But they also want to prevent criminals from taking advantage of them.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 2, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 23 about an increase in shoplifting arrests referred incorrectly to a Macy's store where an undercover security guard said he had seen an increase in shoplifters who make a run for the door. It is near Oakland, Calif., but not in Oakland. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cherise Godwin of Leadsonline.com training Dallas police officers on software that helps track stolen goods being sold online.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KHAMPHA BOUAPHANH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Richard R. Johnson, accused of shoplifting, in front of his apartment in Elkhart, Ind.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAYMOND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOPLIFTING (95%); ARRESTS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); POLICE FORCES (88%); SEASONAL WORKERS (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (76%); PROPERTY CRIMES (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008



844 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
A slide show of works by Richard Prince and Wallace Berman, two artists with almost nothing in common biographically, but who are paired in an exhibition, ''She,'' focusing on a subject that interested both artists: women. Berman loved photographing women, seemingly just for the pleasure of taking the shot; most of his pictures were never even printed during his lifetime. Mr. Prince mines the ways that society has portrayed women and how women have seemed to want to be portrayed. ''She'' will open Jan. 15 at the Michael Kohn Gallery in Los Angeles. Above left, Mr. Prince in Milton, Mass., in the mid-1970s. At right, an untitled photograph by Mr. Berman from 1964. 
 nytimes.com/design
 Opinion
 DOUG GLANVILLE: A GIFT FROM PUERTO RICO
 ''Winter ball'' changed the way the writer played baseball and saw the world.
 nytimes.com/opinion
 AUDIO: TODAY'S BUSINESS
 The Times's Jeff Sommer and Louise Story discuss executive compensation on Wall Street.
 nytimes.com/business
 AUDIO: TOYOTA BRACES FOR LOSS
 The Times's Martin Fackler discusses Toyota's expectation that it will post its first operating loss in 70 years.
 nytimes.com/business
 ON THE BLOGS
 Dot Earth
 Roads and Forest
 Roads used to end at ''the end of the world,'' South America's MAP Region, but global economic forces are poised to erode the last undeveloped stretches of the Amazon. 
 CHICO'S LEGACY
 Twenty years ago, after building a movement to stem the destruction of Brazil's rain forests, Francisco Alves ''Chico'' Mendes was killed for his efforts. How has Mr. Mendes' movement done?
 nytimes.com/dotearth
 Well VIDEO: Blogging Prostate Cancer
 In a video appearing on Well, Dana Jennings talks about his prostate cancer blog, life, love, sex and humor.
 nytimes.com/well
 Baghdad Bureau
 Missing, Inshallah
 So here you are, in Baghdad, for the third Christmas running and you decide, not unreasonably, to send your beautiful girlfriend a Christmas card. What could be simpler or more festive?
 nytimes.com/baghdadbureau
 The Lede
 A Media Darling Is Born
 Zhu Jiangiang or ''Strong Pig,'' above -- said to have survived on charcoal and rainwater for 36 days while trapped under earthquake debris -- is China's most inspirational animal for 2008.
 nytimes.com/thelede

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CHRISTMAS (88%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (87%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); RAIN FORESTS (70%); BASEBALL (68%); WRITERS (68%); PROSTATE DISEASE (65%); PROSTATE CANCER (62%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (52%); WAGES & SALARIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (85%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (85%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008



845 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1575 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Automakers Also Downshift

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
SAN ANTONIO -- Sales are off and production is down, so workers at the Toyota Tundra truck factory here are taking classes: how to handle tools safely, how to get along better with colleagues of varying backgrounds. Some have even cleaned local parks and fed the hungry while collecting Toyota paychecks.
''We'd rather be building trucks,'' said Mike Goss, a Toyota spokesman. ''I'm trying to imagine how many trucks we would be selling, with gas prices where they are now, if people were spending money.''
But people are not spending money these days, and sales of the Tundra and other Toyota vehicles have hit a wall. The sales slowdown, and some of the accompanying business problems, that have engulfed the Detroit automobile makers are rapidly spreading to the world's strongest auto companies. To cope, Toyota, Honda, Nissan and Hyundai are all slowing American production, and many foreign auto companies are putting off plant expansions. 
For the most part, the so-called auto transplants -- foreign-owned car companies with major operations in the United States -- have deep pockets and ample credit, and they are not facing potential bankruptcy like General Motors and Chrysler.
But none of the foreign companies have proved any better than the Detroit Three at predicting how gasoline prices would gyrate or the extent to which demand for cars and trucks would collapse in a deepening recession.
''The transplants are facing many of the same constraints that the domestics are facing: excess capacity, especially for light trucks like S.U.V.'s and pickup trucks,'' said Rebecca Lindland, an auto analyst at IHS Global Insight, a forecasting company. ''The difference is that this is the first time they have faced these kinds of issues. It's sort of a whole new world for them.''
The big question is how long the transplants can, or will, keep factories like the one in San Antonio operating at a snail's pace without laying off full-time workers. So far the companies have fired only temporary workers, but the future is clouded by the potential depth of the recession.
''The worst-case scenario is the current sales rate stays in place or gets worse for many years,'' said David Whiston, an auto analyst at Morningstar. ''But that's stuff that is too scary to think about.''
The tale of the Tundra and the San Antonio plant is part of a larger story of unprecedented juggling for Toyota, the biggest foreign car producer in the United States by far and a company long known for its skill in planning and execution. Until recently, the company had been struggling to keep up with demand in North America.
But only a year and a half after the plant opened in late 2006, gas prices soared to such heights that the pickup truck market crashed. As inventories of Tundras ballooned this summer, Toyota suspended production at the plant for three months. Now Tundras have begun rolling off the assembly line again, but with the economy reeling, even low gas prices have not revived sales.
The Tundra was originally meant to be made here and at a plant in Indiana. But as the truck market collapsed, Toyota decided to consolidate all its Tundra production in San Antonio and produce the Highlander S.U.V. at the Indiana plant.
Toyota further changed course with a plant under construction outside Tupelo, Miss., that was supposed to build Highlanders, deciding to produce the Prius hybrid there instead. But last week, with sales of even the Prius falling in the face of the economic downturn, Toyota decided to delay completion of the Mississippi plant indefinitely.
''It tells you how drastic the change is in the economy and the auto industry,'' said Kirk Kohler, the San Antonio plant's general manager for administration and production control. ''Even Toyota, which typically is very conservative and deliberative and makes decisions for the long term, even we did not see the change that was coming in the market.''
Toyota executives say that the planning for the Texas and Mississippi plants happened at a time when sales of vehicles in the United States were 16 million a year. That number is falling and may drop below 12 million in 2009, meaning most of the big carmakers have too much production capacity.
Originally the Tundra was conceived as Toyota's answer for the profitable American heavy pickup truck market, long dominated by the Detroit companies. It was designed in the United States, after American Toyota executives worked for years to convince top Japanese executives that the heavy pickup truck market was a big sales opportunity, particularly in Texas, the South and the Southwest.
Putting the factory in central Texas removed it from established parts supply lines, and it meant Toyota would be hiring in an area where wages are relatively high, but a large presence in Texas also assured the company additional political clout in Washington, industry analysts noted. Signs around the plant declared that the Tundra was ''Born in Texas, Built by Texans.''
Early on, the Tundra met expectations, winning Motor Trend magazine's Truck of the Year award and falling just short of the company goal of 200,000 in sales in 2007. But sales of the Tundra were off 50,000 over the first 11 months of this year compared with last. Last month, Toyota sold 6,607 Tundras, compared with 14,988 in November 2007.
The Tundra's poor sales performance is by no means exceptional. The Prius did only marginally better, with a sales drop last month of almost 50 percent. With total United States sales down 13.4 percent over the first 11 months, Toyota is cutting production days at plants across North America.
The San Antonio plant had run two eight-hour shifts from April 2007 to August 2008, when it went idle for three months. Now it is running a single shift producing one truck every two minutes, half the assembly line's capacity.
This year Toyota employed 2,250 people at the plant, including 350 temporary workers who were released when truck sales dropped. Executives at the plant estimate that a third of the 2,200 workers who worked for the 21 supply companies that support plant operations have been let go in recent months.
None of Toyota's full-time workers have been let go, and the company has assured them that their jobs are secure. During the three months when production was suspended, the workers came to the plant to attend seminars on quality control, cost control and improved ergonomics to reduce injuries and improve productivity.
More than 340 employees volunteered during work hours to clean, paint and landscape 17 San Antonio parks, while others prepared and distributed meals at a food bank for people who had fled the coast to escape Hurricane Ike in September. Now that the plant is back up, the two shifts have melded into one, and workers alternate between the assembly line and training sessions.
''Everybody was nervous, wondering what was going to happen'' when the plant stopped producing, recalled Anna Vallejo, an assembly line worker. But she said she got a ''sense of stability'' when management said there would be no layoffs of permanent workers.
Ms. Vallejo and other employees she works with on the assembly line have spent much of their down time learning Toyota techniques to identify problems and fix them. To reduce the frequency of tripping while working on the assembly line, they redesigned a tool cart and installed vents to reduce moisture that was warping a work platform.
''In other companies, they would let you go and call you back,'' Ms. Vallejo said. ''But here when we weren't producing, Toyota opted to keep us here and train us better.''
Toyota's labor practices contrast with those of the Detroit Three. Typically, during temporary factory shutdowns like those Chrysler announced last week, workers are paid about 70 percent of their salaries, which comes from unemployment benefits and a contribution from the company. Until recently, when plants were closed permanently, workers received their full salaries and reported to a room until a new job was found, in an often-ridiculed system called the ''job bank.''
Some auto analysts think it is only a matter of time before Toyota and other transplants change course, because it is too expensive to pay workers who are not building vehicles. Many of the transplants' factories are not union shops, and workers receive less generous pay and benefits than their counterparts in Detroit -- total compensation, counting benefits, runs about $45 an hour for the foreign companies, versus $55 an hour for the Detroit automakers. But even so, if sales remain depressed, paying workers to clean parks and take classes could fast become an expensive proposition.
''I see buyouts coming,'' said Maryann Keller, an auto consultant. ''In a year like this, training people who don't need to be trained is Toyota's job bank.''
But plant executives say the training has already improved the quality of the trucks produced since the production suspension, adding that inspectors are spotting 40 percent fewer defects.
With or without mass layoffs, analysts say that Toyota and the other auto transplants most likely have the resources to survive the recession, perhaps emerging as big winners once the economy turns.
Said Matthew J. Slaughter, an associate dean at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth: ''When your competitor is struggling or goes out of business, that tends to be a good thing for you if you are one of the stronger companies like Toyota and Honda.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: With production down at Toyota's truck plant in San Antonio, employees attended an exercise class, above, and training sessions, below. Workers alternate between classes and the assembly line, where Greg Gamez, right, was inspecting paint on a Tundra truck. Toyota has assured full-time workers their jobs are secure.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B1)
Last week, Erica Gomez, above, and Melissa Flores, far right, were working on an assembly line producing Tundra trucks in San Antonio. The plant has cut back to one shift from two.
 A shift change at Toyota's San Antonio plant. Workers now alternate between the assembly line and training sessions.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PICKUP TRUCKS (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (57%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



846 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: CAR SLUMP JOLTS TOYOTA, HALTING 70 YEARS OF GAIN

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and MARTIN FACKLER

 BODY:
A surprisingly grim forecast from Toyota Motor on Monday -- that it will lose money this fiscal year on its vehicle business for the first time in seven decades -- is the latest sign of the global auto industry's sharp slowdown after years of rising profits and rapid expansion.
 Worldwide vehicle production has been growing an average of 3 percent annually since the beginning of the decade, according to the research firm CSM Worldwide. But with sales falling in virtually every region because of weak economies and tight credit, auto companies will cut vehicle production as much as 10 percent next year, CSM predicted. 
 ''The sales decline has been so precipitous that production has to be reduced to catch up,'' said Michael Robinet, CSM's vice president for global vehicle forecasts.
 The fall-off in sales has accelerated in the past three months as consumers have struggled to get loans to buy vehicles. In turn, auto companies have closed factories to reduce inventories and taken other steps to save money. 
 Global vehicle production fell 16 percent in the fourth quarter, according to the firm IHS Global Insight. ''The collapse is far sharper than anything previously expected or previously experienced,'' said George Magliano, the firm's head of auto industry research for North America.
 The industry already has far more production capacity than it needs to meet consumer demand. Most major automakers have been steadily building factories in markets like India, China and Brazil in anticipation of millions of first-time buyers entering the market.
 CSM estimates that auto companies have enough factories to build 90 million vehicles a year. It said, however, those plants would produce only about 66 million vehicles in 2008 and even fewer next year.
 Detroit's struggling Big Three automakers have been cutting production in the United States to levels not seen since the 1950s. Last week, President Bush approved $17.4 billion in federal loans to keep General Motors and Chrysler from going bankrupt. 
 But the downturn is testing even the strongest companies, including the industry stalwart Toyota. 
 The company projected its first operating loss since 1938, its first year in business.
 At its annual news conference in Nagoya, Japan, on Monday, the company said the loss was for the fiscal year that ends in March. It declined to set a worldwide sales goal for 2009.
 ''The tough times are hitting us far faster, wider and deeper than expected,'' said Katsuaki Watanabe, Toyota's president. ''This is an unprecedented crisis requiring urgent action.''
 Toyota has offered steadily bleaker forecasts in recent months, and been forced to take unusual steps after reporting eight consecutive years of record profits before this year. In the United States, for example, it has halted work on a plant in Mississippi and enrolled idled employees in classes at its truck factory in San Antonio, because fewer of them are needed on the production line.
 Analysts said the industry shake-out was likely to get worse next year, with weaker companies being forced out of business or acquired by stronger competitors. 
 ''It is just a matter of time before all major automakers are losing money,'' said Koji Endo, an auto analyst in Tokyo for Credit Suisse Securities.
 Automakers have been steadily reducing their production plans in the United States since the spring, but have been slower to react in other regions.
 Besides cutting production to balance shrinking demand, the auto companies are delaying or canceling new factories in countries like Thailand and Russia.
 ''This is going to be felt throughout the entire system,'' Mr. Magliano said. ''There's very little growth anywhere out there in the next year.''
 Toyota's announcement underscores what Detroit's auto executives told lawmakers during Congressional hearings on their requests for a federal bailout -- that no company was immune from the global downturn and credit crisis. 
 Toyota, which is poised to pass G.M. for bragging rights as the world's largest vehicle maker, said it still expected to eke out a narrow net profit for the fiscal year because of contributions from its nonauto businesses.
 But the company lowered the number of vehicles it expected to sell this year to 8.9 million, from its forecast of 9.5 million.
 ''The change in the world economy is of a magnitude that comes once every hundred years,'' Mr. Watanabe said.
 He said Toyota would suspend investment in new plants in addition to the factory in Mississippi, and reduce production in some plants to single shifts. The company has even unplugged electric hand dryers at some offices in an effort to cut costs.
 Other automakers are following suit. Hyundai Motor and Kia Motors of South Korea cut their joint 2008 sales forecast by 12.5 percent and said they would freeze pay for managers amid slumping vehicle demand. 
 Europe has not been immune to the pain. Last week, Fiat extended its program of temporary plant closures in Italy by two months into February. The Italian company acknowledged this month that its car business needed a partner to survive the economic crisis.
 PSA Peugeot Citroen, the French carmaker, has temporarily halted production in dozens of factories across the country in recent weeks.
 Honda Motor, Japan's second-largest carmaker, cut its profit forecast for the current fiscal year by two-thirds last week. The company's president, Takeo Fukui, spoke of an ''abrupt change'' in the conditions facing the global industry, a ''severe business environment'' and a ''sharp sales downturn'' since mid-September.
 ''They've caught the same cold that Detroit has caught,'' said Christopher Richter, senior analyst in Tokyo at Calyon Capital Markets Asia.
 The Detroit auto companies have closed dozens of plants and cut more than 150,000 jobs in the last three years. But the deterioration in sales has forced even deeper cuts recently.
 Chrysler has shut all 30 of its North American manufacturing plants for a month to save money and reduce inventories. G.M. will permanently close two of its assembly plants, in Wisconsin and Ohio, on Tuesday as it continues to reduce its production of sport utility vehicles.
 Even though production is being cut around the world, analysts believe that economic stimulus efforts by governments will get the industry back on a growth track eventually.
 ''We're still looking at this as a cyclical phenomenon, and that once all the stimulus packages kick in the industry will be back to where it once was,'' Mr. Magliano said. ''But it's clearly going to take longer than anyone envisioned.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Katsuaki Watanabe of Toyota announced the loss Monday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KATSUMI KASAHARA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); INVENTORIES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (77%); PLANT CAPACITY (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (72%); PLANT CLOSINGS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); SALES PLAN (70%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (74%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (74%); TM (NYSE) (74%); 7203 (TSE) (74%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (74%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008



847 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: For HSBC, Questions Of Vitality

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr. and JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Through more than a year of giant bailouts and bankruptcies, HSBC was one of the few big banks to emerge with its reputation largely intact. 
 HSBC, the global financial giant, did bet on subprime mortgages -- and lost. But it nonetheless managed to maintain a robust market value compared with its diminished peers, lending it an aura of unrivaled durability. 
 So much so that during a recent parliamentary debate in Britain, where HSBC is based, an opposition politician scorned the government's borrowing policies by asserting that Britain's creditworthiness had fallen behind that of HSBC. 
 Now, as the bank faces a sharp slowdown in the emerging markets where it earns the bulk of its profit, many investors are questioning HSBC's ability to maintain this exalted standing. 
 Last week, HSBC shares listed in London sank more than 17 percent, hit by several analysts' reports contending that the bank would be required to raise money or to cut its dividend sharply. On Monday, HSBC shares in Hong Kong fell 3.3 percent, after falling more than 9 percent late last week. In addition, there was the acknowledgment that HSBC might have lost the $1 billion it had invested with Bernard L. Madoff, the New York money manager who authorities say has confessed to running a $50 billion Ponzi scheme.
 As banks throughout the world face uncertain futures amid the worst financial crisis since the Depression, HSBC -- which spans the globe from its original home in Hong Kong to the Middle East, Latin America and North America -- offered a vivid counterpoint. 
 Its share price outpaced the main indexes and still trades near its book value. Its assets are growing, with the $2.3 trillion on its books expected to grow by almost 20 percent this year. 
 Not only has the bank spurned government money, it has been -- at least so far -- one of the few financial institutions of size not to be required to raise capital. 
 But with the recent drop in its shares, HSBC's critics are raising questions about the bank's globe-girdling strategy, particularly its insistence on sticking with its struggling consumer finance unit in the United States. 
 HSBC gets three-quarters of its profit from emerging markets, which have underpinned its recent success. But three-quarters of its loans are still exposed to the stricken markets of the United States and Britain, which some investors argue will hold it back, after the global economy recovers. 
 HSBC became the world's top subprime lender when it bought Household International in the United States in 2003. According to Knight Vinke, a small asset manager in Monaco that owns less than 1 percent of the bank's shares, the parent group has injected $60 billion into HSBC Finance -- including the purchase price of $15 billion -- in a so far fruitless bid to turn around this flagging business. According to its research, the money would be better deployed in faster-growing emerging markets. 
 A spokesman for HSBC disputed the figure, saying the total amount was about $20 billion. 
 Knight Vinke argues that HSBC should leave this business and focus on its core area of expertise in Asia. 
 ''There are steps to be taken, but if all else fails, you may have to walk away from it,'' said Glen Suarez, an executive at Knight Vinke. 
 ''We see HSBC's comparative advantage being in developing its business in Asia,'' he said. ''We have always felt that subprime and Household International was a problem.'' 
 In a report produced this year, Knight Vinke said that HSBC had been overly optimistic in assessing the risk of its subprime exposure and that if the bank were to take a write-down reflecting the full reality of its potential losses, it could total as much as $30 billion -- a number that would require the company to raise cash. 
 HSBC declined to address Knight Vinke's assertions publicly, saying the firm's small investment position undermined its credibility. 
 Still, bank executives and board members have met with Knight Vinke as it pressed its position. 
 HSBC's position is that its subprime loans, while substantial, are different from those of most other banks because they are not bundled into complex -- and at this point nearly worthless -- securities like those that forced Merrill Lynch, Citigroup and others to take large losses. As a result, management argues, HSBC is not obliged to write down these assets as long as they produce a cash flow. 
 The bank has also said that it is a global institution, with a need to be in markets from Shanghai to St. Louis, and that it considers the United States housing market to be a crucial part of its strategy. It also said that writing off its investment in HSBC Finance would do lasting damage to its reputation. 
 As its rivals took their lumps, HSBC maintained a healthy cushion against losses of about 8 percent, a conservative position compared with the greater leverage of other banks. But now that troubled institutions like Barclays, the Royal Bank of Scotland and Citigroup have raised large sums of equity to bolster their balance sheets and enjoy the explicit or implicit support of national governments, HSBC no longer looks so secure. 
 What is more, the advancing slowdown in HSBC's core emerging markets franchise is putting additional pressure on its earnings.
 HSBC has said that its capital position was strong, but declined to comment on the recent reports predicting that it would seek a capital increase, which would dilute the value of existing shares. It has been careful to leave open the possibility of raising new funds in conjunction with a deal, or a major investment in a business. 
 For all the new questions, Julian Chillingworth, chief investment officer at Rathbones in London, said HSBC remained a refreshing contrast to an industry that seemed to lose its head in the housing bubble. 
 ''It may well be that they have to raise capital, but there's a much better chance for them to get support,'' he said. ''They didn't commit the sins of others of relying on the wholesale markets, and they've been quite prudent.'' 
 HSBC executives are by and large an austere, conservative lot, compared with their more expansive counterparts. Their attitude toward the banking excesses has been one of polite disdain as they turned down opportunity after opportunity to buy into the American investment banking market. 
 It is an approach that conveys a degree of rectitude not often seen in bankers these days. The self-denying tone flowed from the top, conveyed by the bank's former chairman, John Bond. 
 His successor, Stephen Green, spare and unobtrusive, carries on this tradition, serving as an ordained priest in the Church of England. 
 He is also the author of a book titled ''Serving God? Serving Mammon?'' that wrestles with the idea of being a man of faith in the City of London. 
 Still, the bank has not been immune to temptation -- witness the $1 billion it is likely to have lost from extending loans to funds that invested with Mr. Madoff's firm. 
 There are signs, too, that the bank may be on the verge of some major decisions -- particularly with regard to its troubled American business. 
 John Thornton, the former president of Goldman Sachs and a man known for his aggressive strategic thinking, joined the group board this month. He will also serve as nonexecutive chairman of HSBC North America -- a position that will require him to work two days each week and will pay him $1.5 million a year. 
 It is not clear what, if any decision will be taken. Even with its recent troubles, the firm's position is strong enough to support a midsize deal, especially for a bank with a strong position in the American Hispanic market, an area that has long been of interest for HSBC.
 And analysts say that even HSBC cannot stay above the troubles around it. 
 ''I'm surprised the shares have done so well in relative terms,'' said Daniel Tabbush, an analyst at Credit Lyonnais Securities, who wrote one of the reports that precipitated the stock sell-off. 
 ''Now, we're looking at the exposure to commercial U.K. real estate, the unsecured loan book, credit cards. Many banks around the world said they don't have to raise capital, and then they do.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephen Green is the chairman of HSBC Holdings. HSBC has maintained a robust market value compared with its peers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE PLUNKETT/REUTERS)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); DIVIDENDS (68%); PONZI SCHEMES (66%); GREAT DEPRESSION (65%)

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); HSBC FINANCE CORP (51%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (51%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (51%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008



848 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: Families With Children in City Shelters Soar to Record Level

BYLINE: By TRYMAINE LEE

 BODY:
The number of homeless families with children entering New York City shelters hit a record high last month, climbing more than 40 percent from the same period last year, according to figures released on Monday by the Department of Homeless Services. 
 The total number of homeless families living in the municipal shelter system at the end of last month also hit a record high of 9,720, the highest number since the city began reporting such data more than 25 years ago, according to the Coalition for the Homeless, an advocacy group that analyzed the city's monthly report on homeless services. The coalition and city officials attributed the increase to the recession. In November, 1,343 families were accepted into the shelter system, about 43 percent more than the 935 who moved into shelters in November of last year, according to data released by the department and by advocates for the homeless who analyzed city statistics.
 The trend began before November. Comparisons between the fiscal years that ended on June 30, 2007, and June 30, 2008, show a 40 percent increase in homeless families and a 29 percent increase in adults who sought the refuge of the shelter system.
 The Department of Homeless Services reported that 9,442 homeless families were living in the municipal shelter system on the final day of November. The coalition's figure of 9,720 includes the homeless who are living in shelters provided by the housing department and Homeless Services. 
 The number of homeless people living in the city's shelters has continued to climb well into the Bloomberg administration's five-year plan, announced in 2004, to cut homelessness by two-thirds.
 Robert V. Hess, the commissioner of homeless services, said in a prepared statement released on Monday night that the rising number of people accommodated by the system showed its strength.
 ''The fact that D.H.S.'s system is withstanding the test of recent high demand through difficult economic times and harsh weather conditions is evidence that the agency has successfully reformed our infrastructure and put a solid groundwork in place,'' Mr. Hess said in the statement. 
 The city's dire financial straits have contributed to the rise in homelessness, according to a spokesman for the Coalition for the Homeless, who added that the issue could be compounded by ''draconian'' cuts proposed by Gov. David A. Paterson in city funds for homeless prevention. 
 ''The recession in New York is unfortunately just beginning, but already we have surpassed the all-time record high of family homelessness in New York City,'' Mary Brosnahan, the executive director of the coalition, said in a statement.
 The statement said that in each of the last five months, the numbers of new homeless families entering the shelter system have been the highest since the city started collecting data on the system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (94%); HOMELESSNESS (93%); ANIMAL WELFARE (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CITIES (78%); TRENDS (77%); CITY LIFE (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008



849 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 516 words

 BODY:
A GLOBAL AUTO SLUMPToyota says its vehicle business will lose money this year as the downturn's grip on the worldwide auto industry tightens, forcing automakers to cut production as they adjust to declining sales. 
 Foreign-based automakers selling cars in the United States have not proved immune to the problems plaguing Detroit. [B1.]
 ADJUSTING TO BAGGAGE FEES Baggage fees are less of a headache for business travelers than many expected. ''Business travelers tend to be among those that are more likely to qualify for exemptions, either through premium status or traveling on a full-fare ticket,'' said Tim Smith, a spokesman for American Airlines. [B1.]
 Federal aviation authorities are trying to trim the number of flights at La Guardia Airport to reduce congestion. [B3.]
 POSSIBLE TROUBLE FOR HSBC With HSBC facing a slowdown in the emerging markets where it earns most of its profit, many investors are questioning the bank's ability to avoid the worst of the global financial crisis. [B1.]
 ACCUSATION INVOLVING INDYMAC Two months before IndyMac Bank collapsed last July, a Treasury department investigator says a top federal banking regulator allowed the bank to backdate a capital infusion and gloss over its growing problems. [B1.] 
 SURGE IN HANDMADE GIFTS Some holiday gift-givers are making their own presents or buying handcrafted gifts from others -- a trend bolstering sales at retailers like Michaels Stores. [B1.]
 A TEST FOR CHINA Economic volatility is on the rise in China. Can the Chinese manage it? Breaking Views. [B2.] 
 STAKE SOLD IN MEDIA COMPANY The Sina Corporation, one of China's biggest Internet portals, will acquire a large part of Focus Media, one of the biggest advertising and digital media companies in China. [B3.] 
 DID YOU WIN? CHECK TWITTER The contest company Publishers Clearing House is moving into the digital age by asking contestants to check Twitter or their iPhones to see if they've won. [B3.]
 THE GREEN AIRLINE Emirates Airline wanted to reduce its carbon emissions, so it flew what its chairman called the ''world's first cross-polar green flight.'' On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [B7.] 
 PINING FOR HIS COUCH After a long and eventful tour, all John French, the lead guitarist for Twisted Sister known as Jay Jay, wanted to do was get home and lie down on his couch. Frequent Flier. [B7.]
 STIMULUS PLAN FOR INDONESIA Indonesia, which has been battered recently by the global economic turmoil, is embarking on an economic stimulus plan and tighter bank supervision. [B4.]
 China cut interest rates while Japan warned that it was slipping into a deeper recession. [B6.]
 TOYOTA SENDS DOWN MARKETS Toyota's announcement that it would lose money in its vehicle business for the first time in 70 years dragged down Wall Street. [B5.]
 EXPANSION COSTS WALGREEN The drugstore company Walgreen said its profit fell 10 percent in the first quarter because of costs to open more than 200 stores. [B2.]
 PAY CUTS AT CATERPILLARCaterpillar, the mining and construction equipment maker, plans to reduce executive pay because of declining demand. [B2.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); RETAILERS (77%); AIRPORTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); AIR FARES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); BANK FAILURES (72%); TRAVEL TICKETS (71%); CIVIL AVIATION (70%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%); BANKING LAW (67%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); EMISSIONS (50%)

COMPANY: SINA CORP (82%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); PUBLISHERS CLEARING HOUSE (53%)

TICKER: SINA (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008



850 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: For Craft Sales, the Recession Is a Help

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Feeling the pinch of the economic downturn, some holiday gift-givers are saving money this year by making their own presents or -- for those who lack the time or talent -- buying handmade gifts from others.
Craft stores, from giant chains like Michaels Stores to small scrapbook supply shops, are reporting that sales are higher compared with the last holiday season, and online marketplaces for handmade goods, like Etsy, are seeing a boom in listings and transactions.
Sales at Scrap, a craft supply store in Portland, Ore., were up 33 percent in November compared with the year before. The shop's customers have made a menorah out of yellow plastic bottle caps, Christmas tree ornaments from wood samples and calendars from fabric and paper collages, according to Sarah Dyer, the manager.
''A lot of people are doing a do-it-yourself Christmas, because of the economic downturn but also wanting to make their lives more sustainable, making stuff as opposed to buying more stuff,'' she said. 
The boom in crafts and related supplies contrasts with poor results for traditional retailers, like electronics retailers and department stores. The nation's overall retail sales in November fell 7.4 percent from the year before, according to the Commerce Department.
The craft sector, which has about $5.9 billion in annual revenue, is ''operating in its own little niche,'' said George Van Horn, a senior analyst at IBISWorld, a research firm. ''The number of establishments is growing.''
Last year, 42 million households gave handmade gifts, according to the Craft & Hobby Association, a trade group, and that number is expected to increase greatly this year, its spokesman, Victor Domine, said.
''Across the country, people are crafting more,'' he said. ''With the recession, people are looking for ways to save money, and doctors are recommending it as a major form of stress relief.''
Elizabeth Ludington, a 25-year-old paralegal in Rochester, N.Y., is one of those who chose a do-it-yourself Christmas. She works for a nonprofit legal aid group that she fears could suffer from a downturn in grants. ''I looked at my bank account and budget and realized I didn't have a lot of cash,'' she said.
She usually spends about $20 on each of 10 friends and relatives for stationery, bath products or spa gift certificates. This year, she is stitching cable-knit coffee sleeves to use instead of the cardboard ones at coffee shops. They will cost her $1 each to make and an hour of her time after work while she watches TV at night.
''I wanted something that was affordable but still meaningful and kind of fun,'' she said.
Michaels Stores, the chain of craft retailers owned by the Blackstone Group and Bain Capital, hopes that a holiday spike in sales will make up for weak results earlier in the year. For the quarter that ended Nov. 1, the company reported a net loss of $20 million and a decrease of 6.5 percent in same-store sales. But in November and December, Michaels' 1,014 stores have had sharp increases in traffic and transactions for small-ticket craft supplies, said Brian C. Cornell, the company's chief executive.
Michaels does not release monthly sales data, and Mr. Cornell declined to discuss specific numbers. However, he said that premade holiday and home decorations, which tend to be more expensive, are not selling well. Less expensive craft supplies, which generally account for 41 percent of revenue, are moving briskly, and sales have been particularly strong for supplies used to make jewelry, baked goods, scrapbooks and decorated clothing.
Michaels has shifted its marketing strategy to take advantage of the trend. The company created an advertising campaign called ''Endless Creativity, Endless Savings'' to market craft supplies for handmade gifts. It started a Web site, Where Creativity Happens, with videos on how to make gifts like picture frames and candles, and it held free weekly in-store workshops.
''We're certainly seeing much better results than we would have anticipated,'' Mr. Cornell said. ''There's a much greater interest right now in how you decorate your home and create your own gifts yourself.''
Jo-Ann Stores, the craft supply leader with a 19 percent market share, has had a similar pattern. Though same-store sales fell 1.5 percent in the quarter ending Nov. 1, sales of sewing and craft supplies, which account for half of revenue, were stable that quarter and have climbed this quarter, said Lisa Greb, a Jo-Ann spokeswoman.
The cost savings for handmade gifts can be significant. At Jo-Ann, the supplies to make a child's apron and chef hat cost $7.90 for fabric designed with gingerbread men, iron-on letters to spell ''chef'' and elastic. Making a hand-knit throw costs $40 for nine skeins of yarn and $6 for knitting needles; a similar-looking item at Pottery Barn costs $129.
Jeanne Nevin, the owner of Stampingly Yours, a scrapbooking store in Clifton, N.J., said the last few months have brought her many new customers buying scrapbooks, paper, decorations, inks and rubber stamps.
''It's because nobody has money,'' she said. Making a scrapbook is an inexpensive alternative to buying a gift. ''It's not like they give a gift, use it up and get rid of it. It's stuff they can keep forever.''
Even people who do not have the time or inclination to create their own gifts are shunning big-box stores to buy handmade gifts directly from artists, in part to save on the margin in retail stores.
On eBay, people bought 13,137 handmade crafts over the last 60 days for an average price of $8.21, and sales of handmade crafts climbed 34 percent, the company said.
On Sept. 29, a day the stock market plunged sharply, Etsy, the leading Web marketplace for handmade goods, had record sales. In November and December, the site has continued to break records. Last month, artists sold $10.8 million of goods on Etsy, up from $4.2 million in November 2007. Some 135,000 people signed up for Etsy memberships and sellers listed 1.1 million new items, both figures more than double the same month last year.
Some Etsy merchants have had such unexpectedly high sales this season that they are shutting down early because they do not have time to make any more gifts.
Dennis Anderson of Citrus Heights, Calif., was prepared for a 50 percent increase in sales of his soaps, which are handmade from ingredients like olive oil, pomegranate and Pabst Blue Ribbon beer. Instead, orders climbed 300 percent. He said he has sold 6,000 items in the last three months, and he has been working 15 hours a day, seven days a week, to meet the demand.
''I wasn't expecting this much with the economy the way it is, but I realized it's probably one of the factors in the increase,'' he said. Customers ''can knock out 12 people by getting 12 bars of soap for $60 instead of spending $30 a person.''
Apart from the lower cost, handmade gifts have a nonfinancial value that appeals to many buyers.
''I just like the fact that I'm supporting someone who's trying to make their way in the world by using their talents, and my money is going directly to a person instead of a chain of middlemen,'' said Christy Petterson, a jeweler in Atlanta who co-edits GetCrafty.com and has bought handmade gifts this season. ''For the same amount of money, the specialness factor is way higher. It's more heartfelt than if you bought something from a big-box store.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shoppers at a Michaels store in Pleasant Hill, Calif.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B1)
Michaels Stores is hoping that a holiday spike in sales of craft goods will make up for weak results earlier in the year.
 Dennis Anderson, left, pouring soap into molds in his apartment in Citrus Heights, Calif. Demand for the handwrapped bars has surged in the last few months.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); SEWING & CRAFT STORES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (72%); LEGAL AID (66%); PARALEGALS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (72%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



851 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Passengers Learn to Live With Airlines' Bag Fees

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
Americans seem to be enamored of change these days. And despite the cries of protests when airlines started charging for checked luggage, it seems baggage fees are a change we can live with after all.
 With winter weather causing major disruptions at airports across the nation, air travelers are still facing challenges. But the bag fees proved to be less of a headache than many expected, especially for business travelers. 
 ''Business travelers tend to be among those that are more likely to qualify for exemptions, either through premium status or traveling on a full-fare ticket,'' said Tim Smith, a spokesman for American Airlines, who added that the new policy had caused few bumps. 
 ''By all accounts it's gone smoother than we anticipated,'' he said. ''Our biggest concern was that we might see people trying to take things that were inappropriate as carry-ons, but it hasn't been a big problem.''
 About half of American's domestic passengers check luggage. But the average number of checked items has fallen from 1.2 per customer to less than one bag, mostly due to fewer people checking two bags, Mr. Smith said.
 Luggage fees have settled at around $15 for the first checked bag and $25 for the second one, each way.
 Most airlines waive their luggage fees for elite frequent fliers, passengers in first or business class, customers who purchase full-fare economy tickets and those traveling on government or military fares.
 In addition, Continental gives customers who use its co-branded Chase credit and debit cards one free checked bag, and that benefit is extended to anyone listed in the same reservation as the card holder who checks in at the same time.
 Other airlines offer discounts to passengers who pay their luggage fees online: Spirit Airlines gives $10 off the first checked bag to those who prepay on its Web site, while United is offering a 20 percent discount on its first bag fee to customers who pay online through Jan. 31, 2009. 
 So far, Alaska Airlines, JetBlue and Virgin America are among the holdouts that still allow passengers one free checked bag, while Southwest still allows two free checked items.
 But passengers who do not fall into any of the privileged categories can still avoid fees. How? 
 Travel light. 
 As obvious as it sounds, traveling light -- the old-fashioned obsession of many a frequent flier to reduce frustration -- can reduce fees as well. Some frequent fliers have gotten packing light down to a science.
 ''I had a trip to Germany and I was very proud of myself because I was able to do it with just a carry-on,'' said Brian Lynch, who works for a manufacturer based in Elmsford, N.Y.
 Since he has elite status, Mr. Lynch's packing light has nothing to do with fees, but with fear. In 2004, his checked luggage was lost 17 times.
 ''I applied to the Guinness Book of World Records,'' he said. ''But I didn't get it because until I recognized that this was an amusing pattern I didn't save any of the receipts.''
 Although he always got his luggage back, he became a convert to the carry-on-only credo.
 Like many of his breed, he dreaded that the new luggage charges would cause cabin chaos but he hasn't experienced that problem.
 ''Maybe the airlines have just insulated their best customers,'' he said.
 Perhaps not all their best customers. Nick Pandher, who works in sales for a technology company near Los Angeles, disagrees. 
 ''The overheads are really crowded,'' he said. ''I've seen many flights where they're ready to close the door but they have to deal with bags.''
 Mr. Pandher said he travels with only a carry-on, packing half the clothes he needs and relying on laundry services to get through longer trips. 
 He also avoids checking the demonstration kit he takes to client meetings, opting to ship it rather than dealing with the airport inconvenience and airline fees -- which can be $100 or more extra for an oversize or overweight bag.
 ''We just use FedEx now,'' he said. ''It's $200 but we don't have to worry about it getting there or schlepping it through the airport.''
 Indeed, the slow handling of checked luggage seems to be more of a deterrent than the fees, which most business travelers can put on their expense accounts anyway.
 ''If they're going to charge people to check baggage, they need to guarantee some kind of timeliness,'' Mr. Pandher said.
 Another frustration for passengers is increased scrutiny of the number and size of carry-on bags.
 Brian Warner and his wife were passing through security at San Francisco International Airport in November when an employee -- who was not wearing an airline or Transportation Security Administration uniform -- asked his wife to prove her rolling suitcase was within the size limit by placing it in a metal template.
 ''It had inches to spare,'' Mr. Warner said. ''It was mildly annoying.''
 Although he and his wife have elite status and would sometimes prefer to check luggage without charge, they generally don't, as a result of having waited 45 minutes at the carousel in Seattle. 
 ''We've traveled as long as a month just with carry-ons,'' he said. ''We'll go to those lengths just to avoid checking because of those nightmares.''
 Corey Caldwell, a spokeswoman for the Association of Flight Attendants, said the extra carry-ons were proving to be a problem for flight attendants who ''have to work harder to make sure that they fit in the overhead bins.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A sign at the American Airlines counter in San Francisco International Airport listed new fees for checked bags.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAGGAGE HANDLING (92%); AIR FARES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); DEBIT CARDS (69%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (66%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); SPIRIT AIRLINES INC (53%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%); SAVE (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008



852 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: A Race To The Bottom

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Toward the end of an important speech in Washington last month, the president of the American Federation of Teachers, Randi Weingarten, said to her audience:
 ''Think of a teacher who is staying up past midnight to prepare her lesson plan... Think of a teacher who is paying for equipment out of his own pocket so his students can conduct science experiments that they otherwise couldn't do... Think of a teacher who takes her students to a 'We, the People' debating competition over the weekend, instead of spending time with her own family.''
 Ms. Weingarten was raising a cry against the demonizing of teachers and the widespread, uninformed tendency to cast wholesale blame on teachers for the myriad problems with American public schools. It reminded me of the way autoworkers have been vilified and blamed by so many for the problems plaguing the Big Three automakers. 
 But Ms. Weingarten's defense of her members was not the most important part of the speech. The key point was her assertion that with schools in trouble and the economy in a state of near-collapse, she was willing to consider reforms that until now have been anathema to the union, including the way in which tenure is awarded, the manner in which teachers are assigned and merit pay.
 It's time we refocused our lens on American workers and tried to see them in a fairer, more appreciative light.
 Working men and women are not getting the credit they deserve for the jobs they do without squawking every day, for the hardships they are enduring in this downturn and for the collective effort they are willing to make to get through the worst economic crisis in the U.S. in decades.
 In testimony before the U.S. Senate this month, the president of the United Auto Workers, Ron Gettelfinger, listed some of the sacrifices his members have already made to try and keep the American auto industry viable.
 Last year, before the economy went into free fall and before any talk of a government rescue, the autoworkers agreed to a 50 percent cut in wages for new workers at the Big Three, reducing starting pay to a little more than $14 an hour. 
 That is a development that the society should mourn. The U.A.W. had traditionally been a union through which workers could march into the middle class. Now the march is in the other direction.
 Mr. Gettelfinger noted that his members ''have not received any base wage increase since 2005 at G.M. and Ford, and since 2006 at Chrysler.''
 Some 150,000 jobs at General Motors, Ford and Chrysler have vanished outright through downsizing over the past five years. And like the members of Ms. Weingarten's union (and other workers across the country, whether unionized or not), the autoworkers are prepared to make further sacrifices as required, as long as they are reasonably fair and part of a shared effort with other sectors of the society.
 We need some perspective here. It is becoming an article of faith in the discussions over an auto industry rescue, that unionized autoworkers should be taken off of their high horses and shoved into a deal in which they would not make significantly more in wages and benefits than comparable workers at Japanese carmakers like Toyota.
 That's fine if it's agreed to by the autoworkers themselves in the context of an industry bailout at a time when the country is in the midst of a financial emergency. But it stinks to high heaven as something we should be aspiring to.
 The economic downturn, however severe, should not be used as an excuse to send American workers on a race to the bottom, where previously middle-class occupations take a sweatshop's approach to pay and benefits.
 The U.A.W. has been criticized because its retired workers have had generous pensions and health coverage. There's a horror! I suppose it would have been better if, after 30 or 35 years on the assembly line, those retirees had been considerate enough to die prematurely in poverty, unable to pay for the medical services that could have saved them.
 Randi Weingarten and Ron Gettelfinger know the country is going through a terrible period. Their workers, like most Americans, are already getting clobbered and worse is to come.
 But there is no downturn so treacherous that it is worth sacrificing the long-term interests -- or, equally important -- the dignity of their members.
 Teachers and autoworkers are two very different cornerstones of American society, but they are cornerstones nonetheless. Our attitudes toward them are a reflection of our attitudes toward working people in general. If we see teachers and autoworkers as our enemies, we are in serious need of an attitude adjustment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); MERIT PAY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); AUTOMAKERS (68%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (84%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008



853 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Caterpillar to Cut Its Managers' Pay

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Caterpillar Inc., the mining and construction equipment maker, said Monday that it would cut executive compensation by up to 50 percent next year because of weakening global demand. 
 Pay for senior managers also will be reduced next year by 5 to 35 percent, the company said. Other management and support staff members will see a reduction of up to 15 percent.
 Caterpillar, based in Peoria, Ill., said the cuts reflected planned reductions in its incentive program and equity-based compensation. It has instituted a hiring freeze and plans to suspend merit increases for managers and support employees.
 American-based management and support employees were also being offered incentives to leave voluntarily, the company said. Eligible employees have until Jan. 12 to join the program.
 ''We understand these decisions will disrupt the lives of many of our employees and their families, and we regret the need to take these steps,'' the chief executive, James W. Owens, said in a statement.
 The announcement was the latest cost-cutting measure by the company, which has laid off employees and cut contract workers in response to the global economic turmoil that has hurt demand for its products.
 The company said Monday that it would continue to carry out cost-saving measures, including temporary factory shutdowns and more layoffs as needed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (91%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); MERIT PAY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (76%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%)

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (97%)

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (97%); CATR (PAR) (97%); CAT (SWX) (97%); CAT (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (97%)

PERSON: JAMES W OWENS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PEORIA, IL, USA (74%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008



854 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Closes Lower As Toyota Foresees Loss

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Wall Street markets finished lower Monday after the Japanese automaker Toyota Motor said it expected to post its first operating loss in more than 70 years. 
 After losing as many as 170 points, the Dow Jones industrial average partly recovered to close down 59.34 points, or 0.69 percent, at 8,519.77, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index finished 16.25 points, or 1.83 percent, lower at 871.63. The Nasdaq composite index fell 31.97 points, or 2.04 percent, at 1,532.35, pulled down by falling prices of technology companies like Apple, Cisco Systems and Google. 
 Mining operations, energy producers and companies that manufacture products like chemicals, plastic and metals fell the most on Monday, weighed down by sliding commodities prices and weakening industrial output across the world. 
 ''I would not take my eyes off this thing,'' said Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at Standard & Poor's. ''You never know what's going to fall here. People are still pessimistic. They're still uncertain.''
 Shares of Toyota fell more than 6 percent in New York after it revised its financial estimates downward, saying it now expected an operating loss of $1.7 billion in the fiscal year that ends March 31. The weaker outlook underscored the size and scope of one of the worst economic downturns in decades. 
 Shares of the beleaguered automaker General Motors also sank, despite last week's announcement that G.M. and Chrysler would receive $13 billion in emergency federal loans. G.M. dropped back below $4 a share to close down 20 percent while Ford Motor, which has said it does not need federal aid at this point, was down more than 10 percent. Chrysler is privately held, with the private equity giant Cerberus Capital Management holding 80.1 percent.
 Crude oil prices for February delivery settled at $39.91 a barrel in New York, as the Saudi oil minister pledged that the OPEC cartel was determined to cut production to stabilize falling prices. Oil prices have tumbled from their record highs of $145 a barrel, reached this summer, and have pulled down the cost of gasoline and an array of raw and finished goods. Energy stocks fell on the lower oil prices.
 Shares of retailers like Ralph Lauren, Coach, Nike, Abercrombie & Fitch and Urban Outfitters also fell as worries grew that fierce snowstorms and biting cold would further depress an already grim holiday shopping season.
 Monday's declines aside, stock markets have historically performed well in the weeks around Christmas and New Year's Day, and investors were hoping that a small rally would ring out an otherwise devastating year on Wall Street, in which major stock indexes slid by more than a third. 
 Trading volume on the Dow on Monday was the lightest since the day after Thanksgiving, and is likely to stay low in a truncated week, making it difficult to extrapolate broader meanings from market movements over the holidays, analysts said. 
 ''All the market needs to go up is for things to stop getting worse,'' said Brian Gendreau, investment strategist at ING Investment Management. ''If people can see a light at the end of the tunnel and an end to the whole process, that's when things start to improve. The market could use a little relief here.'' 
 Shares of the Walgreen Company, the drugstore chain, fell 4.2 percent on Monday after the company reported that its net earnings decreased 10 percent in the quarter even as its overall sales in stores open at least one year ticked up 1.7 percent. Walgreen said it expected slower growth in 2009.
 The agricultural company Monsanto stumbled on Monday after being downgraded to neutral by analysts at Goldman Sachs, who said that falling seed prices and frozen credit would reduce earnings. Shares of Monsanto fell 7.45 percent.
 But signs of improvement continued to spring up in the credit markets. The TED spread, a closely watched measure of banks' willingness to lend, dropped to 1.48, its lowest level since mid-September, before the financial crisis brought lending to a near standstill. A lower spread is an indicator of loosening credit.
 The price of Treasury debt, which has soared over the last two months as investors sought a secure place for their money, fell slightly on Monday afternoon. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 14/32, to 114, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 2.17 percent, up from 2.12 percent late Friday.
 ''It was a good sign,'' said James Grady, director of fixed income trading at T. D. Ameritrade. ''It meant we'd begun to see some trust. You want to see those spreads come back down.''
 In London, the FTSE 100 index of leading British stocks finished down 0.88 percent while the DAX in Frankfurt fell 1.23 percent. The CAC index in France was lowest of the three, closing down 2.31 percent.
 Following are the results of Monday's Treasury auction of three-month and six-month bills and two-year notes:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Trading was light in a nearly deserted Wall Street on Monday, as a short holiday week started.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction.(Source: The Bond Buyer)
The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Charts detail line graphs for daily market activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); MINING OUTPUT (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); GASOLINE (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); CARTELS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (69%); PRIVATE EQUITY (67%); WEATHER (64%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (64%); RETAILERS (64%); CHRISTMAS (63%); THANKSGIVING (60%); MINES & MINING (55%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (90%); ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (80%); GOOGLE INC (57%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); URBAN OUTFITTERS INC (51%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (90%); F (NYSE) (90%); ANF (NYSE) (80%); AFT (FRA) (80%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%); GM (NYSE) (54%); URBN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (80%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (80%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008



855 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LONDON JOURNAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: The Doors Shut on an Emporium Offering a Hodgepodge of Essentials

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
It was not that its products were particularly exciting in themselves, or that its service was particularly attentive. But Woolworths was always there, a comforting part of the landscape, offering everything you wanted and more besides: ice trays and ironing boards; birthday cards and bars of soap; Play-Doh, pet food, paper clips and pajamas. 
 But all that is about to end. After trying unsuccessfully to find a buyer in a crashing economy, Woolworths announced last week that it was shutting its 807 stores in Britain for good, with the last one to close on Jan. 5. That will put 27,000 people out of work, news that is bad enough. 
 But there is a psychological loss, too. F. W. Woolworth closed in 2001 in the United States, reinventing itself as Foot Locker Inc., but the British company -- long separated from its American parent -- remained in Britain for a reason. It is a symbol of something, a vestige of a simpler past when the country had few department stores and no giant retailers, when shopping still seemed like a treat. 
 The simple act of walking inside the soon-to-be-gone Woolworths on Portobello Road in West London had a madeleine-like effect on a number of shoppers the other day, releasing a string of long-ago memories. 
 Woolworths, 27-year-old Nick Clinch said, was the treat he looked forward to more than anything on Saturday mornings as a child, clutching the precious 50 pence his parents gave him when they visited him at boarding school. Woolworths was where Tracy McManus's daughter, now a grown-up singer, bought her first hit single, ''Into the Groove'' by Madonna, having been introduced to it on the television show ''Top of the Pops'' that very day. 
 And it was where the young Lena Smith took her pennies and spent them on the luridly colored candy known as Pic 'n' Mix, feeling independent and flush with consumer power. 
 ''All we had was Woolworths,'' said Ms. Smith, now 50 and carting around a basket stuffed with items, including a dozen polka-dot mugs and a horse-themed 2009 calendar. ''It was the first big shopping place for us. It was our shopping experience.'' 
 The store was packed and had the feeling of a house whose inhabitants had not quite moved out, or a gravely ill patient at the end of life: half there but half gone. 
 Banners around the store proclaimed with fake cheeriness that it was ''Woolworths Biggest Sale Ever.'' The crowds had come to take it in for the last time, but also to pick over the detritus, to see if they could find a final bargain in the chaotic jumble. 
 Ceramic vegetable peelers, candles that change color as they burn, ironing boards, metal garbage cans, thermoses, closed-circuit television cameras, de-icers, hair-straightening irons, bread bins, rubber bands, shower-curtain hooks, CDs, cans of paint, children's underwear, wrapping paper -- all displayed seemingly at random, all just an aisle or two away. 
 That quality of haphazardness has always given the store a certain charm, but it was a charm of the past, and it was not for everyone. 
 ''Let's be clear about the demise of Woolworths,'' wrote Julia Finch in The Guardian last week. ''It was not caused by Gordon Brown, or the credit crunch. It was caused by failing to attract enough shoppers to spend money. It was the result of being a horrible place to shop, which offered nothing that wasn't cheaper or better elsewhere.'' 
 And in truth, Mr. Clinch, the former boarding-school student, said that nostalgia was one thing and practicality was another. 
 He pointed to a shelf crammed full of unrelated, slightly seedy items, like mugs printed with cupcakes. ''Look at how there's all this tatty, broken stuff on the shelves,'' he said. ''It's chaos here, and it's not just because it's closing. It's always been like that.'' 
 But to others, that was part of its ineffable charm. 
 ''It was just someplace you could come and get all those odd things -- shoe polish, curtains, mops, safety pins, paintbrushes, pillowcases,'' said Georganne Uxbridge, 56, waiting in line for the checkout counter and pushing her heavy shopping basket along with her foot. She had already bought ''masses'' on an earlier trip, she said, and felt slightly uneasy, benefiting from such obvious misfortune. 
 ''To be honest, I feel like a bit of a vulture,'' she said. She tossed a box of Bailey's Irish Cream truffles, displayed near the toasters close to the checkout counter, into her basket. ''I feel -- well, sad.'' 
 So did Dolores Crummy, who was looking at the children's clothes (toddlers' fleeces: 50 percent off) and found herself struck by something like conscience, or nostalgia, or an inchoate combination of the two. 
 Alarm, too, at this tangible manifestation of the precarious state of the economy.
 ''As long as I've been alive, there's always been Woolworths,'' said Miss Crummy, who remembers shopping there as a child in Northern Ireland during the decades of ''the Troubles.'' 
 ''It symbolizes longevity and memories that go a long way back, and it's a sad reflection of the times that an old, established firm like this has gone to the wall,'' she said. 
 Her eyes grew moist and she said she felt, finally, unable to buy anything. 
 ''I suppose I just wanted to be here at the end,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Woolworths announced last week that it was shutting down its 807 stores in Britain for good, with the last one to close on Jan. 5.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW PARSONS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (56%)

COMPANY: FOOT LOCKER INC (84%)

TICKER: FL (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (84%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (84%)

PERSON: MADONNA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008



856 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Slow Going For Teixeira Means Others Are Waiting

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT

 BODY:
Felipe Lopez is a 28-year-old journeyman second baseman who has a .262 career batting average. Two weeks ago, he quietly signed a one-year, $3.5 million contract with the Arizona Diamondbacks. 
 That deal is noteworthy now because Lopez is the only client of the agent Scott Boras who has signed a free-agent contract this off-season.
 Boras, the game's most prominent agent, is known for being patient in negotiations until the long-term, big-money deals appear. But two months into the off-season, nearly 20 other Boras clients who filed for free agency are still unsigned. That group -- which includes Mark Teixeira, Manny Ramirez, Derek Lowe and Oliver Perez -- includes many of the most talented players left on the market. 
 The combination of Boras's patience, team executives who are wary of the weakening economy, and the lack of movement in negotiations between Boras and teams for his premier client, Teixeira, has slowed the movement of the others. 
 Over the past five days, the negotiations for Teixeira have seemingly hit a rough patch, which has produced public statements from two potential destinations -- the Boston Red Sox and the Los Angeles Angels -- and Boras. The most recent statement came from Boras on Monday, a day after a spokesman for the Angels said that the team had ended its pursuit of Teixeira.
 Boras said Monday that Teixeira still had interest in re-signing with the Angels. And Boras went further and tried to discredit the notion that Teixeira was using the Angels to force other teams to increase their offers.
 ''Mark Teixeira enjoyed his time with the Angels and was an integral part of their success last season,'' Boras said. ''His interest in returning to the club has been sincere, real, and continues to be one of his earnest priorities throughout this off-season.''
 He added, ''We are assuming that reasons, other than Teixeira's interest in returning to the Angels, were the driving factor.''
 The Angels' decision to drop out of the negotiations came three days after the Red Sox' principal owner, John Henry, said in e-mail messages to several members of the news media that the team was impressed with Teixeira, but that ''after hearing about his other offers, however, it seems clear that we are not going to be a factor.''
 With teams dropping out of the bidding, or at least saying so, there is no clear path to a resolution for Boras and Teixeira. And, for that matter, there is no timetable for how quickly his other clients will sign.
 According to a person in baseball briefed on the discussions between Boras and several teams, the Red Sox remain interested in signing Teixeira to an eight-year contract that would pay him $168 million to $172 million. The person said that Boras had told several people in baseball that the Angels were still interested in Teixeira.
 The Washington Nationals and the Baltimore Orioles have offered Teixeira contracts for less money than the Red Sox and are still interested, the person said. On the outskirts are the Yankees, who continue to monitor the situation but are hesitant to offer more than $160 million over eight years for Teixeira after spending $243.5 million on C. C. Sabathia and A. J. Burnett. 
 Unless something happens quickly with Teixeira, it is likely that Lopez will enter January as the only Boras client to sign with a new team. Major League Baseball shuts down between Christmas and New Year's Day, although some agents and team executives continue to negotiate. That means that the high-profile players like Ramirez and Lowe and even the lesser-known ones like Willie Bloomquist and Alex Cora will remain uncertain of their 2009 destinations. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Felipe Lopez is the only Scott Boras free-agent client who has signed a deal.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AL BELLO/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (84%); BOSTON RED SOX (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (76%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008



857 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: Obstacle Seen In Bid to Curb Afghan Trade In Narcotics

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER; Eric Schmitt contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: KANDAHAR, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
A drive by the NATO alliance to disrupt Afghanistan's drug trade has been hobbled by new objections from member nations that say their laws do not permit soldiers to carry out such operations, according to senior commanders here.
 The objections are being raised despite an agreement two months ago that the alliance's campaign in Afghanistan would be broadened to include attacks on narcotics facilities, traffickers, middlemen and drug lords whose profits help to finance insurgent groups. 
 During a recent visit here, Gen. John Craddock, NATO's supreme allied commander, expressed surprise upon learning of what he described as a gap between the decision by alliance defense ministers to authorize aggressive counternarcotics missions and the lack of follow-through because of objections from several of the countries that make up the NATO force in Afghanistan.
 As the United States and its allies strive to devise a better strategy to stabilize and rebuild Afghanistan, American policy makers and military officers say it is critical to choke off the drug money that sustains the insurgency, much as they are working with Pakistan to halt the use of its tribal areas as a haven by the Taliban and other antigovernment forces just across the border from Afghanistan.
 Seven years after the rout of Al Qaeda and the fall of the Taliban in Afghanistan, disagreements over how aggressively NATO forces should go after the insurgency's chief source of revenue are only the latest hurdle in a campaign that has been troubled by disputes between the United States and some of its allies about what role NATO soldiers should play in a mission cast as ''security assistance.''
 The disagreements also present a major challenge for President-elect Barack Obama as he tries to fulfill a campaign pledge to shift the focus of the American military toward Afghanistan, where the United States remains much more dependent on foreign nations than it does in the Iraq war, which is largely an American conflict.
 The counternarcotics debate is a reminder of how unwieldy the alliance's military operations can be. United Nations figures show that Afghan insurgents reap at least $100 million a year from the drug trade, although some estimates put the figure at five times as much.
 In an interview, General Craddock said profit from the narcotics trade ''buys the bomb makers and the bombs, the bullets and the trigger-pullers that are killing our soldiers and marines and airmen, and we have to stop them.'' 
 NATO officials in Brussels declined to list the nations that have opposed widening the alliance mandate to include attacks on drug networks, and no nation has volunteered that it has legal objections.
 But a number of NATO members have in broad terms described their reluctance publicly, including Germany, Italy, Poland and Spain. Their leaders have cited domestic policies that make counternarcotics a law enforcement matter -- not a job for their militaries -- and expressed concern that domestic lawsuits could be filed if their soldiers carried out attacks to kill noncombatants, even if the victims were involved in the drug industry in Afghanistan.
 As has been the case in a whole range of combat operations mounted by NATO forces in Afghanistan, each country is allowed to state its reservations and opt out of missions that are viewed as too risky, either politically or militarily. Those ''caveats'' have been a source of enormous frustration to American commanders.
 That system of caveats was never intended to halt NATO operations; missions objectionable to one nation can be taken over by another nation's forces. But commanders say that legal objections to counternarcotics operations have prevented the international mix of troops across poppy-rich regions of southern Afghanistan from carrying out the new responsibilities.
 The NATO-led mission in Afghanistan has more than 51,000 troops, including 14,000 Americans. In a parallel mission, the United States has deployed 17,000 additional troops for a separate combat, counterterrorism and training operation.
 During a meeting of NATO defense ministers in Budapest in October, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and General Craddock successfully lobbied the alliance to give troops operating in Afghanistan official permission to mount attacks on narcotics ''facilities and facilitators supporting the insurgency.''
 Gen. David D. McKiernan, the senior American commander in Afghanistan, acknowledged that ''some of the precise language still needs to be worked out'' with allies that objected to taking on counternarcotics missions. 
 In an interview, General McKiernan stressed that the goal remained to approve rules of engagement that ''give us greater freedom of action to treat narco-figures and facilities as military objectives.''
 Halting the flow of drug money to the insurgency is just one of the challenges facing the Obama administration. Others include the 30 percent increase in insurgent violence over the past year, and the painfully slow growth and continued incompetence of the Afghan police.
 But General Craddock cited bright spots in the mission of NATO's International Security Assistance Force, including a growing number of people from other United States government agencies who are stepping in to help with economic and political development. He also noted the increasing size and professionalism of the Afghan National Army, which Afghans trust more than they do the office of the presidency.
 General McKiernan was put in charge of both the NATO and American operations this year, in an effort to provide more unity of command over the two missions. During a visit to Afghanistan last weekend, Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the Pentagon expected to provide 20,000 to 30,000 more troops to General McKiernan, with a significant portion of that increase arriving by next summer.
 Including the debate on how to battle the drug trade, much of the discussion about the way ahead in Afghanistan is similar to policy debates over the past seven years: the need to generate economic growth and build democratic institutions to inspire confidence among Afghans in their government.
 Although combat power alone will not defeat the insurgency and its allies in the drug trade in Afghanistan, military analysts say, a problem for years has been that Afghanistan has had too few resources because of the war in Iraq.
 ''What we need are more troops in Afghanistan because we need security, and eventually we will get a strategy,'' said Roger D. Carstens, a former Army Special Forces officer who now is a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security in Washington, which has provided a number of its analysts to the Obama transition team at the Pentagon.
 ''If the military cannot secure the population, then political development, economic growth and good government will not take place,'' Mr. Carstens added.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Afghan special police forces in a poppy field in the Zhari district in April, searching for Taliban fighters. Drug profits help finance the insurgency.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GORAN TOMASEVIC/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); DRUG POLICY (89%); NARCOTERRORISM (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); TERRORISM (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); AL-QAEDA (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (68%); IRAQ WAR (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (79%); GERMANY (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); POLAND (79%); SPAIN (78%); BELGIUM (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008



858 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Toyota Expects Its First Loss in 70 Years

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Toyota Motor, the Japanese auto giant, said Monday that it expected its first operating loss in 70 years, underscoring how the economic crisis was spreading across the global auto industry.
 On Monday, Toyota said it expected an operating loss in its auto operations of 150 billion yen, or $1.7 billion, for the fiscal year ending March 31. That would be the company's first annual operating loss since 1938, a year after the company was founded, and a huge reversal from the 2.3 trillion yen, or $28 billion, in operating profit earned last year.
 Analysts said Toyota's downward revision, its second in two months, showed that the worst financial crisis since the Depression was threatening not just the Big Three but also even relatively healthy automakers in Japan, South Korea and Europe. Many other companies will also soon be reporting losses. 
 Worse, analysts said that they expected next year to be even more painful, amid forecasts that the global economy would continue to slide until at least the summer. This could cause a significant shakeout, driving smaller and weaker companies into the arms of a smaller number of bigger, richer players.
 ''It is just a matter of time before all major automakers are losing money,'' an auto analyst in Tokyo for Credit Suisse Securities, Koji Endo, said. ''And things will just get worse next year, when companies start losing money for the second consecutive year.'' 
 Toyota, which just a few months ago seemed unstoppable after eight years of record profits, said it suffered from plunging vehicle sales not only in North America but also in once-promising markets like India and China, which many had hoped would prove immune to the United States malaise. Toyota's group includes the automaker Daihatsu and the truck builder Hino. 
 ''The change in the world economy is of a magnitude that comes once every hundred years,'' Toyota's president, Katsuaki Watanabe, told a news conference in Nagoya, Japan, near the company's Toyota City headquarters. ''We are facing an unprecedented emergency.''
 Mr. Watanabe said the company would respond by suspending investment in new plants, including last week's announced postponement in the start of a factory in Mississippi, and moving some production lines to single shifts. The company has even unplugged electric hand dryers at some offices in an effort to cut costs. 
 Yet Toyota said it still expected to report a small net profit, helped by interest and dividend income as well as tax-related savings of 50 billion yen, or $560 million. 
 With some $18.5 billion in cash, and relatively little debt, Toyota is still in far better shape to weather the downturn than General Motors and Chrysler, which on Friday received $17.4 billion in emergency loans from Washington. 
 In Japan, the recession could force a realignment of the country's eight automakers, which are globally competitive but have begun feeling increasing pain from the global downturn. 
 The biggest drops have come in the United States, traditionally the Japanese companies' most profitable market. After years of increasing market share at Detroit's expense, sales at Japanese companies are sharply lower. In November, Toyota's sales dropped 33.9 percent and Honda Motor's 31.6 percent, both faring slightly better than G.M., which had a 41 percent decline.
 Sales are also down in their home market of Japan, both because of the financial crisis and because of longer-term demographics in this rapidly aging society. Last week, an industry group announced that new car sales in Japan would drop next year below five million vehicles for the first time in 31 years. 
 Japan's automakers have responded by slashing production by 2.2 million vehicles in the current fiscal year. They have also cut profit forecasts, laid off nonstaff workers and delayed investment in new factories. Last week, Honda Motor, the nation's second-largest carmaker, reduced its profit forecast by two-thirds for the current fiscal year. 
 The auto slowdown has helped worsen an increasingly nasty recession in Japan's export-dependent economy, the world's largest after the United States. On Monday, Japan finance ministry said exports dropped 26.7 percent in November, the largest drop since statistics started being kept in 1980, to push the nation into a rare trade deficit for the month.
 The financial turmoil has also hurt carmakers by driving up the value of the Japanese yen, which has risen some 25 percent since summer. A higher yen makes Japanese autos and other products more expensive overseas.
 On Monday, Toyota cited the currency as one reason for revising its forecast. Analysts say Toyota has been seen as the most vulnerable of Japan's big automakers because it has been investing heavily in new products, including a full-size pickup truck for the United States market, just as auto sales started to fall.
 ''They've caught the same cold that Detroit has caught,'' said Christopher J. Richter, senior analyst in Tokyo at Calyon Capital Markets Asia. ''Everything is going wrong for Toyota this year.''
 Toyota also lowered its worldwide vehicle sales forecast for the fiscal year to 7.54 million vehicles, far below the 8.9 million vehicles it sold last year. It said the decline would be particularly large in North America, where it forecast it would sell 2.17 million vehicles this fiscal year, down from 2.96 million last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (74%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (91%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (91%); TM (NYSE) (91%); 7203 (TSE) (91%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); INDIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008



859 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Markets in Europe and Asia Mostly Lower

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stock markets in Europe and Asia mostly fell Monday in light pre-Christmas trading after the Japanese automaker, Toyota, issued its second profit warning in less than two months amid plunging car sales.
 In London, the FTSE 100 index of leading British shares was down 1.2 percent, while Germany's DAX was 1.8 percent lower. The CAC-40 in Paris also fell 1.8 percent.
 The losses in Europe were stoked by the warning from Toyota that it will likely post an operating loss of 150 billion yen ($1.66 billion) in the year to end-March, the first such loss since Toyota began reporting such numbers in 1941. 
 ''The markets are trying to digest the comments from Toyota. It wasn't the best of starts to the week for markets, I have to say,'' said Keith Bowman, equities analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown stockbrokers in London.
 On Wall Street, stock futures pointed slightly higher as investors searched for any signs of good news.
 With no economic data scheduled for Monday, and very little by way of corporate earnings expected this week, some analysts expect investors to wade back into the market in search of bargains as the year comes to a close.
 Light, sweet crude rose 34 cents to $42.70 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 In the markets, Toyota is perceived as one of the world's best manufacturers -- and if it is experiencing times as bad as it says, then others will likely fare even worse, the reasoning goes.
 Industrial orders data for the euro-zone earlier confirmed that manufacturing activity fell sharply in October and added to the evidence that the recession in the 15-nation single currency zone is deepening.
 Eurostat revealed that industrial orders plunged by a monthly 4.7 percent in October for a 15.1 percent year-on-year decline. Most countries posted declines including industrial heavyweights Germany and France.
 Earlier, Asian markets were mixed as Friday's announcement from the outgoing Bush administration to extend General Motors and Chrysler $17.4 billion in loans brought a measure of relief to some investors.
 But early gains in Asia soon faded amid worries about the American and global outlook, as well as shrinking demand for Asian-made products like cars and electronics that keep the region's economies growing, analysts said. In Japan, new figures showed a record 26.7 percent plunge in exports last month compared to a year ago.
 ''The big question about what's going to happen with the big U.S. automakers has been settled for now,'' said D. Gorton, research analyst at Louis Capital Markets in Hong Kong. ''But investors are still wondering what's going to happen with the U.S. and ... when the U.S. economy is going to recover.''
 Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index dropped 3.3 percent, while South Korea's Kospi dipped 0.1 percent. Singapore, Australia and mainland China benchmarks were each down over 1. 5 percent.
 Tokyo bucked the downward trend, with its Nikkei 225 stock average rising 135.26 points, or 1.6 percent, to 8,723.78 despite the latest bad news about the country's exports.
 Japanese investors seemed focused instead on the American auto industry bailout, helping buoy Honda 5.4 percent and Nissan 2.7 percent, and the country's recent efforts -- including an interest rate cut Friday -- to counter the recession.
 Last week in New York, Wall Street finished a choppy session mixed. The Dow fell 25.88 points, or 0.30 percent, to 8,579.11, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.60 points, or 0.29 percent, to 887.88.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFIT WARNINGS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); EQUITY RESEARCH (88%); FACTORY ORDERS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); FUTURES (79%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); STATISTICS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); MONETARY UNIONS (63%)

COMPANY: HARGREAVES LANSDOWN PLC (69%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%)

TICKER: HL (LSE) (69%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (69%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%) EUROPE (94%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (93%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008



860 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: Japan Frets As Key Rates Fall in China

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
China trimmed interest rates on Monday as Japan warned that it was sliding deeper into recession after exports and business sentiment tumbled. 
 The People's Bank of China sought to fend off a deepening economic slowdown, though the cut was smaller than many analysts had expected. The bank cut benchmark one-year lending and deposit rates by 27 basis points -- to 5.31 percent and 2.25 percent respectively -- a far cry from its last move, when it slashed rates by 1.08 percentage points at the end of November.
 Analysts said the move to bolster growth in the world's fourth-largest economy looked timid compared with action taken by the Federal Reserve and Japan in cutting rates almost to zero last week.
 Ken Peng, economist with Citigroup in Shanghai, said analysts had expected the bank to go further, given the action in the United States and by other central banks around the world.
 As China moved to spur the economy, the Japanese government lowered its assessment of the economy for the third consecutive month, citing rapidly falling output and corporate profits as the country's economy, the world's second-largest, is gripped by recession.
 A record 26.7 percent plunge in exports, bigger than a 14.4 percent fall in imports, pushed Japan's once politically sensitive trade balance into a deficit of 223.4 billion yen ($2.48 billion) in November.
 ''The Japanese economy is deteriorating and for the time being its conditions are likely to become more severe,'' said Masaaki Shirakawa, the governor of the Bank of Japan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING IN CHINA (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%)

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (93%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (59%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (59%) EAST CHINA (59%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (59%) CHINA (97%); JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008



861 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: In Budget Crises, California and Other States Reluctantly Halt Road Projects

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER; Rebecca Cathcart contributed reporting.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
With cars whizzing behind him along one of Southern California's most congested and detested freeways, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger warned Monday that the state was ''on a track toward disaster'' as it ceases highway, school and bridge construction because of budget and credit woes.
 California, which has suspended nearly $4 billion in public works projects, is one of a half dozen states delaying or halting projects because of capsizing budgets, an inability to attract investors to the municipal bonds used to bankroll many projects and a reduction in gasoline tax revenues -- which underlie a lot of transportation financing. 
 The American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials has identified 5,000 transportation projects nationwide that lack the dollars to proceed; many of them, like the $730 million project here to add 10 miles of high-occupancy-vehicle lanes to the 405 Freeway -- Mr. Schwarzenegger's backdrop on Monday -- have been stopped midstream.
 ''They just haven't been able to find the resources,'' Tony Dorsey, the spokesman for the association, said of the halted projects.
 More than 40 states are struggling with revenue shortfalls, and lawmakers across the country are cutting, taxing and pleading their way toward solvency. Fixing bridges, expanding highways and other infrastructure projects have faced the same fate as government entitlement programs, state jobs and other items. 
 Jeffrey Caldwell, a spokesman for the Virginia Department of Transportation, said, ''Projects not currently under construction or significantly far in the development process were either delayed or completely removed from plans for future construction.'' 
 In addition to the weak economy and lower gasoline tax revenues, states are ''concerned about the market and cost of debt,'' said Scott D. Pattison, the executive director of the National Association of State Budget Officers in Washington
 In fact, there has been very little interest among institutional investors in municipal bonds since the financial markets began to collapse this fall, and states have had to rely on individual investors -- far less plentiful and reliable than institutional investors -- to buy bonds. 
 Right after Washington cobbled together its plan to bail out banks, California, which uses bonds to pay for projects as well as to cover its short-term cash needs, sold $5 billion in notes, and 80 percent of the buyers, rather than the typical 30 percent, were individuals. 
 Last month, when the state tried to restructure existing debt with an additional $523 million offering, it had to reduce the offering by two-thirds, said Tom Dresslar, the spokesman for Bill Lockyer, the California treasurer. 
 ''The institutional investor interest was nil,'' Mr. Dresslar said.
 Further, the State Legislature's inability, with the governor, to figure out a way to deal with the state's $15 billion budget gap has weakened the market's confidence in California, something other states could face if the fiscal situation deteriorates. 
 This month, Standard & Poor's downgraded the $5 billion in revenue bonds issued by California last month and put more than $50 billion of debt on watch for a downgrade. 
 ''The bottom line is we are not viewed as a quality investment,'' Mr. Dresslar said, adding that California is not in position to offer the sort of fat interest rates needed to get offerings off the ground. 
 California and other states are clearly holding out hope that President-elect Barack Obama will pump some federal money into the stalled infrastructure projects, and some may even be delaying work until they have a chance to make the case for federal spending. Mr. Obama has proposed a stimulus package intended to create or save three million jobs, largely through financing infrastructure improvements. 
 ''It happens to be that the Obama administration wants to rebuild America,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger, a Republican, said at a news conference here. 
 Steve Swartz, a spokesman for the Kansas Department of Transportation, said most projects in that state scheduled for December and January had been suspended because of uncertain financing.
 ''We're hopeful, keeping our fingers crossed like every other state, that a stimulus package will come through,'' Mr. Swartz said. ''If it does, we'll be in good shape.''
 In the meantime, some states might think twice about proclaiming great calamity in the face of crumbling infrastructure, high unemployment and lack of state financing, said Matt Fabian, director of Municipal Market Advisors, an independent consulting firm. 
 The strategy might attract the attention of the federal government, but it does little to entice investors in municipal bonds.
 ''We have seen over the last three months that every bridge is about to collapse, every highway is a danger and every hospital is full of anthrax,'' Mr. Fabian said. ''By putting out a lot of headlines about those issues, local governments are undermining the only base we have left. There is no institutional demand for municipal bonds, so we are relying completely on individuals, and individuals get scared by those headlines.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, which has delayed $4 billion in road works.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); FUEL TAX (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (72%); BANK FAILURES (72%); BAILOUTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (62%); GOVERNORS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF STATE HIGHWAY & TRANSPORTATION OFFICIALS (57%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008



862 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: At House Party on Health Care, the Diagnosis Is It's Broken

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: VIENNA, Va. 

 BODY:
When a dozen consumers gathered over the weekend to discuss health care at the behest of President-elect Barack Obama, they quickly agreed on one point: they despise health insurance companies.
 They also agreed that health care was a right; that insurance should cover ''everything,'' not just some services; and that coverage should be readily available from the government, as well as from employers.
 Those were the conclusions of a house party held here in Northern Virginia at the home of Karima Hijane and Theodore A. Kolovos, information technology consultants who have been married for seven years. It was one of more than 4,200 such events being held around the country from Dec. 15 to 31, as part of an experiment in grass-roots politics and policy-making, to provide recommendations to the president-elect. 
 ''We have to keep the momentum going,'' said Ms. Hijane, 34, who was a volunteer in the Obama campaign and is active in women's health advocacy. ''We are not lobbyists. We are simple citizens. We want to make sure that our voices are heard and that health care is reformed.''
 One of the people seated around Ms. Hijane's dining room table, Bruce D. Chatman, worked for I.B.M. for 29 years. Corporations, he said, have too much influence in the legislative process and the health care system. He wants to counterbalance their power with the energy and passion of citizens lobbying for themselves.
 Mr. Chatman, a Chicago native who lives in Fort Washington, Md., said he had been inspired by Mr. Obama's book ''The Audacity of Hope'' and started working for his campaign as a volunteer in April 2007.
 ''I don't believe health care should depend on people making money,'' Mr. Chatman said. ''The profit motive has to be tempered, especially on the administrative side of the health care business.''
 Shiva S. Makki, an economist, complained that in many cases, insurers did not cover the costs of screening procedures and preventive care. 
 Dr. Lawrence M. Nelson, a scientist at the National Institutes of Health who emphasized that he was speaking as a private citizen, said: ''The incentives in the current health insurance system are upside down. The less care you provide, the bigger your profits.''
 Dr. Nelson said he liked Mr. Obama's proposal to create a new public plan, similar to Medicare, that would compete with private insurance companies.
 Alex R. Lawson, a volunteer in the Obama campaign now trying to build public support for Mr. Obama's agenda, said a public plan would give people a choice they do not have.
 ''A public insurance plan would not take anything away,'' Mr. Lawson said. ''It just adds another option.''
 After one speaker expressed a mild concern about too much involvement by the government, Mr. Kolovos said: ''Everyone is afraid of government bureaucracy. But what we have now, with the filing and adjudication of insurance claims, is also bureaucratic.''
 Several people at the health care forum said they were frustrated by the current arrangement under which health insurance is tied closely to the workplace. 
 Hamudi Almasri, a 35-year-old information technology consultant at a small company that does work for the Labor Department, said that when he changed jobs, he had to change health plans and doctors.
 ''If I change employers, why should it be such a hassle?'' Mr. Almasri asked.
 His wife, Li Yang, said: ''When I move from one doctor to another, my information is lost. In many cases, the doctors don't talk to each other. In a country where information technology is so advanced, there's no system linking all these doctors together. It's a hindrance to treatment.''
 Ms. Li said she and her husband ''had a few surprises'' when they started shopping for a better health insurance policy on their own.
 ''If we wanted a baby,'' Ms. Li said, ''insurers would not cover the maternity care if conception occurred within six months after we purchased the insurance. We were shocked.''
 In many cases, the standard individual insurance policy does not cover maternity care, though such coverage can be bought for an additional premium. Even then, some insurers stipulate that maternity benefits will be available only if a woman waits for a certain amount of time before becoming pregnant. 
 The Obama transition team asked for ''particularly poignant stories to highlight the need for health care reform,'' and such stories were abundant at the round table here.
 Mr. Almasri said that when his infant daughter had severe eczema, she had to wait several months to see a dermatologist in their H.M.O. network. By then, he said, ''the symptoms were all cleared up.''
 Ms. Hijane said she had gone from doctor to doctor for more than a year before she got correct diagnoses for premature ovarian failure and celiac disease, a digestive disorder.
 ''Instead of being able to focus on my health,'' Ms. Hijane said, ''I focused on insurance to cover the tests and treatments. Everything we did was designed to find a job with good health insurance.''
 The Obama transition team did not ask people how a new health care system should be financed, but several people here said that individuals and businesses should have to pay a small health care tax -- some preferred to call it a ''contribution'' -- so that everyone could be covered.
 Mr. Chatman said he expected insurance companies and others in the health care industry to resist many of Mr. Obama's proposals.
 ''This is warfare for the health care of our country,'' Mr. Chatman said. ''The question is, Will money win, or will the people win? If we lose, we'll be a second-class country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Karima Hijane, flanked by her husband, Theodore A. Kolovos, and Li Yang, needed a year to get correct diagnoses of illnesses. ''Instead of being able to focus on my health, I focused on insurance to cover the tests and treatments.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); INSURANCE (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MEDICARE (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (60%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008



863 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Moves to Bolster Role of State Department

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Even before taking office, Hillary Rodham Clinton is seeking to build a more powerful State Department, with a bigger budget, high-profile special envoys to trouble spots and an expanded role in dealing with global economic issues at a time of crisis. 
 Mrs. Clinton is recruiting Jacob J. Lew, the budget director under President Bill Clinton, as one of two deputies, according to people close to the Obama transition team. Mr. Lew's focus, they said, will be on increasing the share of financing that goes to the diplomatic corps. He and James B. Steinberg, a deputy national security adviser in the Clinton administration, are to be Mrs. Clinton's chief lieutenants. 
 Nominations of deputy secretaries, like Mrs. Clinton's, would be subject to confirmation by the Senate. 
 The incoming administration is also likely to name several envoys, officials said, reviving a practice of the Clinton administration, when Richard C. Holbrooke, Dennis Ross and other diplomats played a central role in mediating disputes in the Balkans and the Middle East. 
 As Mrs. Clinton puts together her senior team, officials said, she is also trying to carve out a bigger role for the State Department in economic affairs, where the Treasury has dominated during the Bush years. She has sought advice from Laura D'Andrea Tyson, an economist who headed Mr. Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers. 
 The steps seem intended to strengthen the role of diplomacy after a long stretch, particularly under Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, in which the Pentagon, the vice president's office and even the intelligence agencies held considerable sway over American foreign policy. 
 Given Mrs. Clinton's prominence, expanding the department's portfolio could bring on conflict with other powerful cabinet members.
 Mrs. Clinton and President-elect Barack Obama have not settled on specific envoys or missions, although Mr. Ross's name has been mentioned as a possible Middle East envoy, as have those of Mr. Holbrooke and Martin Indyk, a former United States ambassador to Israel.
 The Bush administration has made relatively little use of special envoys. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has personally handled most peacemaking initiatives, which has meant a punishing schedule of Middle East missions, often with meager results.
 ''There's no question that there is a reinvention of the wheel here,'' said Aaron David Miller, a public policy analyst at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. ''But it's geared not so much as a reaction to Bush as to a fairly astute analysis of what's going to work in foreign policy.''
 With so many problems, including Pakistan, Iran and Afghanistan, Mr. Miller said it made sense for the White House to farm out some of the diplomatic heavy lifting.
 In addition to the Middle East, one Democratic foreign policy adviser said, Mr. Holbrooke might be considered for an appointment as special envoy to Afghanistan and Pakistan, and possibly Iran. The adviser said the decision had not been made. 
 A transition official dismissed as ''speculation'' reports in Indian newspapers that Mr. Obama was considering appointing Mr. Clinton as a special envoy to deal with Kashmir issues. 
 But another transition official confirmed that Mr. Obama's foreign policy advisers were discussing the possibility of appointing a special envoy to India. Mr. Steinberg, who is the dean of the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas, would probably coordinate the work of any special envoys, the official said. 
 The recruitment of Mr. Lew -- for a position that was not filled in the Bush administration -- suggests that Mrs. Clinton is determined to win a larger share of financial resources for the department. A well-connected figure who was once an aide to Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill, Mr. Lew now works for Citigroup in a unit that oversees hedge funds.
 ''If we're going to re-establish diplomacy as the critical tool in America's arsenal,'' a senior transition official said, ''you need someone who can work both the budget and management side. He has very strong relations on the Hill; he knows the inner workings of how to manage a big enterprise.'' 
 The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the discussions were private, said Mrs. Clinton was being supported in her push for more resources by Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Mr. Obama's incoming national security adviser, Gen. James L. Jones Jr.
 For years, some Pentagon officials have complained that jobs like the economic reconstruction in Afghanistan and Iraq have been added to the military's burden when they could have been handled by a robust Foreign Service.
 ''The Pentagon would like to turn functionality over to civilian resources, but the resources are not there,'' the official said. ''We're looking to have a State Department that has what it needs.''
 Mrs. Clinton's push for a more vigorous economic team, one of her advisers said, stems from her conviction that the State Department needs to play a part in the recovery from the global financial crisis. Economic issues also underpin some of the most important diplomatic relationships, notably with China.
 In recent years, the Treasury Department, led by Henry M. Paulson Jr., has dominated policy toward China. Mr. Paulson leads a ''strategic economic dialogue'' with China that involves several agencies. It is not yet clear who will pick up that role in the Obama administration, although Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. is frequently mentioned as a possibility.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about steps being taken by Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton to build a more powerful State Department as she prepares to become secretary of state misstated, in some copies, the professional affiliation of Aaron David Miller, a public policy analyst who commented on Mrs. Clinton's efforts. He is with the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, not the Brookings Institution.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Susan E. Rice, the choice for United Nations ambassador, and Dennis Ross, a potential Middle East envoy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL J. RICHARDS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (75%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); SUSAN RICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008



864 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1591 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times, December 23, 2008

 BODY:
International
 WORLD'S SHINING IMAGE OF GHANA
 May Be Built on Low Expectations
 Many countries in Africa have moved within reach of democracy, and years ago this political migration seemed assured. But vote rigging, ethnic violence and openly ignored election results have stalled the faith in democracy's march. Ghana is often held up as a success story, but some of its citizens worry that this frequent lauding is more a sign of the low bar that outsiders have set for Africa than a reflection of Ghana's success. Page A6 
 IRAQI MINISTRY DROPS CHARGES
 Of 24 Held in Security Case 
 An Iraqi judge has dismissed charges against 24 men suspected of making fake badges and IDs to gain access to the Ministry of the Interior building, the agency said. The men were picked up during a raid of the building by President Nuri Kamal al-Maliki's special forces and are still in custody, a ministry official said. Page A8 
 U.N. TO PROTECT IRAQ FUNDS
 The United Nations Security Council passed a resolution protecting all Iraq's assets through 2009, from the billions in international claims racked up during Mr. Hussein's tenure. Iraq wants to ensure that all its funds are put toward recovery and stability. Page A8 
 IRAQ'S EFFORT TO EXPEL GROUP
 The People's Mujahedeen, an Iranian resistance group, condemned a renewed push by the Iraqi government to deport its 3,800 members. Analysts and Iraqi opposition leaders agree that this is a sign of the influence that Iran, a mostly Shiite country, has on the Iraqi government. Page A8 
 National
 YOUNG MUSLIMS BUILD SUBCULTURE
 Around Underground Book
 ''The Taqwacores,'' a blurry, photocopied novel about imaginary punk rock Muslims living in Buffalo, has become an underground sensation among young American Muslims. Its success has spawned a low-budget independent film based on the book, which criticizes American imperialism and Islam. PAGE A12
 SHUTTERED PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS
 Faced with budget shortfalls and an inability to attract investors, a half dozen states have delayed or stopped public works projects. PAGE A12
 OBAMA TO REPORT ON CONTACTS
 President-elect Barack Obama is scheduled to release an internal review of the communications that his advisers had with the office of Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich of Illinois, who is accused by federal prosecutors of trying to seek favors in exchange for filling Mr. Obama's vacant Senate seat. PAGE A14
 Impeachment Panel Hears Testimony A14
 A PICKY PRESIDENT-ELECT
 For the last 18 months, Anita Ellis has been feeding President-elect Barack Obama and Washington events. What does he like? Lots of fish and water, but no soda. And 225 Tuskegee Airmen, the elite black fighter pilots and crew members who fought during World War II, accepted an invitation to attend the inauguration, but may not all make it. The Caucus. PAGE A15
 SHARING CRUDITeS AND POLICY PLANS
 At the behest of Barack Obama, thousands of people are meeting to discuss health care at house parties and small gatherings around the country in a novel experiment in grass-roots politics and policy making. PAGE A14
 INVESTIGATORS REVIEW PLANE'S DATA
 Investigators said they found ''good data'' while reviewing the recorders from a Continental Airlines jet for clues as to why the plane slid off a runway in Denver on Saturday night while trying to take off for Houston. It was unclear whether the plane was airborne before it slid into a ravine and injured 38 people. PAGE A16
 Obituaries
 JAMES L. BEVEL, 72
 An outspoken adviser and confidant to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., he led one of the pivotal events of the civil rights movement, the so-called children's crusade in Birmingham, Ala., in 1963. His reputation was later marred by fringe political associations and by an incest conviction this year for having sex with a teenage daughter. PAGE B10
 Business
 GLOBAL STRATEGY BRINGS 
 HSBC Under Fire
 HSBC has managed to hold on to its reputation even as its rivals have floundered or filed for bankruptcy. But the bank does much of its business in emerging markets, which have slowed considerably, hurting HSBC's standing and its stock price. PAGE B1
 A DO-IT-YOURSELF HOLIDAY
 Feeling the pinch, many gift-givers are making their own presents or buying handmade gifts from others. Sales at craft stores and online marketplaces for handmade goods, like Etsy, are way up. PAGE B1
 U MAY HAVE ALREADY WON!!! :-)
 Publishers Clearing House has moved into the digital age by establishing a presence on Twitter and iPhones. It's an effort to woo young people who have no memories of the Prize Patrol vans carrying oversize sweepstakes checks. ''The whippersnappers may not necessarily be all excited about $1 million, but they would maybe be excited about guest starring on 'The Real World' or something like that,'' a PCH executive said. PAGE B3
 INDONESIA PROPOSES STIMULUS PLAN
 Asia's third-most populous country has fared relatively well during the current economic downturn. But in order to make sure the country avoids a fiscal crisis like the one that toppled its government in the 1990s, Indonesia's central bank said it was going to introduce a stimulus plan and tighten its oversight of its banks to make sure the country has the means to weather the global crisis. PAGE B4
 New York Report
 M.T.A RELEASES BUDGET PLAN
 And Invites Public Comment
 The Metropolitan Transportation Authority is considering plans that would raise the base subway and bus fare as high as $3, the 30-day MetroCard to $105 and bridge and tunnel tolls to $7 next year. The proposals were released in a notice for public hearings on the planned increases as well as an array of service cuts to close a projected $1.2 billion shortfall next year. PAGE A23
 A LONG-AGO WISH LIVES ON
 Over a century ago, Virginia O'Hanlon, a little girl who lived on the Upper West Side, wrote a letter to the New York Sun inquiring about the existence of Santa Claus. In response, the paper wrote an editorial affirming the importance of childlike wonder, and its recitation became a Christmas tradition. So moved was David Ippolito, that he began leaving letters each holiday season at the address where Virginia once lived, even though she and her house are long gone. Clyde Haberman, NYC. PAGE A25
 Arts
 HOLLYWOOD AIMS TO ADD 
 Another Dimension to Fear
 In an effort to breathe life into the moribund box office for horror movies, Hollywood studios are bringing back an old trick: 3-D. PAGE C1
 A MUSEUM ON THE BRINK
 The National Academy Museum is in dire straits. Its attempts to right the ship have misfired, as the recent proposed sale of some of its artwork was met with censure by the influential Association of Art Museum Directors, and an effort to sell one of its buildings has been hobbled by infighting. PAGE C1
 THE QUINTESSENTIAL ASHTON
 Alastair Macauley writes that two Fredrick Ashton works performed by the Sarasota Ballet, ''Les Patineurs'' and ''The Two Pigeons'' are perfect examples of his choreographic philosophy: Bend! More! PAGE C1 A REMINDER OF WAR'S HUMAN COST
 Melissa Fay Greene writes that Dana Canedy's memoir, ''A Journal for Jordan,'' is a powerful love story cut short by the war in Iraq, with a denoument worthy of Chekhov. PAGE C7
 Kosher-Pop Reggae at Webster Hall C8
 Sports
 BRINGING LIFE TO A GAME 
 That He Didn't See
 When the Reds pitcher Johnny Vander Meer pitched his second consecutive no-hitter in June 1938 at Ebbets Field, it was a witness-only event, as the Brooklyn Dodgers were banned from radio broadcasts. So when Red Barber, the revered Dodgers broadcaster, was honored by an industry group four decades later, he gave them a gift: calling the entire game from memory, even though hewasn't there. PAGE B17
 JETS' GAMBLE DID NOT PAY OFF ... 
 In the offseason, teams around the N.F.L. threw oodles of money at top-tier free agents, but they have seen meager returns on their investments. That's especially true of the Jets' Brett Favre, who has been a major part of the team's late-season collapse. PAGE B13
 AND NEITHER DID FAVRE'S
 With the Jets' season hanging in the balance on Sunday against the Seahawks, Brett Favre rolled the dice on a late fourth down and went for a big play when a safe, conservative one would have sufficed. It epitomized the way the Jets' season has gone. Harvey Araton, Sports of The Times. PAGE B11
 Editorial
 THE WORLD ACCORDING TO CHENEY
 It must be exhausting to rewrite history as much as Vice President Dick Cheney has done in a series of exit interviews. Some of his comments were self-serving spin. Others were simply dishonest. Page A28
 SO IS FISH SAFE TO EAT OR NOT?
 The federal government has been trying to persuade pregnant and breast-feeding women to limit their intake of fish because of mercury contamination. Now some federal scientists are arguing that the benefits outweigh any potential harm. Page A28
 Op-Ed
 BOB HERBERT
 Leaders of the teachers' union and the autoworkers' union confront the reality of the economic downturn and the need to safeguard their members' interests -- and dignity. Page A29
 JUDITH WARNER
 This columnist is resolved, this Christmas-and-Hanukkah-time, to be cheery and happy and hopeful. This despite the bad economy and everything else going on in the world. Page A29
 UP, UP AND GO AWAY
 In an Op-Ed article, Ann Hood, the author of ''The Knitting Circle'' and a former flight attendant, recalls the glory days of flight when she wore a Ralph Lauren uniform and offered three different menus -- in coach. Page A29

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); JUDGES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); BUDGETS (66%); BLAGOJEVICH CORRUPTION SCANDAL (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (64%); TESTIMONY (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (62%); WORLD WAR II (60%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (55%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) IRAQ (95%); GHANA (94%); AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008



865 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: The Roots of the Housing Crisis

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''White House Philosophy Stoked Mortgage Bonfire'' (''The Reckoning'' series, front page, Dec. 21):
 I am no fan of George W. Bush; surely he and his administration deserve blame for not stopping the practices of the housing crisis. But there is a long line all the way back to President Jimmy Carter, and the Community Reinvestment Act. 
 In fact, Congress, including the Democrats, and the Federal Reserve pushed banks and Wall Street to do whatever was necessary to pump up the home building industry. At the same time, both the House and the Senate, on both sides of the aisle, and the Fed pushed for even more deregulation concerning home mortgage lending practices. 
 Yes, President Bush had a role, but don't forget the instigators, authors and supporters of the lead-up to the crisis and almost 10 years of government-supported policies that ended in the housing crisis.
 John F. Dix President Business Development Index Columbus, Ohio, Dec. 21, 2008
 To the Editor:
 When one of President Bush's economic advisers says that the administration did the best it could ''with the information we had at the time,'' the statement indicates that the government would have done things differently, for example, monitor easy lending practices, if it had had more knowledge.
 But the article demonstrates that the administration was cool to information that opposed its strong emphasis on cutting back regulations and oversight.
 The lessons of the ancient Greeks are relevant today: seek the truth, recognize limits and pursue moderation.
 Brad Bradford Upper Arlington, Ohio, Dec. 21, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The push to increase homeownership started in 1994, triggered by the Clinton administration's aggressive enforcement of the Community Reinvestment Act. As your front-page graph shows, the rate of homeownership took off in a ''hockey stick'' pattern and grew in a straight line for 10 years until 2004, that is, for six years under President Bill Clinton and four under President Bush. 
 E. S. Savas New York, Dec. 21, 2008
 The writer is a professor of public affairs at Baruch College, City University of New York.
 To the Editor:
 Having just read the article regarding the White House participation in development of the nation's financial crisis, I am incredulous that it doesn't mention the roles of Representative Barney Frank, Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Alan Greenspan and others in their encouragement and protection of policies that contributed in such major ways to the crisis.
 Ray Demarest Incline Village, Nev., Dec. 21, 2008
 To the Editor:
 While the article pinning responsibility for the worldwide financial mess on the Bush administration is on the mark, it would be unfair to suggest that the administration or the Republicans did it single-handedly. 
 As ''A Champion of Wall Street Reaps the Benefits'' (''The Reckoning'' series, front page, Dec. 14) makes clear, New Yorkers in particular can thank our own senator, Charles E. Schumer, for his critical leadership in giving the Democrats their fair share of responsibility. 
 When the histories of this sad era are written, they will doubtless mention Senator Schumer as the man who made sure responsibility for the fiasco was truly bipartisan.
 Barry D. Rein New York, Dec. 22, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I refer you to ''Fannie Mae Eases Credit to Aid Mortgage Lending'' (Business Day, Sept. 30, 1999), which succinctly describes the impending crisis and the deliberate actions taken by Fannie Mae ''under increasing pressure from the Clinton administration.'' 
 The Clinton and Bush administrations did push homeownership, and Fannie Mae eagerly absorbed subprime mortgages. 
 Financial markets created new vehicles and products to sell these mortgages as investment-grade bonds. Home buyers seized on these opportunities to buy houses that they and we have since learned they could not afford. 
 Congress failed to oversee its agencies and resisted calls to tighten controls. 
 In short, there is no shortage of guilty parties who, with eyes wide open, led us into today's debacle.
 Arthur Stowe Milford, Conn., Dec. 21, 2008
 To the Editor:
 What irks me, as I try to get a loan, is that despite my credit score of 787 and a 35 percent down payment, not to mention a net worth of about a million bucks, the banks will not lend to me! I just want to borrow $287,000! 
 Hey, I didn't go bust and need a bailout. I have been soldiering along, working and saving, and now I've found a duplex to buy. The big shots who ran their banks into the ground, wasting taxpayer money and paying themselves big bonuses, won't lend to me? What are they, jealous?
 Caroline Collins Monrovia, Calif., Dec. 21, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANSLEY DAVIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); WRITERS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (77%); DEREGULATION (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CLASSICS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008



866 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Yankees Defy Recession to Reel In Another Star

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and JAY SCHREIBER

 BODY:
Continuing to spend money as if they were printing it, the Yankees on Tuesday reached agreement with the All-Star free-agent first baseman Mark Teixeira on an eight-year, $180 million contract that pushes the team's off-season expenditures within shouting distance of half a billion dollars.
 The signing underlines the Yankees' economic might as they move into a new stadium with the help of public financing and makes clear their willingness to remain aggressive spenders in the midst of a recession. 
 The signing, which was confirmed by a person in baseball with knowledge of the matter, will not be official until Teixeira (pronounced tuh-SHARE-uh) has a physical. Once it becomes official, the Yankees will have the four players -- Teixeira, Alex Rodriguez, Derek Jeter and the newly signed C. C. Sabathia -- with the largest contracts in the sport, at an overall cost of slightly more than $800 million. 
 The signing also means that the Yankees, whose 2008 payroll of $209 million dwarfed the competition, will now have a 2009 payroll that will probably be close to that amount and at least $50 million more than the next team on the list. 
 None of this, of course, guarantees that the Yankees are headed back to the World Series. Despite their payroll advantage, they missed out on the postseason in 2008 for the first time since 1993, and they have not been to the Series since 2003. In recent seasons, they have watched Boston emerge as baseball's most successful team, with the Red Sox winning two championships while spending a good deal of money, but nowhere near as much as the Yankees. 
 For weeks, the Red Sox were seen as the favorites to land Teixeira, a powerful 28-year-old switch-hitter who is also an excellent fielder. They had made him their prime target of the off-season and did not budge from their pursuit even as the Yankees closed in on two highly coveted starting pitchers, the left-handed Sabathia and the right-handed A. J. Burnett, signing them for a combined $243.5 million.
 Let the Yankees pay a fortune for pitching, the Red Sox seemed to reason. They would save their money for the safer bet, Teixeira, a player less likely than a pitcher to encounter a serious injury over the course of a long contract. Closing in on an apparent deal, John Henry, Boston's owner, and Theo Epstein, the team's general manager, traveled to Texas last Thursday to meet with Teixeira and his agent, Scott Boras.
 The Red Sox were believed to be offering a contract for perhaps eight years at a figure close to $170 million. Teixeira would become the big bat in the Boston lineup to replace the departed Manny Ramirez. But instead of an announcement that a deal had been reached, Henry sent an e-mail message to reporters in which he said the Red Sox were not going to be a factor in the bidding because of other, higher offers that Boras cited.
 Henry's message was perceived as more of a ploy than anything else, an attempt to call Boras's bluff that there were indeed better offers from one or more of Teixeira's other major suitors -- the Los Angeles Angels, the Washington Nationals and the Baltimore Orioles. 
 Boras is the most prominent agent in baseball and often the most confounding for teams to deal with. He aims high, battles for every last dollar, takes his time reaching agreements and often cites offers for his players that rival teams question.
 In turn, the Red Sox, under Henry, Epstein and Larry Lucchino, the team president, have developed a reputation as a team that spends but also draws a line in contract negotiations, regardless of the player involved.
 That unsentimental, even stubborn, stance led to the departure in recent seasons of two fan favorites -- Pedro Martinez and Johnny Damon -- and nearly led to the loss of a third, Mike Lowell.
 In this instance, the Red Sox continued talking to Boras about Teixeira and, according to The Boston Herald, increased their bid slightly. But that was about all Boston would do, even though it knew the risk involved in challenging Boras.
 Boras, meanwhile, proceeded to do what he has done in other standoffs -- he went to the Yankees, who until that point had not pursued Teixeira aggressively. As much as they appreciated his abilities, even they were leery of how much he would cost.
 But the Yankees are the Yankees, with resources others don't have, and as they saw the opening left by the Red Sox they started doing the math. They were the team that snared Damon from Boston in December 2005 with a four-year arranged by Boras, and by early Tuesday morning they were the team back at it with Boras again, negotiating for a player who has few, if any, flaws.
 The person with knowledge of the talks between Boras and the Yankees' general manger, Brian Cashman, said the deal was done by about 3 p.m., giving the Yankees a player who hit .308 last season with 33 home runs and 121 runs batted in while playing for the Atlanta Braves and the Angels. He will combine with Rodriguez to give the Yankees a revised, but still imposing, middle of the order. 
 For Cashman, the deal represents a quick, and adept, shift in strategy. He had emphasized pitching in the current off-season even though the 2008 Yankee lineup scored nearly 200 fewer runs than the 2007 version and even though two key hitters -- Jason Giambi and Bobby Abreu -- were leaving via free agency. But the addition of Teixeira should address any offensive concerns. 
 The Yankees will now have to brace for criticism from within baseball over their spending. ''At the rate the Yankees are going, I'm not sure anyone can compete with them,'' the Milwaukee Brewers' owner, Mark Attanasio, said in an e-mail message to Bloomberg News. ''Frankly, the sport might need a salary cap.'' 
 The Yankees are also likely to make roster moves in an attempt to absorb some of the cost of Teixeira's contract and attempt to keep the 2009 payroll under $200 million. With nearly $90 million coming off the payroll with the departures of Giambi, Abreu, Mike Mussina and others, the Yankees felt that was a realistic goal, and it still may be. 
 But to cut expenditures, the Yankees may have to consider trading Hideki Matsui, who is going into the final year of a four-year, $52 million deal, or the recently arrived Nick Swisher, who is due $21 million over the next three seasons.
 Another, more somber, option involves Andy Pettitte, to whom the Yankees have a standing 2009 contract offer of $10 million, a marked pay cut from the $16 million he made last season. It is possible the Yankees may withdraw that offer, say goodbye to Pettitte for the second time in the last five seasons and look for a cheaper option to fill out their rotation. 
 Even the Yankees, standing apart from the rest of baseball with their spending, are not averse to bargains.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The 28-year-old Mark Teixeira, a switch-hitting first baseman, was one of baseball's most coveted free agents. He batted .308 last season with 33 home runs and 121 runs batted in.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS CARLSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A16) CHART: Big Spenders: The Yankees have the four biggest current contracts in baseball.(Source: mlbcontracts.com) Chart details player contracts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); ATHLETES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%)

PERSON: DEREK JETER (58%); ALEX RODRIGUEZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (86%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008



867 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Loans on Distressed Properties Become a Burden and an Opportunity

BYLINE: By JULIE SATOW

 BODY:
When the New York developer Harry B. Macklowe acquired the Drake Hotel almost three years ago and began buying up surrounding properties, market specialists expected him to include the site in a mammoth luxury office development. 
 After the downturn in credit markets, however, Mr. Macklowe defaulted on his loans, and bidders are now vying for the Park Avenue site at fire-sale prices. 
 But the Drake site is not for sale directly. What is available is a $200 million mortgage for the swath of land, which covers a third of a city block between Park and Madison Avenues and 56th and 57th Streets. The buyer of this note will own a majority of the most senior piece of the debt, and so will most likely be paid back first should Mr. Macklowe have enough funds. If he defaults, the owner of the note will be in the best position to take ownership of the underlying property through a foreclosure. 
 This deal highlights a shift in the commercial real estate market, away from brick-and-mortar properties and toward the buying and selling of debt. ''We are expecting a flurry of deals like the Drake Hotel site, where it is the loan that is for sale, not the actual real estate,'' said Robert L. Freedman, the executive chairman of Williams Real Estate, a New York firm. The company is now creating a distressed-property group to handle such transactions. 
 During the real estate boom of recent years, developers increasingly used debt to finance their acquisitions. Now, with the market cooling, some of these borrowers are beginning to default. This is leaving lenders -- including banks, private equity firms and hedge funds -- in the position of owning the real estate. 
 Many lenders are looking to offload these loans because they need to cash out quickly, or because they are not in the business of selling real estate and lack the necessary resources and expertise. This means that commercial brokers, who regularly negotiated the acquisition and sale of properties, are now marketing mortgages and other loans. 
 ''I am being inundated with calls from banks who want to sell their loans,'' said David Schechtman, a senior director at the commercial brokerage firm Eastern Consolidated. ''In just the last few weeks, I have also collected a list of about 30 clients -- primarily high-net-worth individuals, long-established real estate families and small opportunity funds -- who want to buy up these loans.'' 
 As the market tumbles, the delinquency rate for bonds backed by commercial properties has surged. It measured 0.71 percent as of Dec. 5, compared with 0.26 percent a year earlier, according to the research firm Trepp L.L.C. While the actual number of defaults is still quite low, it is expected to increase. 
 ''Loans don't typically go into default immediately when there is a downturn in the market,'' said Robert Knakal, the chairman of the brokerage firm Massey Knakal. ''In the beginning, owners continue to make payments on their loans, hoping things will turn around, or if the loan is relatively new, it may have a significant interest reserve that is still carrying the note. So defaults on mortgages are a lagging indicator of market conditions.''
 Despite this delay, there are early indications of an increase in loan sales. ''Clearly, there has been a pickup in sales volume,'' said David F. Dorros, a managing director at CB Richard Ellis. 
 To handle this uptick, brokerage firms like Eastern Consolidated are expanding their distressed-debt teams. Some firms are also requiring that their real estate brokers get broker-dealer licenses, which allows them to sell financial instruments. 
 Cash-rich developers and wealthy individuals are maneuvering to take advantage of the shift. Some are buying performing loans, where the borrower is continuing to pay interest on the debt. In this case, the buyer acquires the loan at a discount, but continues to receive interest payments. Then, when the loan comes due, the buyer is paid back the full face value.
 Others are snatching up nonperforming loans, where the borrower has defaulted on the payments. In this case, patient buyers, including developers and private equity firms, may acquire the debt at a discount and eventually take ownership of the underlying real estate -- usually after court action. 
 This is the strategy that the New York developer Time Equities Inc. is pursuing. ''Rather than buying properties from conventional owners, we are looking to buy discounted debt on nonperforming properties,'' said Francis J. Greenburger, the founder of the firm.
 Time Equities is establishing a joint venture with the KOR Companies of Jersey City to buy nonperforming loans on land in the New York area, with an emphasis on New Jersey. It hopes to take ownership of the vacant sites at a discount, and develop them. 
 While there is a noticeable increase in this type of vulture investing, the buying and selling of commercial real estate loans is not a new strategy. CB Richard Ellis, for example, began a national loan sale advisory group five years ago.
 ''The business has become more visible now, but lenders have always understood it as a viable option to proactively manage their loan portfolios,'' Mr. Dorros said.
 In the current environment, however, the volume and complexity of deals are expected to be much greater than in the past because so many of the loans were grouped together and converted into bonds. 
 ''The cash bind that many lenders are in is much more acute today than in the early 1990s,'' when the previous major downturn in commercial real estate occurred, Mr. Knakal said.
 As the market grows accustomed to the sale of loans, many eyes will be trained on the Drake Hotel site. 
 ''It will set a floor price, establishing new benchmark metrics for the new economic realities,'' Mr. Freedman said. ''The Drake is just the tip of the iceberg; stay tuned, there is more to come.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert L. Freedman's firm in Manhattan is forming a group to handle loan sales. ''We are expecting a flurry of deals,'' he said.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008



868 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: November Home Sales Fell Faster Than Expected

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Home sales declined dramatically last month and housing prices posted their sharpest decline in four decades as a rapidly slowing economy discouraged many potential buyers from tip-toeing into the market.
 Sales of existing homes declined 8.6 percent last month, to a seasonally adjusted rate of 4.49 million, according to the National Association of Realtors, a trade association. The median price of a home fell 13 percent in November, to $181,300 from $208,000 a year ago. That was the lowest price since February 2004.
 ''They're about as god-awful as they can get,'' said Robert Barbera, chief economist at ITG. ''This is pretty breathtaking stuff.'' 
 The troubles plaguing the housing market, which is at the heart of America's financial crisis, are only multiplying as the broader economy deteriorates. Even though mortgage rates dropped after the Federal Reserve slashed interest rates to record lows near zero percent, economists said that housing would continue to lag as unemployment increases and the spiral of slumping consumer spending and waning industrial growth continues. 
 ''Housing dragged down the markets this summer,'' said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at Global Insight. ''Now it's the economy and financial markets that are dragging down housing.'' 
 The economy was shrinking over the summer and corporate profits were falling even before the financial crisis struck with full force. On Tuesday, the Commerce Department reported that the gross domestic product, the broadest measure of the economy, declined at an annual rate of 0.5 percent in the third quarter as corporate profit fell 1.2 percent.
 Analysts are forecasting that those declines will be followed by much larger decreases this quarter as the longest recession in a quarter century gains intensity.
 Stock markets dived into negative territory as investors took in the economic news. Just before the market closed, the Dow Jones industrial average was down about 100 points or 1.25 percent while the wider Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 0.8 percent. 
 Shares of major homebuilders such as Toll Brothers and Pulte Homes were trading lower. Sales of single-family homes dropped 8 percent from October to November while the sales of condominiums and co-ops fell an even sharper 13 percent, the Realtors association reported.
 The pool of unsold homes grew slightly to 4.2 million last month. At the current sales rate, it would take 11.2 months to burn off the excess inventory, which is up from a 10.3-month supply in October.
 The Commerce Department also reported that new home sales dropped to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 407,000 in November, from a downwardly revised rate of 419,000 in October. The median price of a new home sold in November was $220,400, down 11.5 percent from the period a year ago. It was the biggest year-over-year price decline since a 12.7 percent drop in March. Investors on Wall Street seemed to take the economic news in stride. 
 Housing values have plummeted since the peak of the market in July 2006, when the median home price was $230,200. But the housing bubble burst, sales declined, credit dried up and a flood of foreclosed homes hit the market, a combination of events that pulled median prices down 21 percent to their November levels.
 Still, some economists said that home prices will fall even farther before they dip low enough to entice potential home buyers. Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR, said that some parts of the country may only be halfway through such a retrenchment.
 ''You need to have a correction, you need to have an adjustment,'' Mr. Shapiro said. ''The faster it happens, the better.'' 
 Lawrence Yun, chief economist of the National Association of Realtors, said that 45 percent of all home sales in November were so-called ''distressed sales,'' meaning that the sellers faced foreclosure, or they were forced to sell their home for less than the value of the mortgage. That was slightly higher than the previous month. 
 ''It's probably the largest price drop since the Great Depression,'' Mr. Yun said. ''There needs to be some measure to counter this pessimism. Without housing market stabilization, it'll be very difficult for the economy to recover.''
 That trend is especially pronounced in regions of the country hit hardest by housing's boom and bust. In parts of Southern California, more than half of all houses sold in November had gone through foreclosure at some point in the last 12 months, according to MDA DataQuick, a real-estate research firm.
 ''Outside of distressed properties, the market is nonexistent almost,'' Frederick Cannon, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, said of the California market. ''You don't want to sell into it. Most people are saying, 'I'll just stay in this house.' ''
 In California's Riverside County, real-estate agent Gary Crutchley said that he had sold six homes in the last four months. Three were foreclosure sales, two were ''short sales'' in which homeowners sold to avoid a foreclosure, and one was a traditional sale -- a couple who had saved their money, and were now looking to buy into a distressed market.
 ''They're few and far between,'' Mr. Crutchley said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); NEW HOME SALES (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (74%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%)

COMPANY: PULTEGROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

TICKER: PHM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (52%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (52%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (52%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (52%)

PERSON: NARIMAN BEHRAVESH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008



869 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: CALENDAR

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT

 BODY:
Tastes of Prosecco
 It's not too late to pick up a bottle or two of Italian sparkling wines, including prosecco, Italy's moderately priced contribution to the celebratory toast. And to help you decide which one to buy, there will be a tasting of a half-dozen of them at Italian Wine Merchants, 108 East 16th Street, on Dec. 27 from 1 to 3 p.m. The cost is $50: (212) 473-2323.
 Uncommon Celebrations 
 Restaurants all over the city will be chilling Champagne and devising special menus for New Year's Eve, and it pays to make reservations as soon as possible. Most have two seatings, with the later one often pricier. Here are two places that are somewhat out of the ordinary.
 Fatty Crab, 643 Hudson Street (Horatio Street), does not usually accept reservations, but for Dec. 31 it will, for seatings at 7 and 10 p.m. An appetizer, all the spicy crab you can eat, a side, a dessert and a sparkling-wine toast will be $99 a person: (212) 352-3592. 
 A new Indian-fusion restaurant called At Vermilion, 480 Lexington Avenue (46th Street), will donate $10 a dinner to the American India Foundation, which supports programs for health and education in India. 
 The restaurant will have a seating from 5 to 8 p.m. for $125, and another from 8:30 p.m. to 3 a.m. for $200 a person; it will include a seven-course dinner, a fizzy cocktail and Bollywood-style entertainment. After 10 p.m., a drink and entertainment in the lounge is $45: (212) 871-6600.
 Organic, Please
 A four-course menu with wine to showcase organic farming in winter will be held Jan. 13 at 7 p.m. at Applewood, 501 11th Street (Seventh Avenue), Park Slope, Brooklyn. Products from Lucky Dog Organic Farm in Hamden, N.Y., will be featured, and its farmers, Richard Giles and Holley White, will be on hand. The cost is $85 plus tax and tip: (718) 788-1810.
 Out of the East
 A conversation about Asian dining in the United States, and how to understand an Asian menu and order from it, will be held Jan. 11 at 8:15 p.m. at the 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue. David Chang, an owner of the Momofuku restaurants; Steven Shaw, a food writer; and Jennifer 8 Lee, a reporter for The New York Times, will be on the panel moderated by Mike Colameco. Tickets, $27: www.92Y.org, (212) 415-5500.
 Countrified Veggies
 Vegetarian suppers sound just about right for early January, usually a time for cutting back on calorie and budgetary indulgences. On Jan. 13 at 7 p.m. and again on Jan. 17 at 11 a.m., there will be a hands-on class in making dishes like smoky black bean soup and garlicky broccoli rabe with chickpeas and creamy polenta. Jennifer Clair will teach in her farmhouse kitchen in Beacon, N.Y. Each class is two and a half hours. The fee is $50: (917) 803-6857, www.homecookingny.com. 
 The First Ingredient
 Perhaps it's time for a career change. But opening a restaurant? In this economy? Those considering such a move might first want to invest $350 and spend three days learning how to do it, on Jan. 16, 17 and 18 from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. daily at the Institute of Culinary Education, 50 West 23rd Street. If opening a food shop seems like a better idea, the school also has a course on that subject, Jan. 17 and 18 from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m., $220: (888) 958-2433, www.iceculinary.com. FLORENCE FABRICANT 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); WINE (90%); ORGANIC FOODS (86%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (78%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (73%); WRITERS (60%); MEAT FREE DIETS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (90%); INDIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008



870 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; WINES OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2107 words

HEADLINE: Let the Good Times Tiptoe

BYLINE: By ERIC ASIMOV

 BODY:
THE corks will pop as usual this holiday season, and the bubbly will froth over into the glasses. Toasts will be offered, and the good times will still roll, but perhaps in a more subdued fashion.
 Fewer of those bottles of sparkling wine are likely to be Champagne this December. All over the United States, people are spending less for wine, and aiming for a lower-key expression of seasonal joy. That means less Champagne.
 Partly, this is an economic decision. ''People are clearly trading down,'' said Jon Fredrikson of Gomberg, Fredrikson & Associates, a wine industry analyst in California. ''People are still drinking wine, but it's clearly at lower price points.''
 But emotions and appearances play an important role in the decision as well. Aside from a general shortage of celebratory occasions like mergers, closings, bonuses and office parties, many restaurateurs say that customers are avoiding even the appearance of celebration. 
 ''People just don't want to look extravagant today,'' said Paul Grieco, an owner of Hearth, Insieme and Terroir in Manhattan. ''They still want to drink, so they cut out the Champagne and go directly to whatever they're drinking with dinner.''
 After several strong years, Champagne sales in the United States began to slip in 2007 as the weak dollar caused prices to rise. About 21 million bottles were shipped to the United States in 2007, down 2 percent from 2006, and the drop became precipitous in 2008. Through August, sales were down 17 percent over the corresponding period last year, according to Sam Heitner, director of the Office of Champagne U.S.A., a trade organization, and that doesn't include the last three months of the year, when much of the Champagne is sold.
 ''We're in uncharted territory,'' he said.
 Recognizing the concern over spending, the wine panel recently tasted 25 sparkling wines priced $10 to $20, the sweet spot these days for good wine values. 
 We restricted ourselves to dry sparkling wines, while ruling out sparkling roses and reds. For the tasting, Florence Fabricant and I were joined by the husband-and-wife team of Scott Mayger, the general manager of Telepan on the Upper West Side, and Beth von Benz, a wine consultant.
 The good news is that outside of Champagne, just about any region in the world that makes wine makes sparkling wine, too. Among our 25 bottles were wines from France, Spain, Italy, Germany and Australia, as well as California, Washington state, New Mexico and Michigan. 
 Believe me, that's just the beginning. I've enjoyed good bottles from Austria, Massachusetts and Georgia (the country, not the state). 
 I did set one more parameter: no prosecco. I like prosecco, but I enjoy it best in spring and summer, when its sprightliness seems to match the season. I didn't rule out sekt, the sparkling wine of Germany, but maybe I should have. I've rarely met a sekt I've liked, and neither one in our tasting made our top 10. And I confess, I'm not much of a fan either of cava, the sparkling wine of Spain. One of the three in our tasting, the Reserva Heredad from Segura Viudas, made our top 10 at No. 9, though at $20 it was maybe not such a good value.
 Perhaps in a different context, say, a cafe in Frankfurt or tapas bar in Barcelona, these wines might have been more appealing. But when they were mixed in with a bunch of bottles made in the fashion of Champagne, with some proportion of chardonnay and pinot noir, the main grapes of Champagne, we preferred those bottles, wherever they came from.
 Our top bottle, the 2004 brut from Domaine Carneros, was, of course, from California. We found it elegant and delicious, and it just squeaked by two other far-flung bottles.
 Our No. 2, the Contadi Castaldi, was from the Italian region of Franciacorta, which produces some excellent Champagne facsimiles. This one was particularly dry and light-bodied, with aromas of herbs, spices and flowers. 
 And our No. 3 was a sparkling wine from Burgundy, the toasty, refreshing Parigot & Richard blanc de blancs, made mostly from chardonnay.
 While our price range was $10 to $20, most of the wines in the tasting were $15 to $20. One of the few exceptions, and the only one to make the list, was the Cremant de Limoux blanc de blancs from Domaine J. Laurens, which at $13 was our best value. 
 Habitues of the bargain aisle may be familiar with blanquette de Limoux, a sparkling wine from the same region in southern France. This is generally even cheaper than the Laurens, and usually made from the mauzac grape. The cremant is made of chardonnay and chenin blanc, which gives an added smoothness and elegance.
 Other Champagne-style wines that we liked included three more from California, the Roederer Estate, long a personal favorite of mine, as well as the Piper Sonoma and the Gloria Ferrer. 
 Two other French wines rounded out our top 10. La Cravatine from Fabrice Gasnier was an oddity, a sparkling Chinon made from the cabernet franc grape. It was nonetheless light and refreshing, as was our No. 10, the herbal-scented cremant d'Alsace from Lucien Albrecht, made from pinot blanc and pinot auxerrois. 
 Let's be honest, none of these bottles will match a very good Champagne. But they cost half what you would pay these days for the least expensive Champagne, and they were enjoyable. 
 Even so, they may all still cost more than many people are willing to spend. Mr. Fredrikson said the greatest growth right now is in bottles $6 and under, which includes mass-produced sparkling wines that in my opinion are not worth the money.
 There may be one bright spot for Champagne. Roberto Rogness, general manager of Wine Expo in Santa Monica, Calif., which offers an exceptional selection of sparkling wines, reports that even though cavas, cremants and other Champagne alternatives are selling ''by the boatload,'' Champagne sales seem to be holding their own. And Mr. Rogness is looking hopefully to next year.
 ''We're starting to get feelers for inauguration parties,'' he said.
 Tasting Report: They Aren't Champagne, but They Do Sparkle
 Domaine Carneros by Taittinger Carneros Brut 2004
 $20
 *** 
 Toasty, creamy, elegant and lively with flavors of apple and lemon. 
 Contadi Castaldi Franciacorta Brut NV
 $19
 *** 
 Dry and light with lovely floral, mint and spice aromas. (Importer: Blavod Extreme Spirits, Franklin, Tenn.)
 Parigot & Richard Cremant de Bourgogne Brut Blanc de Blancs NV
 $20
 ***
 Dry, refreshing with floral aromas and flavors of lime and brioche. (Willette Wines/A Becky Wasserman Selection, Manhasset, N.Y.)
 BEST VALUE
 Domaine J. Laurens Cremant de Limoux Brut Blanc de Blancs NV
 $13
 ** 1/2 
 Dry and textured with refreshing flavors of citrus and flowers. (Vigneron Imports, Oakland, Calif.)
 Roederer Estate Anderson Valley Brut NV
 $19
 ** 1/2
 Light, dry and Champagne-like with flavors of lemon and grapefruit.
 Fabrice Gasnier Chinon Blanc de Noir La Cravatine NV
 $17
 **
 Dry and frothy with lively citrus flavors. (Petit Pois/Sussex Wine Merchants, Moorestown, N.J.)
 Piper Sonoma Sonoma County Brut Blanc de Blancs Select Cuvee NV
 $17
 **
 Light and straightforward with flavors of lemon and apple.
 Gloria Ferrer Carneros Brut Blanc de Blancs 2004
 $20
 **
 Light and frothy with aromas of lemon, apple and mushroom.
 Segura Viudas Cava Brut Reserva Heredad NV
 $20
 **
 Bright and lively with herbal, floral and citrus flavors. (Freixenet, Sonoma, Calif.)
 Lucien Albrecht Cremant d'Alsace Brut Blanc de Blancs NV
 $20
 **
 Light and crisp with aromas of anise, tarragon and peach. (Pasternak Wine Imports, Harrison, N.Y.)
 Recipe: Pairings Tarte Flambee WithCaviar
 Even when finances whisper caution, a holiday gathering can hold its head high if there's a good sparkling wine on hand, and a little caviar. American farmed varieties, hackleback, or salmon or trout roe -- or even a glittering mound of tobiko, flying-fish roe -- can be found for $25 an ounce or less.
 For a party, I have put the caviar on a classic Alsatian tarte flambee. There is nothing flamed; the name is a corruption of the Alsatian term flammekeuche, a flatbread baked in a wood-burning oven with a topping of soft white cheese, onions and smoky bacon. 
 In Alsace, the Confrerie de la Veritable Tarte Flambee, a society of lovers of the dish, guards against heresies like mine: buckwheat in the dough and bacon exchanged for small dabs of whatever fish roe suits the budget and the palate.
 It's enough to horrify the confrerie but plenty to please your guests and show off the wine. 
 Time: 45 minutes plus 1 hour's rising
 1 packet active dry yeast
 4 1/2 tablespoons unsalted butter
 1 teaspoon salt
 2/3 cup buckwheat flour
 2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour (approximately)
 2 medium red onions, sliced very thin
 1 cup fromage blanc
 1/2 cup creme fraiche
 2 to 3 ounces caviar or other fish roe.
 1. Place yeast in a large bowl, add 1/2 cup warm water and set aside for 5 minutes. Melt 3 tablespoons butter. When yeast starts to froth, add salt, another
 1/2 cup water and melted butter. Stir in buckwheat flour. Add 2 cups all-purpose flour, a cup at a time, mixing until a ball of dough forms. Add a little more flour if necessary. Knead on a lightly floured surface until smooth, elastic and only a bit sticky. 
 2. Use a little remaining butter to grease a 3-quart bowl. Place dough in bowl, turning it to coat all sides with butter. Set aside to rise until doubled, about 1 hour. While dough rises, heat 1 tablespoon butter in a skillet on low and saute onions until golden. Set aside. 
 3. Preheat oven to 450 degrees. Use rest of butter to grease a large oblong baking sheet about 11 by 17 inches. Punch down ball of risen dough. Roll and stretch it to fit pan. Mix fromage blanc and creme fraiche together and spread on dough. Scatter onions on top. Bake until crust starts to brown, about 15 minutes. 
 4. Remove from oven and drop half-teaspoons of caviar over tarte. Cut in portions and serve. To make hors d'oeuvres, cut tarte in 2-inch squares, then put a dab of caviar in center of each. 
 Yield: 4 to 6 servings; or about 36 hors d'oeuvres.
 Recipe: Pairings Tarte Flambee With Caviar
 Even when finances whisper caution, a holiday gathering can hold its head high if there's a good sparkling wine on hand, and a little caviar. American farmed varieties, hackleback, or salmon or trout roe -- or even a glittering mound of tobiko, flying-fish roe -- can be found for $25 an ounce or less.
 For a party, I have put the caviar on a classic Alsatian tarte flambee. There is nothing flamed; the name is a corruption of the Alsatian term flammekeuche, a flatbread baked in a wood-burning oven with a topping of soft white cheese, onions and smoky bacon. 
 In Alsace, the Confrerie de la Veritable Tarte Flambee, a society of lovers of the dish, guards against heresies like mine: buckwheat in the dough and bacon exchanged for small dabs of whatever fish roe suits the budget and the palate.
 It's enough to horrify the confrerie but plenty to please your guests and show off the wine. 
 Time: 45 minutes plus 1 hour's rising
 1 packet active dry yeast
 4 1/2 tablespoons unsalted butter
 1 teaspoon salt
 2/3 cup buckwheat flour
 2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour (approximately)
 2 medium red onions, sliced very thin
 1 cup fromage blanc
 1/2 cup creme fraiche
 2 to 3 ounces caviar or other fish roe.
 1. Place yeast in a large bowl, add 1/2 cup warm water and set aside for 5 minutes. Melt 3 tablespoons butter. When yeast starts to froth, add salt, another
 1/2 cup water and melted butter. Stir in buckwheat flour. Add 2 cups all-purpose flour, a cup at a time, mixing until a ball of dough forms. Add a little more flour if necessary. Knead on a lightly floured surface until smooth, elastic and only a bit sticky. 
 2. Use a little remaining butter to grease a 3-quart bowl. Place dough in bowl, turning it to coat all sides with butter. Set aside to rise until doubled, about 1 hour. While dough rises, heat 1 tablespoon butter in a skillet on low and saute onions until golden. Set aside. 
 3. Preheat oven to 450 degrees. Use rest of butter to grease a large oblong baking sheet about 11 by 17 inches. Punch down ball of risen dough. Roll and stretch it to fit pan. Mix fromage blanc and creme fraiche together and spread on dough. Scatter onions on top. Bake until crust starts to brown, about 15 minutes. 
 4. Remove from oven and drop half-teaspoons of caviar over tarte. Cut in portions and serve. To make hors d'oeuvres, cut tarte in 2-inch squares, then put a dab of caviar in center of each. 
 Yield: 4 to 6 servings; or about 36 hors d'oeuvres.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MERE ALCOHOL: With fewer people getting kicks from Champagne, other sparkling wines step forward.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (85%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); BEVERAGE PRICES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); US DOLLAR (69%); SALES FIGURES (65%); PRICE INCREASES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (75%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008



871 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: A Divided Hollywood Actors' Union Regroups Before Voting on Strike

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
Facing internal strife over stalled contract negotiations, Hollywood's largest union decided late on Monday to postpone plans for a strike authorization vote and instead called for an emergency meeting of its national board in Los Angeles next month. 
 The abrupt change in plans by the Screen Actors Guild reflected fierce disagreements within it about the wisdom of seeking strike authorization during an economic recession. 
 In recent weeks scores of boldface-name actors have endorsed a petition urging members to reject a strike; many others have expressed support for the measure. The union has doubled down on an information campaign urging members to vote yes. 
 The authorization vote had been scheduled to begin with the mailing of ballots on Jan. 2, and was to last three weeks. Alan Rosenberg, the president of the union, said two weeks ago that approval of the strike authorization would send ''a strong message'' to the studios.
 But opposition to a strike has stifled the union's negotiating abilities. The actors' contract with the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers, which represents Hollywood's major production companies and studios, expired on June 30. 
 ''In light of the sharp and sudden opposition of so many of our members, it would have been reckless to go ahead without thinking twice,'' said Ned Vaughn, a leader in the union's Hollywood-based Unite for Strength faction.
 At a Jan. 12 meeting members of the union's national board plan to discuss how to ''address this unfortunate division,'' Doug Allen, the union's executive director and chief negotiator, said in a statement. 
 Mr. Allen said that ''almost 100 high-profile members'' and more than 2,400 others had supported the preparation to strike. But more than 1,500 actors have signed a petition opposing the vote, posted on NoSAGStrike.com. Several prominent actors, including John Cusack, George Lopez and Susan Sarandon, added their names to the petition last weekend, joining Tom Hanks, George Clooney, Glenn Close and others. About 120,000 workers belong to the union. 
 ''We support our union and we support the issues we're fighting for, but we do not believe in all good conscience that now is the time to be putting people out of work,'' the petition states. 
 A three-month strike by the Writers Guild of America brought entertainment production to a virtual halt last winter and delayed most scripted television production. With the awards season looming, the prospect of another winter strike has chilled many members. If 75 percent of voting members authorize a strike, union leaders could call for action at any time.
 ''I think the reason for the delay is simple: they don't think they're going to get the 75 percent,'' said Norman K. Samnick, a lawyer with Bryan Cave who has represented the studios in previous negotiations with the union.
 Mr. Allen said in the statement that the delay would give the union's leadership more time for ''member education and outreach.'' Although the plans could change, Mr. Allen said the strike authorization vote would begin immediately after the emergency board meeting. 
 The division does not help the union's effort to reach an agreement with the studios, Mr. Allen said in the statement. 
 Producers, meanwhile, have run newspaper advertisements questioning the wisdom of a strike vote, pointing out deals the studios have already reached with other unions. 
 ''We are proud to have made such important agreements even as the national economic crisis has worsened almost by the day,'' the studios said in a statement on Monday night.
 The actors' union and the studios are at odds over new terms for a three-year contract that would include payments for Internet videos and other forms of new media. Since the previous contract expired nearly six months ago, the financial crisis has created a new pressure point in the dispute.
 ''The negotiations have fallen into the economic trough that we're in,'' Mr. Samnick said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Supporter: Alan Rosenberg, the Screen Actors Guild president.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVE HOGAN/GETTY IMAGES)
 Opponents: John Cusack, left, Tom Hanks and Susan Sarandon are among about 1,500 actors, many of them prominent, who have signed a petition against authorizing a strike. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVE HOGAN/GETTY IMAGES), (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS JACKSON/GETTY IMAGES),( PHOTOGRAPH BY NASSER NURI/REUTERS) (pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (92%); STRIKES (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); PETITIONS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (88%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (79%); EXECUTIVES (74%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (60%)

COMPANY: MOTION PICTURE & TELEVISION FUND INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (84%)

PERSON: TOM HANKS (58%); GEORGE CLOONEY (58%); GEORGE LOPEZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008



872 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Freshly Unemployed, They Bravely Ask, What's Next?

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER. 
E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

 BODY:
First thing Tuesday morning, you could hear the tread of the unemployed across the carpeted floors in the state labor office.
 The woman who got laid off from a parenting Web site. A man who had been an assistant manager for Starwich, a sandwich chain that went belly-empty this year. Another fellow who hedged currency for a wholesale jewelry company as gold was becoming too valuable to be used for mere baubles. 
 Four times a day, the State Department of Labor holds mandatory orientation sessions on the seventh floor at 75 Varick Street in Manhattan for people making new claims for unemployment insurance. 
 This is one of the shorelines where the mighty wave of November layoffs has come to break, the tens of thousands rolling in as a tide of humans, not numbers. 
 ''There were people worse than me,'' said Eli Saraf, 64, and single. He worked in information technology at Bank Hapoalim, which lost money on subprime mortgages. ''I have no dependents. If you have children and you are 58 or something like that, it would be even harder. I worked mostly on mainframes, which are becoming extinct, so I've gone to classes to get new Microsoft certification. I took a class here on resume writing. I hadn't written one in 25 years. But I'm so close to retirement, I don't know if anyone will take me.'' 
 After the 8:30 a.m. orientation, a group sat in a conference room, explaining how they got there and where they expected to go. 
 Selling French clothing on Fifth Avenue, Alberto Alamo discovered, was a shrinking business. His job at Faconnable disappeared in November. ''Earlier this year, it started drying up,'' Mr. Alamo, 26, said. ''If we don't sell, we don't eat. If people don't want to shop, you can't go out and put a 9-millimeter to their heads and make them.'' 
 Susan Swartz, who worked in marketing for a company that specialized in luxury retail construction, said the firm -- which she did not want to identify -- had been conscientious about protecting its employees. ''They were very proud that in 26 years they had never laid anyone off,'' Ms. Swartz, 37, said. ''When things were going good, they projected really high numbers for this year.'' 
 By November, though, the layoffs began: new boutiques are not a growth industry.
 ''Nobody's shopping,'' Mr. Alamo said. 
 ''You go to Bloomingdale's and Saks, it looks like Filene's Basement,'' Ms. Swartz said. 
 ''The sales racks look like World War III,'' Mr. Alamo said. ''And haggling! I've never seen haggling like that before in major stores. It's like going to Brighton Beach.'' 
 Anna Wolf, who worked in risk assessment for a big investment bank, did not realize her own job was in jeopardy until November, just before bonuses were awarded. Her group was pared down. ''The less people in the group, the bigger the bonus for the ones who remain,'' Ms. Wolf, 33, said. ''Everyone was sitting and being scared on Wednesdays in November. For some reason, that was the day they were doing the cuts. I got laid off 10 days before the bonuses.''
 This brought a general groan from others in the room. Evelyn Pate, an executive recruiter, said to Ms. Wolf: ''If it makes you feel any better, I heard that from every single one of my clients.''
 Ms. Pate, 34, who worked exclusively on commission, could hardly get people hired when job cuts in the tens of thousands were being announced every week. ''Great boss, great company, but when you're sitting there without a paycheck week after week, it's kind of tough,'' she said. ''There was nothing in the financial sector from middle management up.''
 At least among the people in the room, no one seemed to take the job losses personally, and they all were imagining fresh starts.
 Melissa Lamarre, 22, a student at Rutgers who had been working at Barney's for a temporary agency, said she had formed a public relations agency, Insomniac Creative, to help young musicians and artists. Ms. Wolf had a baby boy earlier this year. ''I'm going to be able to see him sitting up,'' she said. ''It's not like they betrayed me.'' 
 Ms. Swartz said the layoff had been liberating, forcing her to do more than just dream about starting her own company, and Ms. Pate hopes to consult with new businesses that will thrive in the green economy that is thought to be just over the hills.
 And Mr. Alamo saw another steady tide, alongside the unemployed.
 ''Tourism,'' he said. ''You live in New York all your life, you see that there's always tourists. I'm getting my business license, going for the tax number. I was doing it when I was still in retail, taking foreign clients out for dinners, to clubs. I could make $500 in a weekend.''
 ''Why didn't you do it before now?'' Ms. Swartz asked. 
 ''I was making 70 grand a year,'' Mr. Alamo said. ''Used to be a decent living, selling clothes.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 30, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A caption with a picture in some editions on Wednesday with the About New York column, showing job seekers at the State Department of Labor office on 125th Street, misstated the date the picture was taken. It was Sept. 5, not the week of Dec. 15.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At the Department of Labor office on 125th Street last week. First-time jobless claims have risen sharply in the city recently.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (87%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); PARENTING (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); RETAILERS (77%); LUXURY GOODS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); JEWELRY WHOLESALERS (71%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (53%); SUBPRIME LENDING (53%)

COMPANY: BANK HAPOALIM BM (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); FILENE'S BASEMENT INC (50%)

TICKER: POLI (TASE) (56%); 80OA (LSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008



873 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THE TV WATCH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Log: The Directors' Cuts

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
It seems like cheating, or bad karma, but it's possible to have a yule log crackling on the television screen anytime, even several days before Christmas -- or on Halloween or Presidents' Day, for that matter.
With titles like ''Ambient Fire'' and ''The Happy Holiday Hearth,'' yule log DVDs offer a dizzying array of flaming options, from stately baroque plumes to crispy, woodsy campfires. There is even a soft-core porn Christmas log: on ''Yule a Go-Go,'' dancers like Ms. Tickle and Bunny Love perform tassled, spangled burlesque-style stripteases to Christmas carols in front of a roaring fire. (Actually, those flames are quite subdued, for perhaps obvious reasons.) 
There used to just be one yule log on television. Viewers had to wait for it, and it didn't come with naughty features or special effects. The WPIX Christmas yule log was first shown in New York in 1966, in black and white, and for several uninterrupted hours, apartment dwellers could stare at flames flickering in a hearth as Christmas songs played in the background. Later, other stations around the country began offering yule logs, but in New York the WPIX log, a kitschy tribute to television as the family hearth -- not just metaphorically but literally -- became a fiercely cherished local tradition, like the Biltmore clock or egg creams. (The flames were reshot in 1970, and that 6-minute, 3-second loop, has been the authentic yule log ever since.)
When WPIX decided to stop showing it in 1989, the station was flooded with complaints and in 2001 it brought the log back.
Every Christmas, fans fret that this is the year WPIX will cancel the tradition again (or worse, retape and update the fire), and this year there was cause for real concern: WPIX is owned by the Tribune Company, which filed for bankruptcy this month. They worried needlessly. WPIX is planning to show the log on Christmas Day from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m., with the same ferocious flame work and sentimental songs by Mantovani, Bing Crosby and Nat King Cole.
Still, if the current financial crisis has taught the public anything, it's that it is wise to hedge bets. WPIX does not offer a DVD of its yule log, mostly because of the prohibitive copyright costs of the music. Some people make their own recordings, and clips are available on YouTube. But for those who wish to have a yule log in reserve, there are those DVDs, so many in fact that hard choices must be made.
Not all yule logs are alike. ''Fireplace: Visions of Tranquility,'' made by the Richard Diercks Company, has intense, almost Bergmanesque cinematography. One of its options, ''Night Music,'' begins with a menacing close-up of a match being struck, and for the first few minutes the camera is so close to the log that it looks like a telescopic image of the moon's surface.
''Fireplace'' also offers less alarming choices, including ''Christmas Goes Baroque,'' which has a gentle fire and an orchestration of ''Jingle Bells'' that is so grand it almost sounds like Bach.
''The Original Christmas Yule Log Fireplace'' is really more of a copy, and that title is likely to offend WPIX loyalists, who know that the original was the brainstorm of Fred M. Thrower, the president of WPIX Inc. This version, created more than 20 years ago by Steve Siporin, a Californian, has a more lavish Ralph Lauren-style fireplace setting -- horse paintings and chintz armchairs -- though once the camera closes in on the fire, the flames are quite soothing.
This DVD, like most others, has many choices. It also comes with a director's cut: Mr. Siporin, in a turtleneck and windbreaker, poses against a backdrop of ocean waves lapping gently on the shore and answers so-called frequently asked questions, starting with how he came up with the idea. Mr. Siporin gives WPIX credit, explaining that he saw its log at a friend's apartment while visiting New York in 1981. He then talks at such length about his life and oeuvre that before he's finished, the sun sets in gold and pink stripes behind him.
The ''Happy Holiday Hearth,'' from Rhino Home Video, bucks convention with thin logs piled in a triangle, like a teepee, backed by bricks laid at a downward slant. That modernist touch is belied by the highly traditional music, sung by a big chorus with cheesy '50s-style flourishes. My DVD did not allow fast-forwarding, a fatal flaw.
Of all, ''Ambient Fire,'' from Jumby Bay Studios, is probably the most practical, because it offers viewers the option of creating their own playlist from nine fireplace images, ranging from an almost Victorian ''Holiday Fire,'' to ''Candles,'' ''Just Logs,'' ''Just Flames'' and even ''Saucy Flames,'' which looks a lot like ''Just Logs,'' only the saucy logs undulate and even blur, as if to convince viewers that they have had one too many eggnogs.
''Yule a Go-Go,'' a two-disc holiday set from a company by the same name that promises to put ''the boob back in the boobtube,'' is not quite as faithful to the Christmas spirit, but it is likely to make many merry gentlemen all the merrier.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUMBY BAY STUDIOS) (C1)
A scene, as it were, from ''Yule a Go-Go,'' which features burlesque-style dancers.
 The WPIX yule log isn't available on DVD (you can find clips on YouTube), but there are choices a go-go, including the discs shown here.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUMBY BAY STUDIOS)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (93%); HALLOWEEN (77%); FILM (76%); MUSIC (74%); PORNOGRAPHY (71%); DANCERS (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (50%); COPYRIGHT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



874 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: Nearly the End of the Line for S.U.V.'s

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY and BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: JANESVILLE, Wis. 

 BODY:
Even a federal bailout could not save three of the last remaining plants in the United States still making sport utility vehicles.
 Reeling from its financial problems and a collapsing S.U.V. market, General Motors on Tuesday closed its factories in this city and in Moraine, Ohio, marking the passing of an era when big S.U.V.'s ruled the road. The moves followed the shutdown last Friday of Chrysler's factory in Newark, Del., which produced full-size S.U.V.'s.
 The last Chevrolet Tahoe rolled off the line here in Janesville shortly after 7 a.m. in the 90-year-old plant, which had built more than 3.7 million big S.U.V.'s since the early 1990s.
 Most of the plant's 1,100 remaining workers were not scheduled to work the final day, but many showed up for an emotional closing ceremony. Dan Doubleday, who had 22 years on the job, broke down in the plant's snowy parking lot afterward. 
 ''I was a fork lift driver,'' he said, glancing at his watch through welling tears. ''Until about seven minutes ago.''
 At the Mocha Moment coffee shop around the corner, two co-workers, Michael Berberich and Lisa Gonzalez, exchanged Christmas presents just as they had most years since they were both hired in 1986.
 ''For a while we had it made,'' Ms. Gonzalez said. ''I just wish it would have lasted.'' 
 The fate of the Janesville, Moraine, and Newark plants was sealed this spring, when rising gas prices suddenly made S.U.V.'s unpopular, and long before President Bush approved $17.4 billion in emergency loans last week to keep G.M. and Chrysler out of bankruptcy. 
 While the overall new vehicle market has dropped 16 percent so far this year, sales of big S.U.V.'s have plummeted 40 percent.
 With consumers shifting rapidly to smaller, more fuel-efficient cars, G.M. no longer needed to produce big S.U.V.'s in Janesville as well as in a plant in Texas.
 Still, some Janesville workers felt G.M. broke a pledge in its 2007 contract with the United Automobile Workers to keep the factory running.
 ''We didn't deserve this,'' said John Dohner Jr., shop chairman at U.A.W. Local 95. ''We've all put a lot of hard work into trying to secure a future here.''
 Shrinking market shares have forced G.M., Chrysler and the Ford Motor Company to close more than a dozen assembly plants and shed tens of thousands of workers in recent years. The moves have devastated communities from Georgia to New Jersey and from Michigan to Oklahoma.
 Even so, G.M. and Chrysler are likely to close more manufacturing facilities as they overhaul their operations to meet conditions of the federal loans.
 ''The companies are moving very fast now to close plants, but it may be too little, too late,'' said John Casesa, a principal in the Casesa Shapiro Group, a consulting firm. ''They're doing now what they should have done 15 or 20 years ago.''
 G.M.'s Moraine plant was the last to build the midsize Chevrolet Blazers and GMC Envoys that were once among the best-selling vehicles in the country.
 The Janesville factory built three of the biggest and most profitable vehicles in G.M.'s lineup, the Chevrolet Tahoe and Suburban and GMC Yukon. The Chrysler plant in Newark also made big S.U.V.'s -- the Dodge Durango and Chrysler Aspen.
 Their closings leave the Big Three with only one factory each still devoted to making traditional big S.U.V.'s -- Ford in Kentucky, G.M. in Texas, and Chrysler in Detroit.
 The Janesville plant once employed more than 5,000 workers and turned out 20,000 Tahoes, Yukons and Suburbans each month. With its closing, residents worried about the future of this city of 64,000 people, about 75 miles southwest of Milwaukee.
 ''Janesville will lose a lot,'' said Patti Homan, as she finished a strawberry-topped waffle at the nearby Eagle Inn restaurant. ''I expect my electricity to go up, water rates to go up, property taxes to go up, and the value of my home to go down.''
 Ms. Homan worked in the plant for 23 years, and her father, brother and husband all retired from the factory. ''It's generation after generation for so many families here,'' she said.
 The empty feelings in Janesville were echoed in Moraine, a suburb of Dayton and last week at the Chrysler plant in Newark.
 More than 1,000 workers were laid off at the Moraine plant. Under terms of the U.A.W. contract for all its members, they and the workers in Janesville and Newark will collect unemployment checks and payments from G.M. that together equal about 80 percent of their take-home pay.
 But those payments will only last about a year. And with the U.A.W. prepared to suspend its ''jobs bank'' program as a condition of the federal loans, there will be no safety net after that.
 Some workers will have an opportunity to transfer to other plants. But with the industry contracting so quickly, there is little job security in making a move.
 ''I can't risk transferring,'' said David Williams, one of the remaining 1,100 workers at the Newark plant when it closed. ''I don't want to go 1,200 miles away to get laid off again.''
 Mr. Williams installed a sunroof on the last Dodge Durango to come down the assembly line in Newark. Now he plans to take massage-therapy classes and pursue a new career far from the factory floor.
 ''Enough with the concrete,'' he said. ''It's time for some carpet and climate control.''
 On the last day for the Newark plant, 84-year-old Woody Bevans unlocked the weight room at the U.A.W. union hall and began brewing coffee for a handful of retirees who passed the time there.
 A Texan who started work at the plant when it opened in 1952, Mr. Bevans recalled how the factory was first used to build tanks for the Korean War. He retired in 1983, but thought the plant would go on forever.
 ''We had hope right up until the last,'' Mr. Bevans said. ''We're really going to feel it when it shuts down. There's a big chain reaction, believe me.''
 The University of Delaware is negotiating with Chrysler to buy the plant and redevelop the 270-acre site with academic buildings and a technology park.
 After the plant closed, one of the workers, Merle Black, drove directly to a Delaware Department of Labor office and registered for job openings. He is hoping to become a heavy equipment operator, and possibly be involved in the demolition of the factory where he used to install airbag parts.
 ''If I can get in there to help take it apart, I don't mind,'' Mr. Black said. ''That's where I spent the last 19 years. That's what I know.''
 The closing of an auto plant draws a crowd, with some people somber and nostalgic and others defiant and energized.
 Outside the Janesville plant on Tuesday, a few workers posed for pictures in front of the building while others said their goodbyes as they loaded gear in their snow-covered S.U.V.'s
 One man had two small children with him on the last day. Another man wearing an orange ski mask waved a large American flag as departing workers drove by.
 Many of the workers trudged over to a one-story, cinder-block building on the grounds of the factory, a bar called the Zoxx 411 Club. A sign said ''customers only'' and forbade reporters and media from entering.
 Outside, a cluster of reporters, including a documentary film crew from Japan, tried to interview workers about the last days of the S.U.V. plant.
 ''It's been a good ride, man,'' said Frank Hereford, a body shop worker, as he left the plant with a microwave oven that heated up countless lunches during many of his 38 years with G.M. ''Good people worked down here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''It's been a good ride, man,'' said Frank Hereford as he left the G.M. Janesville plant.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY MANIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The last Chevrolet Tahoe rolled off the line at the 90-year-old plant in Janesville, Wis. Workers at the plant have built more than 3.7 million big sport utility vehicles since the early 1990s.(PHOTOGRAPH BY POOL PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL OLMSTED)
Workers outside a G.M. assembly plant in Moraine, Ohio, on the last day of operations.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GREG SAILOR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Union workers Jeff Jones, left, and Darryl Williams at the Moraine assembly plant. The plant was the last to build the midsize Chevrolet Blazers and GMC Envoys that were once best sellers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GREG SAILOR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
David Williams, at left with his wife, Kim, worked for Chrysler in Newark, Del. Dan McCarthy, right, with family, was transferred from Wisconsin to Texas.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY MANIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); CHRISTMAS (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (90%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008



875 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: A Light-Filled Cathedral Radiates Hope

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif. 

 BODY:
One of only two cathedrals completed this year in the United States, the Cathedral of Christ the Light is a wonder of religious architecture. 
 Designed by Craig Hartman, a partner in the San Francisco office of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, the $190 million cathedral, which seats 1,300, is a 12-story oval structure. Its light-filled nave, laced together with a web of hidden steel bars, is supported by long timbers of Douglas fir and enclosed by wooden louvers and more than 1,000 panes of glass. The combination of wood, glass, concrete and brushed aluminum somehow creates the sensation of serenity and transcendence. 
 But for residents, city leaders and neighbors, the development is more than just the sanctuary. The 253,000-square-foot complex, on a $32.7 million, 2.5-acre site in Oakland's downtown, also offers a spacious plaza, below-ground parking for 200 cars, a conference center that seats 500 people and an aggressive ministry in free health and law clinics. 
 Oakland's mayor, Ronald V. Dellums, put it succinctly when he addressed an interfaith service at the cathedral on Sept. 26, a day after its dedication. ''Thank you for placing this crown on our city,'' he said. ''Thank you for choosing Oakland.'' 
 The opening of the Cathedral of Christ the Light, after three years of construction, comes at a moment of economic and cultural reckoning for this uncertain city of 400,000 residents and for more than 500,000 Roman Catholics in the two-county diocese it serves. 
 The economic downturn threatens to reverse years of steady growth in population, as well as improvement in Oakland's downtown housing, office and retail markets. Housing values in and around the city continue to slump -- more than 40 percent over the last two years in many suburbs, almost 20 percent in parts of Oakland. Joblessness is nearly 9 percent in the city and is approaching 8 percent in the surrounding communities. 
 Another pernicious fact of life is violent crime. Oakland contends with one of the highest rates of homicide in the nation. Last year, 127 people were murdered in Oakland. As of Dec. 1 this year, 118 killings have occurred, including three within 15 blocks of the cathedral.
 Some people are leaving. ''If you can't protect residents from random violence and crime, then it doesn't matter how walkable a city it is,'' wrote Susan Glass, the director of media relations at the University of California, Berkeley, School of Law, in an essay in The San Francisco Chronicle this month. 
 Nine years ago, when planning for the new cathedral began, Bishop John S. Cummins and members of the planning committee considered sites in the suburbs. They decided that Oakland was the center of the East Bay region and the hub of the diocese, one of the fastest-growing in the country. The new cathedral, opened the same year as the Co-Cathedral of the Sacred Heart in Houston, replaces the Cathedral of St. Francis de Sales, which was seriously damaged in the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake and demolished five years later.
 The cathedral's provost, the Rev. Paul Minnihan, said at the September interfaith service that the location was central to the cathedral's mission of ''outreach, advocacy and concern for social justice.'' The Cathedral of Christ the Light, he said, ''brings light and hope to this city and the streets of all of our communities.''
 Just as light is a defining metaphor of Oakland diocese's mission, it is also the central design element of the new cathedral. 
 For more than 1,000 days, people here could watch the ornate choreography of the construction process. The cathedral was built from the top down in order to set the 110-foot laminated timber ribs. From the outside, it looked as if tiny men were swarming through the body cavity of a giant whale. 
 By day, natural light warms the nave of the completed cathedral. It also shines through 94,000 perforations in an angular aluminum screen above the altar, revealing a 58-foot-high image of Christ, reproduced from a sculpture above the Royal Portal at the Chartres Cathedral in France.
 By night, the cathedral, lighted from the inside, looks like a white crystal, perched on a raised plaza and flanked by much taller office buildings. 
 The cathedral's site along Lake Merritt, a tidal estuary in the city's downtown that has served since the late 19th century as a wildlife sanctuary and a popular recreation area, is crucial, diocese leaders say. ''Cathedrals historically were located at the center of the community,'' said Mike Brown, a diocese spokesman. ''They served as gathering place, market, the center of civic and religious activity.''
 To some extent, the Cathedral of Christ the Light is already serving that role. The project generated such a powerful response in and around Oakland that the diocese raised $115 million of the total cost of $190 million from foundations and private donors, many from Oakland. 
 Its presence is influencing the surrounding Uptown Lake Merritt neighborhood, which could very well become the new center of Oakland. An active station stop of the Bay Area Rapid Transit system, the commuter rail network that serves the San Francisco region, is only a few blocks away. Lake Merritt's nearby neighborhoods are among the nicest in downtown Oakland. A Whole Foods Market recently opened on Harrison Street, two blocks from the cathedral. 
 Along Broadway, three blocks from the cathedral in the other direction, two restored theaters -- the Fox and the Paramount -- anchor the recovering Uptown neighborhood, which has a new 25,000-square-foot park.
 Forest City Enterprises, a Cleveland-based developer, is finishing a 665-unit rental apartment building, part of a 14-acre redevelopment. Signature Properties, based in Pleasanton, Calif., completed a 132-unit condominium project a few blocks away last year. Slow sales have prompted the company to offer some units as rentals. 
 Forest City also has an exclusive agreement with Oakland to build 250 condominiums in the Uptown district; it plans to start the work when the market picks up. A separate 80-unit affordable rental apartment building is under construction by Resources for Community Development, a Berkeley-based developer.
 ''How often does somebody build a stunning new cathedral right in the middle of an up-and-coming neighborhood?'' asked Jeanne R. Myerson, the president and chief executive of the Swig Company, a San Francisco-based real estate investment and development company that owns the 28-story Kaiser Center office building a block from the new cathedral. ''The market is down, but there is still a lot happening in a place becoming a mixed-use transit-oriented district. The cathedral is a once-in-a-lifetime jewel crowning the renaissance of that area.''
 Actually more than one lifetime. With the cathedral in an active earthquake zone, the Oakland diocese asked Mr. Hartman to design a building that could last 300 years. The entire cathedral rests on a nest of casters that enable it to move four feet in any direction.
 Mark Sarkisian, the firm's director of structural engineering, asserts that with regular maintenance, the Cathedral of Christ the Light has a design life of at least 1,000 years. ''This building was meant for longer life,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The 12-story Cathedral of Christ the Light along Lake Merritt in the downtown section of Oakland, Calif.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); VIOLENT CRIME (87%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); SUBURBS (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); HOUSING MARKET (69%); HOMICIDE (66%); MURDER (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); HOME PRICES (63%); POPULATION GROWTH (63%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (63%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (61%)

COMPANY: SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (58%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008



876 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Shoppers Go North, Seeking Bargains

BYLINE: By JOHN DOUGHERTY

 BODY:
TUCSON -- Mexican shoppers with fists full of cash and long Christmas lists are pouring across the border into hotels, restaurants and shopping malls here, providing an economic boost in a downward spiraling economy.
The families, mostly middle- and upper-income, are traveling hundreds of miles to take advantage of a much wider selection of products at substantially lower prices than can be found in their hometowns in the Mexican states of Sonora and Sinaloa -- even after the recent 30 percent devaluation of the Mexican peso against the dollar.
For many, it is a long journey by car that includes multiple searches at Mexican police roadblocks, followed by a huge traffic jam at the border crossing in Nogales, where delays of two hours or longer to enter the United States are common. But even with the exasperation, Mexican shoppers said it was still worth making the trip.
''We can find everything we want and it's much cheaper,'' said Aurelia Peralta, a 38-year-old homemaker from Hermosillo, a city of 700,000 about 200 miles south of Tucson. Pointing to the Guitar Hero World Tour display model her teenage son was playing, she said popular Christmas gifts cost twice as much in Hermosillo. 
When she was a girl, Ms. Peralta's family made the pilgrimage to Tucson each year, she said, and she and her husband, Obed Romero, have continued the ritual for the last 15. Mr. Romero said there are still plenty of bargains, even with the peso's devaluation. And with Spanish widely spoken and Hispanics of Mexican descent making up 30 percent of the population, ''We feel very comfortable.''
That is not by chance. Making Mexican shoppers feel welcome is an increasingly high priority for businesses in Tucson.
''It's extremely vital to make sure we do everything we can do to accommodate them at this time,'' said George Bon, national sales manager for the Radisson Suites Tucson. ''The bottom line is, we can't afford to lose them.''
Mexican visitors spend more than $300 million a year in the Tucson metropolitan area, according to a study in 2002 by the Economic and Business Research Program at the University of Arizona.
Mr. Bon said small gestures go a long way in establishing personal relationships with Mexican tourists, which is vital to generating return business. The Radisson, for example, started providing large trash bags to Mexican guests so they could discard wrapping materials for shoes, clothes and other items before they head back to Mexico. Many Mexican shoppers, Mr. Bon said, throw away packaging and place their items in suitcases to avoid high duties on new purchases when they re-enter Mexico.
The hotel also provides complimentary shuttle service to nearby shopping malls. Mexican visitors typically stay three days at the $99-a-night hotel. ''They are helping keep us afloat because they tend to visit during the off-peak times,'' Mr. Bon said.
Mexican tourists not only help fill the hotel during Christmas, but also provide an important client base during the summer and Easter, he said.
Tucson attracts more than 3.46 million visitors from Mexico each year and the city's convention and visitors bureau is aggressively marketing the city across the border in the neighboring Mexican state of Sonora. J. Felipe Garcia, vice president of community affairs and Mexico marketing for the Metropolitan Tucson Convention and Visitors Bureau, said a steady number of Mexican visitors are continuing to shop in the United States despite the economic troubles that are also gripping Mexico, where retail sales are falling along with the value of the peso.
''The mentality of the Mexican visitor in these times of economic crisis is very different than in the U.S.,'' Mr. Garcia said. ''The people in the U.S. are afraid of spending. But people in Mexico, they are used to economic devaluations, recessions and crisis. In their mind, they are not scared.''
The convention bureau has an office in Hermosillo and Mr. Garcia said it would soon open offices farther south in Los Mochis and Culiacan, both in the state of Sinaloa. All three cities have higher average incomes than the nearby border towns of Nogales and Agua Prieta.
About 22 million non-United States citizens legally enter Arizona through the state's six ports of entry each year. More than 70 percent of the visitors report that shopping is the primary reason for their visit. By comparison, the United States Border Patrol reports that 325,000 people were arrested in the 2008 fiscal year trying to enter the United States illegally along the Arizona border.
Slightly more than 96 percent of the legitimate visitors stay for only one day before returning to Mexico. Most of the rest stay less than three nights in hotels or with family or friends, according to the University of Arizona report.
The survey, which will be updated next month, found that Mexican tourists spent close to $1 billion in Arizona, far more than the $330 million spent by Arizonans in Mexico. The co-author of the 2002 report, Vera Pavlakovich-Kochi, said the report to be released in January by the Arizona Office of Tourism is one of four studies conducted over the last 30 years that have found that Mexican visitors have ''very significant economic importance to Arizona.''
Mr. Garcia said Mexican shoppers coming to Tucson almost always pay in cash and many save money all year for a shopping excursion the week before Christmas. Salaried workers in Mexico also receive a mandatory bonus of at least two weeks' pay in mid-December that helps fuel a Christmas buying spree that continues through the first week of January until the Mexican holiday of Dia de los Tres Reyes on Jan. 6.
Fernando Escalante, 39, is one of those Mexican shoppers who shrugged off bad economic news and brought his family to Tucson to shop. Mr. Escalante, the owner of a heating and air-conditioning business in Hermosillo, said he is spending less money this year but getting more merchandise because prices are much lower.
Mr. Escalante said Mexicans are in a better position to weather economic turmoil because many own their homes outright and do not carry large amounts of credit card debt. ''If we have it, we own it and we have already paid for it,'' he said.
Eric Placencia, general manager of Best Buy in Tucson, said Mexican shoppers make border stores like his ''some of the highest-volume stores in the company.'' Mr. Placencia said laptop computers are ''huge sellers'' because they are usually 35 percent to 40 percent cheaper than in Mexico. The store also sells Spanish-language software, music and videos.
Jan Howard, marketing director for the Tucson Mall, the most popular destination for Mexican visitors, said Mexican shoppers are helping to keep retail spending ''fairly strong'' in Tucson. She said, ''I think we are weathering the recession a lot better than Phoenix,'' which is farther from the border.
Still, there are indications that Mexican shoppers are coming in fewer numbers this year. The number of riders taking shuttle buses from Hermosillo to Tucson is down, said Luis Aguilar, co-owner of Hermosillo Shuttles. ''Last year we carried a lot more people,'' Mr. Aguilar said. ''This year has been a little bit hard on us.''
Mr. Aguilar said he had also noticed a sharp increase in the number of Mexicans returning to Mexico with one-way tickets, particularly people from Phoenix. ''They are going back to Mexico because they don't have any job,'' he said.
Caught in the Nogales border traffic jam late Saturday afternoon, Jose Angulo and his wife, Angelica Espinosa, took the two-hour delay in stride, saying they were looking forward to spending three days in Tucson relaxing in a hotel and shopping. What was the big attraction that made it worth the difficult border crossing?
''Selection and price,'' Ms. Espinosa said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Agustin Acuna loaded Mexicans' bags for the return trip from Tucson.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DEAN KNUTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
A clerk at a J. C. Penney store in Tucson rang up a purchase for Cecilia Rivera, left, on a shopping trip from Hermosillo, Mexico. Tucson's economy depends on shoppers from south of the border.
With his holiday shopping list in hand, Orestes Manzanares, left, of Los Mochis, in the Mexican state of Sinaloa, was helped by Sergio Rodriguez, a manager at a Best Buy store in Tucson.
 Lupa Castro Monzon, of Ciudad Obregon, sampled a perfume at a J. C. Penney store.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DEAN KNUTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); DEVALUATION (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); FAMILY (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); CITY LIFE (74%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); CITIES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (99%); NOGALES, AZ, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (99%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



877 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 484 words

 BODY:
READING BY DEVICE Amazon.com's popular Kindle is unavailable until February, creating an opening for Sony's Reader, left. The increased competition could signal the public's acceptance of the idea of reading longer texts on a portable digital device. 
 BORN TO SHOP IN TUCSON Mexican shoppers with plenty of cash and long Christmas lists are providing an economic lift for retailers in Tucson, with many of the buyers coming from hundreds of miles away. [B1.] 
 BOOKS OF THE YEAR Creating a reading list for anyone trying to make sense of the world right now includes books mainly from 2008 and also a prophetic book from 2003 and a classic from the 1950s. Economic Scene: David Leonhardt. [B1.] 
 WAL-MART SETTLES Wal-Mart Stores says it intends to pay $352 million -- and maybe much more -- to settle about 63 wage and hour lawsuits after years of being accused of forcing employees to work off the clock and go without meal and rest breaks. [B1.]
 HOME SALES AND PRICES FALL Home sales dropped last month and housing prices plummeted at their fastest rate in 40 years as the housing market continues to struggle in the recession. [B3.] 
 YOUR TRUE LOVE'S BILL True loves with money to spend will find that giving the gifts mentioned in the Christmas song, 'The 12 Days of Christmas'' costs just 1.1 percent more than last year -- if you overlook the ''seven swans a-swimming.'' [B3.]
 LAST S.U.V. PLANTS CLOSE Reeling from its financial woes and a collapsing sport utility market, General Motors has closed its factories in Janesville, Wis. and Moraine, Ohio, ending one era and beginning another with more fuel-efficient vehicles. [B1.] 
 GMAC bondholders will vote soon on a complicated transaction to reduce GMAC's outstanding debt and permit it to become a bank holding company. [B5.]
 Toyota Motor, which is facing its worst year in decades, is preparing to make a change in top management next year, people with knowledge of the plans said. [B4.]
 PAPERS TO SHARE NEWS The Washington Post and The Baltimore Sun say they will share some of their articles and pictures, adding two major players to list of newspapers that are cooperating with their regional competitors. [B2.]
 YOU, THE ICE CREAM TYCOON A new game created with the help of Dairy Queen, DQ Tycoon, lets players operate a fast-food franchise as companies try to interest children in their brands without directly marketing to them. Advertising. [B9.]
 SCANDAL TOUCHES SWISS BANKS The Bernard L. Madoff scandal has brought unwanted attention on elite private banks like Union Bancaire Privee of Geneva because they, too, are victim's of the elaborate Ponzi scheme. [B1.]
 MORE THAN A CATHEDRAL A new oval Roman Catholic cathedral is bringing hope to downtown Oakland, Calif. [B7.] 
 BUYING DEBT A change is occurring in commercial real estate, away from brick-and-mortar properties and toward the buying and selling of debt. [B7.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RETAILERS (77%); FAST FOOD (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); ICE CREAM (72%); FRANCHISING (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (71%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (68%); CLOSINGS (68%); HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); BONDS (66%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (64%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (61%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); PONZI SCHEMES (60%); RELIGION (60%); SCANDALS (60%)

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (58%); WAL-MART STORES INC (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); WASHINGTON POST CO (52%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (52%); INTERNATIONAL DAIRY QUEEN INC (51%); UNION BANCAIRE PRIVEE UBP SA (50%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (58%); WMT (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (53%); WPO (NYSE) (52%); TYT (LSE) (52%); TM (NYSE) (52%); 7203 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (56%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC5046 COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (92%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (66%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (66%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008



878 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2472 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: December 24, 2008

 BODY:
International
 BETHLEHEM'S FRAGILE REVIVAL
 Six years ago, Bethlehem was the site of a five-week standoff between Israeli troops and armed Palestinian militants. Yet even under the still-stringent security parameters, there are more tourists in Bethlehem than at any time in a decade, and life for West Bank Palestinians, though still oppressive, seems to be making substantial, if fragile, improvement. PAGE A6
 WRITERS CALL FOR DISSIDENT'S RELEASE
 More than 160 prominent writers, scholars and human rights advocates outside mainland China have signed an open letter calling for the release of Liu Xiaobo, a well-known intellectual and dissident who was detained this month by the Chinese government. PAGE A8 
 BEIJING MULLS BUILDING CARRIER
 China appears to be moving toward the construction of its first aircraft carrier, as a Defense Ministry spokesman said the country was seriously considering ''relevant issues'' in deciding whether to move ahead with the project. If the carrier is built, it would raise tensions with the United States, Taiwan and Japan. PAGE A8 
 Paris Journal
 When a Cake Is So Much More
 Like giving Champagne as a gift, the Buche de Noel, a spongy cake decorated to look like a chunk of tree cut from the forest, is a holiday tradition in France. Because of the economic downturn, makers of both are dressing up their wares to give the appearance of luxury. But there are plenty of French scrooges appalled by all the excess. PAGE A9 
 GUINEA'S CONTESTED COUP
 A group of soldiers seized on the death of President Lansana Conte of Guinea, one of Africa's longest-ruling strongmen, to proclaim a coup. The situation was made more confusing when the prime minister said in a state broadcast that his government continues to function as it should. PAGE A11 
 BOMB SUSPECTS SAID TO BE PAKISTANI
 The police in Indian-administered Kashmir said the arrests of three suspected suicide bombers who were found at a hotel in Jammu, the winter capital of Kashmir State, were Pakistanis using fake Indian identity cards. Officials said one of the men was a Pakistani soldier, which appeared to be confirmed by a Pakistani military official. PAGE A12
 GROUP ACCUSED IN HOTEL BOMBING
 A top Pakistani official said that, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, a Sunni Muslim extremist group believed to have been involved in the 2002 abduction and murder of the journalist Daniel Pearl, helped carry out the Marriott Hotel bombing in Islamabad three months ago that killed more than 50 people. PAGE A12 
 National
 MADOFF CASE BRINGS FEELINGS OF BETRAYAL FOR MANY JEWS
 Among the many victims of Bernard L. Madoff are many Jewish educational institutions and charitable causes that lost fortunes in his investments. The feeling of being betrayed by a fellow Jew has shaken Jews around the country who feel the cost of Mr. Madoff's swindle goes beyond the financial to the theological and the personal. PAGE A13 
 STILL NO WINNER IN MINNESOTA RACE
 There is still no end in sight to the Senate race in Minnesota between the Republican incumbent, Norm Coleman, and his Democratic challenger, the comedian Al Franken, and the secretary of state said there probably would not be a resolution before the new Congress is sworn in on Jan. 6. PAGE A14 
 LIBBY HAS NOT REQUESTED PARDON
 According to Justice Department officials, I. Lewis Libby Jr., the former chief of staff to Vice President Dick Cheney, has not applied for a pardon for his conviction for his role in the investigation of the leak of Valerie Wilson's employment with the Central Intelligence Agency. His sentence had already been commuted by President Bush, but his conviction means he cannot practice law. PAGE A14 
 TRANSCRIPTS OF KISSINGER TALKS
 For years, Henry A. Kissinger secretly recorded all of his phone calls, including many of his conversations with President Richard M. Nixon. Now a nonprofit research group at George Washington University has published an online edition of transcripts of 15,000 Kissinger phone calls from 1969 to 1977, fully indexed and searchable -- many containing candid talks about the Vietnam War. PAGE A14
 A NEW LINK TO LINCOLN
 President-elect Barack Obama will be sworn into office with the same Bible that Lincoln used for his first inauguration in 1861, which is part of the collection at the Library of Congress. And one of the most-sought-after inauguration tickets will be for a $500-a-plate dinner cooked by Alice Waters and other notable chefs. The Caucus. PAGE A15
 GUNMAN KILLS TWO DRIVERS
 A gunman fired at four vehicles during the evening rush in Dallas, killing two drivers and wounding a third. The police stopped a former Utah state trooper facing robbery charges to determine whether he was the shooter, but he shot himself in the head while sitting in his sport utility vehicle. PAGE A17 
 14 Rescued After Water Main Break A17 
 New York
 BROADCASTING TO HEZBOLLAH
 A Staten Island businessman pleaded guilty in Manhattan to assisting terrorists by providing satellite television services to Hezbollah's television station, Al Manar. The plea by the defendant, Javed Iqbal, 45, came weeks before he was to be tried in a case that had received wide attention after defense lawyers argued that the prosecution of Mr. Iqbal and a co-defendant violated their First Amendment rights. PAGE A21 
 Business
 TROUBLES IN THE HOUSING MARKET CONTINUE TO HURT SALES 
 November was not a good month for the housing market. Home sales plunged, and housing prices sank at their fastest rate in 40 years. The troubles plaguing the housing market are multiplying as jobs disappear, wages shrivel and the recession deepens. PAGE B1 
 BOOKS TO MAKE SENSE OF 2008
 David Leonhardt is out with his annual list of economics books of the year (and older books relevant to 2008). Here are a few of his choices:
 ''Financial Shock'' by Mark Zandi.
 ''Traffic'' by Tom Vanderbilt.
 ''Unequal Democracy'' by Larry M. Bartels
 ''Grand New Party'' by Ross Douthat and Reihan Salam PAGE B1 
 Mexicans Seek Bargains in Arizona B1 
 Washington Post and Baltimore Sun To Share News Content B2 
 GAS PRODUCING NATIONS COPY OPEC
 With Russia's support, a dozen natural gas-producing countries founded an organization that will study ways to set global prices for the fuel, much as the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries does for crude oil. PAGE B3 
 LEAPING LORDS, MILKING MAIDS, PEAR TREE AND MORE, MUST SELL!
 Good news. Christmas romantics can get 11 of the 12 items enumerated in ''The 12 Days of Christmas'' song for a bargain, $15,480.10, only 1.1 percent more than last year, according to PNC Wealth Management. That's if the person giving the gift omits the seven swans a-swimming, which would push the tab up to $21,080.10 PAGE B3 
 TOYOTA MAY NAME A NEW LEADER
 Facing its first operating loss in 70 years, Toyota Motor is set to make a change in top management next year, people with knowledge of the company's plans said. The company's president is expected to be named chairman next June, clearing the way for new day-to-day leadership. PAGE B4 
 MADOFF INVESTOR FOUND DEAD
 Rene-Thierry Magon de la Villehuchet, the co-founder of a prominent hedge fund that lost money in the $50 billion Ponzi scheme Bernard L. Madoff said he operated, was found dead in his office in what looked like suicide. PAGE B6 
 Light-Filled Cathedral Radiates Hope B7 
 Distressed Property Loans Draw Bids B7 
 GAMERS CAN RUN DAIRY QUEEN
 A game has been created with the help of Dairy Queen, DQ Tycoon, that lets players run their own fast-food franchise. PAGE B9 
 Dining
 A REASON TO BREAK OUT
 That Dusty Punch Bowl
 A growing number of cocktail enthusiasts have brought back both the holiday punch and the paraphernalia, pressing those punch bowls back into service. And these recipes are not for the junior prom, so you needn't bother bringing a flask. Page D5 
 A TWIST ON A FOND MEMORY
 Possibly inspired by childhood memories of steaming mugs before fireplaces, peddlers of the cacao bean have moved far beyond mere hot chocolate. At cafes around the city, chocolate lovers can find treats garnished with lavender or chipotle, or sip as the statue of an Aztec god keeps watch. Page D6 
 FINDING THE PROPER WAY
 To Honor Bay Scallops
 On a cold night, a hearty chowder seems the proper way to prepare deep ocean Peconic Bay scallops. And apart from the scallops, the rest of the ingredients are staples of the pantry. Page D3 
 SUGAR PLUMS FOR GROWN FOLKS
 A glass of port needs a little something to go with it. A good foil can be found for it in the sugarplum-walnut log by Pastilla Nash, which possesses a sweet, earthy flavor. Page D2 
 Martha Stewart's Got the Ham D2 
 PACIFIC OYSTERS DELIVERED
 When the mood strikes for a bit more effort beyond a trek to the Oyster Bar, Taylor Shellfish Farms near Seattle is at the ready. Its assortment of oysters comes in a kit, along with a knife, shucking instructions, a guide and an essay. All that's missing is Champagne and good company. Page D2 
 TAKING A CLASSIC FOR A SPIN
 Often calling for an entire pig torso, porchetta is a lot of things -- traditional and delicious, for starters -- but simple is not one of them. So here's the remix: ducketta. It shrinks porchetta to a neat, manageable package and morphs the often-boring duck breast to the tune of garlic, rosemary and Parmesan. Page D3 
 BUBBLES ON THE CHEAP ... 
 With money worries hanging over the holidays, Champagne sales are on the decline. But fear not: there are plenty of sparkling wines (25 tested by a Times panel) priced from $10 to $25. Page D1 
 ... AND A FLAMBeE, TOO 
 American caviars can be had for around $25 an ounce. A tarte flambee with caviar can showcase it and the sparkling wine quite nicely. Page D8 
 Arts
 ACTORS GUILD DELAYS VOTE
 On Authorizing Strike
 The Screen Actors Guild decided to hold off on plans for a strike authorization vote, and instead called for an emergency meeting of its national board next month. The sudden change in plans reflects the serious disagreement about the wisdom of seeking to strike during a recession. PAGE C1
 PUTTING ISOLATION INTO VERSE
 ''My Vocabulary Did This to Me'' is a collection of the poetry of Jack Spicer, who Dwight Garner writes is one of the most unjustly forgotten poets of heartbreak and abject loneliness. PAGE C1
 Which 'Nutcracker' Is Best? C3
 A DECIMATED CAST? NOT A PROBLEM
 Despite a car accident, an illness and a no-show by the would-be host, the gala presentation by the Dicapo Opera theater, containing excerpts of all 10 Puccini operas -- to celebrate the 150th anniversary of his birth -- went off splendidly, Anthony Tommasini writes. Above, Fabio Armiliato performed ''Nessun dorma'' from ''Turandot.'' PAGE C5 
 WAR WITHIN A PLAY WITHIN A MOVIE
 It's tough to summarize ''Theater of War'' -- it's a documentary about a Public Theater staging of Bertolt Brecht's epic play, ''Mother Courage and Her Children,'' but also about the war in Iraq, the House Un-American Activities Committee and Meryl Streep's acting process -- but Manohla Dargis writes that therein lies its appeal. PAGE C12
 Concert Reviews
 Keeping the Fangs Hidden
 The R & B upstart Jazmine Sullivan was a combination of tender and tough during her performance at S.O.B.'s, Jon Caramanica writes, but she kept her penchant for carving up exes in song mostly under wraps in favor of the vintage soul that dominates her debut album. PAGE C1
 A ROCK FESTIVAL OF LIGHTS
 The indie rock band Yo La Tengo confers respectability for on those who share their stage, Ben Ratliff writes. So perhaps it's no surprise that its annual Hanukkah rock festival draws in surprise guests for each of its eight nights, and usually performers of some note. On Monday, the second night of the run, the opening band was the Magnetic Fields. PAGE C5
 Sports 
 YANKEES RUNNING OUT OF ROOM UNDER THE CHRISTMAS TREE
 The Yankees have spent a lot of money this winter, and their endless arms race with the Red Sox was escalated again when they scooped up the coveted free agent Mark Teixeira for $180 million. But does their off-season profligacy speak of prudence or panic? Probably both. Harvey Araton, Sports of the Times. PAGE B10
 A GIANT'S LONG ODDS
 In high school, Brandon Jacobs hung out with a tough crowd and seemed destined for a factory job near his home. But his network of early supporters say Jacobs, now an N.F.L. running back with a Super Bowl ring and a nearly completed sociology degree, showed early flashes of his potential. PAGE B10
 SANTANA COULD SKIP CLASSIC
 Though Johan Santana said he would like to pitch again for the Venezuelan team in the 2009 World Baseball Classic, Mets General Manager Omar Minaya said he may ask him not to play in the tournament as he tries to recover from a knee surgery. PAGE B10
 Obituaries
 COY BACON, 66
 During his 14-year N.F.L. career, he made three Pro Bowls and was one of the league's top pass rushers while playing on four different teams. PAGE A19
 DR. ROBERT J. MARSHALL, 90
 A biblical scholar and pastor, he led the Lutheran Church in America in the 1970s, the largest Lutheran church in the country. PAGE A19
 ADRIAN MITCHELL, 76
 He was a spiritual descendant of William Blake and Walt Whitman, and his impassioned verse against social injustice and violence was often declaimed at antiwar rallies and political demonstrations. Page A19
 Editorial
 SHIFTING TROOP TARGETS
 There is disquieting talk in Washington of having tens of thousands of troops stay in Iraq longer than a new security agreement requests. For now, we urge President-elect Barack Obama to stick to his campaign pledge to pull combat troops out in 16 months. PAGE A20 
 THE RIGHT TO A DAY IN COURT
 The Bush administration wanted Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to be a law-free zone in which military captors were able to mistreat prisoners with impunity. Part of the process of undoing that ugly legacy is making clear that detainees have the right to sue if they were tortured or otherwise abused. PAGE A20 
 MORE PRIVACY ONLINE
 Yahoo has announced that it will no longer hold some personally identifiable search information for more than 90 days. It is an encouraging development for the cause of Internet privacy. PAGE A20 
 Op-Ed
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 Landing at Kennedy Airport from Hong Kong was like going from the Jetsons to the Flintstones. If we're so smart, why are other people living so much better than us? It's time to reboot America. PAGE A21 
 NOT-SO-LONELY PLANET
 ''Earthrise,'' the photograph taken by the Apollo 8 astronaut Bill Anders 40 years ago, gave people a fresh, but ultimately misleading, view of the Earth as an isolated and fragile world. In truth, Oliver Morton writes in an Op-Ed essay, our planet is a robust, living thing and well connected to the cosmos beyond. PAGE A21 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); COUPS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); JOURNALISM (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); NAVAL VESSELS (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (71%); MURDER (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); MILITARY VESSELS (68%); CHARITIES (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); POLICE FORCES (62%); HUMAN RIGHTS (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (77%) KASHMIR (92%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (76%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); CHINA (93%); GUINEA (92%); ASIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); TAIWAN (79%); FRANCE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008



879 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Home Sales Fell Sharply in November

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Home sales plunged last month, and housing prices fell at their fastest rate in 40 years, the latest indication that America's battered housing market will continue to struggle in a rapidly deteriorating economy. 
 Sales of previously owned homes, which make up most of the market, declined 8.6 percent in November, to a seasonally adjusted rate of 4.49 million, according to the National Association of Realtors, a trade group. The median price of a home fell 13 percent in November, to $181,300 from $208,800 a year ago, its lowest point since February 2004.
 ''It's probably the largest price drop since the Great Depression,'' said Lawrence Yun, chief economist of the National Association of Realtors. 
 The troubles plaguing the housing market, which are at the heart of America's financial crisis, are only multiplying as the recession deepens and a spiral of rising unemployment, lower wages and economic uncertainty gathers force. 
 ''Housing dragged down the markets this summer,'' said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at IHS Global Insight. ''Now it's the economy and financial markets that are dragging down housing.'' 
 Sales of single-family homes dropped 8 percent from October to November while the sales of condominiums and co-operatives fell even more, 13 percent, the Realtors association reported. Home sales declined across the country, but were the steepest in the Northeast, where they dropped 12 percent in November.
 The pool of unsold homes grew slightly to 4.2 million last month. At the current sales rate, it would take 11.2 months to sell the excess inventory, an increase from the 10.3 months of supply in October.
 Housing values have plummeted since the peak of the market in July 2006, when the median home price hit $230,200. The median price in November was down 21 percent from the 2006 level as sales declined, credit dried up and a flood of foreclosed homes hit the market.
 Economists expected home values to decline through the first six months of 2009. Joshua Shapiro, the chief United States economist at MFR, said some parts of the country might be only halfway through a retrenchment.
 ''Home sales haven't come down to prices that clear the market, given the size of the bubble that preceded this,'' Mr. Shapiro said. ''You need to have a correction, you need to have an adjustment.'' 
 The Federal Reserve has tried to bolster housing by lowering its interest rate target to record lows and promising to buy billions of dollars of mortgage-backed debt. Mortgage rates have fallen as a result, but economists said that many buyers might not get back into the market until the rates on a 30-year fixed mortgage drop to 4.5 percent from the current 5.3 percent.
 The Commerce Department also reported Tuesday that new-home sales dropped to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 407,000 in November, from a downwardly revised rate of 419,000 in October. The median price of a new home sold in November was $220,400, down 11.5 percent from the period a year ago.
 Many homes that were sold were done so by owners forced to sell. Mr. Yun, the economist with the Realtors association, said that about 45 percent of all sales in November were distressed sales in which the sellers faced foreclosure or had to sell their homes for less than the value of the mortgage.
 Those sales were especially pronounced in regions hit hardest by the housing collapse. In parts of Southern California, more than half of all houses sold in November had gone through foreclosure at some point in the last 12 months, according to MDA DataQuick, a real estate research firm. In the Las Vegas metropolitan area, that figure was 71 percent.
 ''Outside of distressed properties, the market is nonexistent almost,'' Frederick Cannon, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, said of the California market. ''You don't want to sell into it. Most people are saying, 'I'll just stay in this house.' ''
 A real estate agent in Riverside County in California, Gary Crutchley, said that he had sold six homes in the last four months. Three were foreclosure sales, two were ''short sales,'' in which homeowners sold to avoid foreclosure, and one was a traditional sale -- to a couple that had saved their money and were looking to buy into a distressed market.
 ''They're few and far between,'' Mr. Crutchley said.
 Investors who seemed to initially take Tuesday's economic news in stride sold late in the day. Stock markets closed lower ahead of a shortened trading session on Wednesday. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 100.28 points, or 1.2 percent, to 8,419.49, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 8.47 points, or 0.97 percent, to 863.16. The Nasdaq composite index declined 10.81 points, to 1,521.54.
 On Tuesday, the Commerce Department reported that the gross domestic product, the broadest measure of the economy, declined at an annual rate of 0.5 percent in the third quarter as corporate profits fell 1.2 percent. And the Reuters/University of Michigan Index of Consumer Sentiment rose to 60.1 in December, up from 55.3 in November.
 The Treasury's 10-year note fell 15/32, to 113 31/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was unchanged at 2.17 percent.
 Following are the results of Tuesday's Treasury auction of four-week bills and five-year notes:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sales of single-family homes fell 8 percent from October to November as unsold inventory rose.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANNON STAPLETON/REUTERS) CHARTS: New-Home Sales: Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.
Prices of New Homes: Median price for new homes.(Source: Commerce Department) Charts detail line graphs for prices and sales of new homes.
The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details line graph for daily stock market activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); NEW HOME SALES (79%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); FORECLOSURE (74%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

PERSON: NARIMAN BEHRAVESH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008



880 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: If You Skip the 7 Swans, The Lords Look Affordable

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
Deep-pocketed romantics who want to give a partridge in a pear tree and the other whimsical gifts from ''The 12 Days of Christmas'' may be in luck this year. The topsy-turvy economy means that it will cost only 1.1 percent more than last year for the eclectic mix of performers, gold rings and birds.
 The tab will be $15,480.10. But that price is valid only if the costly flock of trumpeter swans -- the song calls for seven swans a-swimming -- are struck from the gift list, which is compiled every year by PNC Wealth Management in Pittsburgh as an amusing way to track the annual cost of living. 
 Swans, which vary widely in price because of their scarcity, have caused big swings in the index. The gift package this year would shoot up to $21,080.10 if the swans were included because the going price for the seven is $5,600. That is a 33 percent increase, or $1,400, for the swans compared with the price last year.
 The index, which the bank has tracked for more than two decades, ''reflects trends in the broader economy, including prices of energy, commodities and wages,'' said James P. Dunigan, PNC's managing executive for investments.
 But this year proved to be a challenge for PNC's team, which checks the prices of the gifts, from the partridge's perch to the milking maids. The prices of energy and some goods jumped early in the year, then slid as the economy began flailing in the fall.
 Even so, Mr. Dunigan said that its Christmas core index -- which eliminates volatile items like swans -- mirrors the federal Consumer Price Index. 
 That inflation measure, produced by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, has a core index that strips out fluctuating items like food and gasoline. The index was up 2 percent through November year over year, the latest figure available, which is close to PNC's 1.1 percent core index figure. Adding the swans would increase the cost of the gifts by 8.1 percent from last year.
 Labor was the most stable cost in the extravagant gift lineup. The eight maids a-milking, for example, went up this year, to $52.40, because unskilled laborers received their second consecutive hourly wage increase. The federal minimum wage rose to $6.55 an hour, from $5.75 last year, the first increase for the maids since 1997.
 The costs of the other performers rose modestly in 2008, like last year. The 10 lords a-leaping, based on the pay of the Pennsylvania Ballet, cost $4,413.61, up 3 percent. The 11 pipers piping, $2,284.80, and the 12 drummers drumming, $2,475.20, received a 3.2 percent increase in their compensation. 
 But the nine ladies dancing, whose pay was based on figures from Philadelphia's modern dance company, Philadanco, cost exactly the same as last year -- $4,759.19. 
 Prices rose significantly for some of the song's varied fowl, at least until the end of October, when PNC assembled the prices. Turtle doves cost 37.5 percent more, $56, up from $40. Partridges and pear trees (the popular landscaping tree called Chanticleer) also rose about 33 percent each -- a partridge to $20 and a pear tree to $199.99. The prices came from the National Aviary in Pittsburgh and from retailers.
 However, the three French hens, $30, and the six geese a-laying, $240, both fell by about a third. The cost of the four calling birds -- otherwise known as canaries -- held steady at $599.96.
 The five gold rings, though, were down 11.4 percent, to $349.95, as prices for luxury items tumbled. And Mr. Dunigan said that presented an opportunity for consumers now to shave the $15,000 price tag.
 ''The bargaining power that the carol's true love would have now would be a driver to lower costs,'' he said. ''A smart shopper could get some pretty good bargains right now.''
 That might well apply to the Internet, where PNC's team calculated that it would cost $24,921.62 (without swans) to assemble the carol's gifts. That is up 2.9 percent from 2007 and reflects higher shipping costs. Convenience is a factor, but shopping online raises the price for the gifts by nearly $9,500. And swans -- being cumbersome to ship -- raise the cost even higher.
 Hard bargaining would be needed to whittle down this year's eye-popping $86,608.51 tab to give the gifts repetitively -- including several flocks of swans -- if the carol's verses were scrupulously followed. Bestowing the 364 items would cost 10.9 percent more than last year's $78,100.10, according to PNC.
 And that is a price tag that might give pause these days to even the most sentimental giver. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: This holiday season, the cost of seven swans a-swimming increased $1,400. Internet shoppers: shipping will cost extra.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COST OF LIVING (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); STATISTICS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); BIRDS (76%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (75%); TRENDS (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (76%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008



881 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: A Special Effort in Tough Precincts Makes Inroads Against Crime

BYLINE: By AL BAKER and KAREN ZRAICK

 BODY:
Along Linden Boulevard in East New York, the officers of Operation Impact patrol the Pink Houses with all the rigor of a military patrol, a clannish band of partners whose uniforms shout authority even when they do not speak.
 They tread the maze of eight-story buildings, inspect the interior staircases, aim their flashlights into the nighttime darkness of rooftops and -- on a recent frigid night -- coat their lips with layers of ChapStick.
 The police officers in this outpost in the eastern end of Brooklyn are part of a mini crime-suppression operation, one reliant on money, manpower and labor. They are the tip of the New York Police Department's crime-fighting spear.
 ''We feel really proud of the job we're doing here,'' Officer Kevin Martinez, 24, said as he walked his beat in the Louis H. Pink Houses, a public housing project of 1,500 apartments in 22 buildings. 
 ''When they see us here, they feel safe,'' he said.
 So far this year, police officials are praising the results: Impact has driven crime down across the 75th Precinct, a place once so violent that newspapers called it ''the murder capital of New York City.'' The number of homicides reported in the precinct this year has dropped to 16 by last weekend, down from 33 in all of 2007. Fifteen years ago, 126 people were killed there.
 A similar story can be told in 19 other precincts using Operation Impact, the broad anticrime program devised by Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly, in which rookie officers join with supervisors to flood the city's toughest neighborhoods. By focusing on such high-crime plateaus, the Police Department is poised to end another year with even less overall crime.
 Yet a stormy economy is not receding.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is tightening budgets and warning of tough financial times. Joblessness is up. Homicides have increased slightly; after dropping to 496 last year -- the lowest number in more than four decades -- the city hit that number last week. By 5 p.m. on Tuesday, the city had 502 homicides, the police said. 
 At the same time, the Police Department, with 94 percent of its $4 billion operating budget devoted to personnel costs, is facing budget reductions of $45.4 million for the remainder of this fiscal year, which ends in June, and $167 million in the 2010 fiscal year. On top of that, City Hall wants the department to find ways to save $285.7 million more.
 After the next cut is made, the Police Department's uniformed force will have shrunk by 4,400 officers, from a peak strength of 40,800 in 2001. The incoming Police Academy class in January will have 250 recruits; the department had previously anticipated hiring 1,100. An additional 1,100 officers set to graduate on Dec. 30 will join the 1,300 officers already in Operation Impact posts -- effectively doubling their strength.
 But if promotions and retirements create dangerous shortfalls in some precincts, some Impact officers may have to be moved to other spots, Mr. Kelly said. ''We've had contracting and expanding numbers of cops in Impact, so the concept will remain,'' the commissioner said in an interview last week. ''But the numbers may vary.''
 When asked if New York could ever return to crime levels seen in the late 1980s, he said: ''Never. We'd never let that happen.''
 A preliminary Police Department analysis of this year's homicides showed that, as in past years, the typical killing occurred indoors, on a weekend night, with a gun fired by someone the victim knew. Among the 280 killings analyzed so far in which the police have identified both the victim and a suspect, 63 were found to have been committed by strangers, the police said.
 But a new trend may be emerging: Guns, while still the deadliest weapon, were used in fewer cases citywide, 272, down from 298 last year. Conversely, the number of people killed by knives or other sharp instruments spiked, to 123 from 76 last year. Other methods included ''blunt impact,'' or a beating with an object; strangulation; and arson.
 In the 75th Precinct, where crime levels have been driven down from peaks reached two decades ago, Mr. Kelly said he was still committed to supporting a system in which the entire 5.5-square-mile precinct is treated as one large Impact zone divided into three parts.
 Inspector David P. Barrere, the precinct's commander since 2005, said Operation Impact had put officers in the midst of crime, forcing criminals to relocate out of the areas where they are comfortable.
 The officers' presence might change the path a drug dealer takes from a stash house to a corner where he sells narcotics. It might alter a gunman's escape path from the scene of a robbery, or alter his hideout location.
 Once the criminals are ''displaced,'' said Inspector Barrere, other officers in the precinct -- from anticrime units, narcotics enforcement units or regular patrols -- can swoop in to make arrests. The officers on Impact posts speak with people in the community and pick up tips -- a nickname or a location where crime is prevalent -- and those bits of data can be run down with computers in the precinct or at 1 Police Plaza.
 ''It's faster, smarter and better policing,'' said Inspector Barrere, 43. ''It's more organized, with maps and computers.''
 The crime rate has fallen even though the precinct's overall police head count dropped to 356 officers from 403 officers three years ago. The number of Impact officers has fluctuated, and now there are 89 officers assigned to Impact. The inspector hopes more will join them in January.
 ''If you have to do it with less police officers, does it get more difficult? Absolutely,'' Inspector Barrere said. ''But does that mean we cannot continue to succeed? Absolutely not.''
 Residents of the Pink Houses interviewed the night the Impact officers visited said that they did feel safer than in years past, though crime was still a fact of life. ''It probably is more safe, but everyone still does the same things,'' said Donna Pettiford, 37. ''It hasn't stopped the people in my building from selling drugs.''
 A couple of residents complained that the officers tended to be rude and aggressive in demanding identification. Rob Wright, 40, a Fresh Direct deliveryman, said he kept his company jacket on even when he was off so that the police know he is a working man.
 ''These are kids to me,'' he said of the young officers. ''They have to learn to respect people. If it was another neighborhood, they'd know how to act then, if it was an all-white neighborhood.''
 Paul J. Browne, the department's chief spokesman, said, ''We realize in areas where there is more police contact with the public, there will be some complaints.''
 ''We emphasize in training with our officers that they conduct themselves professionally at all times,'' he added.
 To the west, in Brooklyn's 71st Precinct, Operation Impact officers work in teams of 12, in two shifts each day. In the Impact zone this year, officials say, they have helped drive crime down more than 40 percent in the heart of the precinct, which covers parts of Crown Heights and Flatbush. 
 There have been no killings in that zone, but in the rest of the precinct, homicides are up, to 16 through last weekend from 11 all of last year.
 Deputy Inspector Peter J. Simonetti, the commander of the precinct, said six of the killings were related to gang incidents, a reflection of an increase in gang violence that he said he was addressing. 
 Inspector Simonetti said he hoped to keep the same number of Impact officers in place next year: 48. In a system new to that precinct, Mr. Kelly said, mobile teams of Impact officers will swarm in at times -- groups of officers known as Incident Response Teams.
 ''Everybody would like more cops,'' Deputy Inspector Simonetti said. ''But we will work with what we have.''
 To understand the future of crime fighting in the city, Edward Skyler, the deputy mayor for operations, said one must understand the past. He said that the cut the Police Department is now enduring is small compared with the one it took early in the Bloomberg administration, and that crime has come down by 30 percent in seven years.
 ''It bodes well for their ability to continue to reduce crime even with less resources,'' Mr. Skyler said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Officers Ian Gullo and Kevin Martinez patrol the Louis H. Pink Houses in Brooklyn, part of Operation Impact in the 75th Precinct.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BARRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Despite Slight Increase, Killings Are Still Near A 45-Year Low: This year there were 501 homicides reported in New York City through Dec. 21, an uptick from last year through the same date, when there were 476. However, the number of homicides remains near a 45-year low and about half of the precincts in the city saw a decrease in killings from last year, including some of those with the highest numbers of homicides in recent years.
Homicides In Each Precinct
Homicides in New York City in each year
 Number of New York City Police Officers per 1,000 residents(Source: New York City Police Department) Charts detail various sections of New York City from 1990-2008. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (91%); POLICE FORCES (90%); HOMICIDE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); BUDGET CUTS (85%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); MURDER (75%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); CITIES (70%); MAYORS (67%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008



882 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Some Free Exhibition Tickets? Yanks Can Afford It

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sportsbiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The Yankees unveiled their 2009 recession special on Tuesday: cheap or free tickets to the exhibitions on April 3 and 4 against the Cubs that will open the new Yankee Stadium.
 The good-will gesture is nice enough, but a better one would have been to charge nothing at all (a nod to the huge savings the Yankees are receiving from city-issued tax-exempt bonds) and ask fans, as they enter and meander the broad concourses, to donate to food banks or other charities so financially strained in this dreadful economy.
 Lonn Trost, the team's chief operating officer, said the team contemplated free tickets for everybody, but felt the logistics of giveaways might have gotten out of control. 
 ''We're just beginning to learn the building,'' he said.
 The Yankees are charging full season-ticket holders nothing to occupy their designated seats during the exhibitions; once those seats are allocated, partial season-ticket holders can buy their seats (for $45 and $50 at field level; $20 and $45 at the upper level, and $20 and $35 at the terrace level). The real bargains will be the 25-cent bleacher and $1.10 grandstand seats, a rollback to what similar tickets cost a crowd full of men and women in their finery when the original stadium opened on April 18, 1923.
 Whatever is left after that will be sold to the public. Trost said that thousands of seats would be available, but he added that he did not know how many because the relocation of full and partial season-ticket holders from the old to the new stadium was far from complete. And not every season-ticket holder will want to see the games, freeing seats for the public.
 (The Mets have priced tickets at $5 to $50 for their April 3-4 exhibitions against the Red Sox to open Citi Field, and will sell them in the same order the Yankees are.)
 Those attending the Bronx or Flushing open houses will soon after discover the high price of attending regular-season games. Those costs rose with numbing regularity in a flush economy, but they are now, in most ways, more expensive and, more than ever, less affordable. Yankees fans on full-season plans are paying from $12 a game for bleacher seats to $325 for (sort-of) field-level seats. And then there are the 1,800 seats closest to the field that cost $500 to $2,500 each, not all of which are sold.
 ''They're extracting lots of money from us folks, but they give us nothing,'' said Thomas Malmud, a lawyer who is paying $110 a game in a Yankees season-ticket plan he buys with a group. Speaking shortly after the Yankees signed Mark Teixeira for $180 million over eight years, he said: ''Did you hear the Yankees are buying the rest of the A.L. East? Talk about a bailout; Bush should have gone for help to the Yankees.'' 
 This is a weird time to observe the Yankees economy in action. They are the same Yankees in a recession they don't have to bow to, at least not yet. They are in a financial orbit further removed than ever from other teams, with a new stadium and the cash-producing YES Network. They lopped off more than $80 million in salaries from last season's payroll and have moved expeditiously to use most of that reserve to sign Teixeira, C. C. Sabathia and A. J. Burnett. 
 Their $200-million-plus payroll last season generated a $26.9 million luxury-tax bill, the highest in baseball. The new stadium will generate more revenue than the old one did, enabling them to pay, or overpay, for still more players, further distancing them from other teams historically willing to be big spenders, like the Tigers, the Red Sox, the Angels and the Dodgers. Only one of those teams, the Tigers, has even a relatively new stadium, but that's in economically reeling Detroit, where the automakers are clinging to survival.
 The Mets' ability to fully capitalize on enhanced stadium revenue may be clouded by Bernard L. Madoff's suspected theft from the real estate company owned by Fred Wilpon, the Mets' principal owner. The team has said its financial operations will not be affected. But if the Mets resist signing major free agents they need, the Madoff factor, right or wrong, will be raised as the reason, not good judgment or financial conservatism.
 But the Mets (and the Yankees) have something Madoff couldn't make off with: the ability to deduct their construction debt payments, maintenance and other stadium costs from the revenue they share with other teams. The Yankees have issued $942.5 million in tax-free bonds and the Mets $547 million through the city's Industrial Development Authority. They could be approved next month by the I.D.A. for $341.2 million more.

GRAPHIC: CHART: What You Can Expect to Pay: 2009 ticket prices at the new Yankee Stadium.(Source: Yankees.com) Chart details full season and 41 game plan pricing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (71%); FOOD CHARITIES (70%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (70%); RELOCATIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (55%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008



883 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; GENERATION FAITHFUL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2525 words

HEADLINE: Jordanian Students Rebel, Embracing Conservative Arm of Islam

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Mona el-Naggar contributed reporting.

 BODY:
AMMAN, Jordan -- Muhammad Fawaz is a very serious college junior with a stern gaze and a reluctant smile that barely cloaks suppressed anger. He never wanted to attend Jordan University. He hates spending hours each day commuting.
As a high school student, Mr. Fawaz, 20, had dreamed of earning a scholarship to study abroad. But that was impossible, he said, because he did not have a ''wasta,'' or connection. In Jordan, connections are seen as essential for advancement and the wasta system is routinely cited by young people as their primary grievance with their country.
So Mr. Fawaz decided to rebel. He adopted the serene, disciplined demeanor of an Islamic activist. In his sophomore year he was accepted into the student group affiliated with the Muslim Brotherhood, Jordan's largest, most influential religious, social and political movement, one that would ultimately like to see the state governed by Islamic law, or Shariah. Now he works to recruit other students to the cause.
''I find there is justice in the Islamic movement,'' Mr. Fawaz said one day as he walked beneath the towering cypress trees at Jordan University. ''I can express myself. There is no wasta needed.'' 
Across the Middle East, young people like Mr. Fawaz, angry, alienated and deprived of opportunity, have accepted Islam as an agent of change and rebellion. It is their rock 'n' roll, their long hair and love beads. Through Islam, they defy the status quo and challenge governments seen as corrupt and incompetent.
These young people -- 60 percent of those in the region are under 25 -- are propelling a worldwide Islamic revival, driven by a thirst for political change and social justice. That fervor has popularized a more conservative interpretation of the faith.
''Islamism for us is what pan-Arabism was for our parents,'' said Naseem Tarawnah, 25, a business writer and blogger, who is not part of the movement.
The long-term implications of this are likely to complicate American foreign policy calculations, making it more costly to continue supporting governments that do not let secular or moderate religious political movements take root.
Washington will also be likely to find it harder to maintain the policy of shunning leaders of groups like the Brotherhood in Egypt, or Hamas in Gaza, or Hezbollah in Lebanon, which command tremendous public sympathy.
Leaders of Muslim countries have tried to appease public sentiment while doing all they can to discourage the West from engaging religious movements directly. They see the prospect of a thaw in relations with the West, and see these groups as a threat to their monopoly on power.
Authoritarian governments view relative moderation as more of a political challenge than extremism, which is a security problem that can be contained through harsh methods.
''What happens if Islamists accepted the peace process and became more pragmatic?'' said Muhammad Abu Rumman, research editor at the newspaper Al Ghad in Amman. ''People see them as less corrupt and as the only real opposition. Israel and the U.S. might look at them differently. The regime is afraid of the Brotherhood when it becomes more pragmatic.''
The financial crisis only adds to the anxiety of governments in the Middle East that had hoped economic development could appease their citizens, create jobs for legions of unemployed and underemployed young people and dilute the appeal of Islamic movements. But the crisis and the drop in oil prices have hit hard, throwing the brakes on once-booming economies in the Persian Gulf region, and modest economic growth elsewhere in the region.
In this environment, governments are forced to confront a reality of their own creation. By choking off democracy and free speech, the only space where groups could gather and discuss critical ideas became the mosque, and the only movements that had room to prosper were religion-based.
Today, the search for identity in the Middle East no longer involves tension between the secular and religious. Religion has won.
The struggle, instead, is over how to define an Islamic society and government. Zeinah Hamdan, 24, has traveled a typical journey in Jordan. She says she wants a more religious government guided by Shariah law, and she took the head scarf at a younger age than anyone else in her family.
But when she was in college, she was offended when an Islamist student activist chastised her for shaking a young man's hand. She wants to be a modern religious woman, and she defines that as working and socializing in a coed environment.
''If we implement Shariah law, we will be more comfortable,'' she said. ''But what happens is, the people who come to power are extremists.''
Like others here, she is torn between her discomfort with what she sees as the extreme attitudes of the Muslim Brotherhood and her alienation from a government she does not consider to be Islamic enough. ''The middle is very difficult,'' she said.
Focus on Popular Causes
Under a bright midday sun one recent day, Mr. Fawaz and his allies in the Islamic student movement put on green baseball caps that read, in Arabic, ''Islamic Current of Jordan University'' and prepared to demonstrate. Mr. Fawaz carried a large poster board reading, ''We are with you Gaza.''
The university protest reflected the tactics of the Muslim Brotherhood in the country as a whole: precisely organized, deliberately nonthreatening and focused on popular causes here such as the Palestinians. The Brotherhood says it supports democracy and moderation, but its commitment to pluralism, tolerance and compromise has never been tested in Jordan.
Mr. Fawaz and about 200 other students stood in a straight line, extending nearly two city blocks, parallel to the traffic on the major roadway in front of the university. More than half of the students were women, many with their faces veiled.
State security men in plain clothes hurried up and down the line. ''Brother, for God's sake, when will you be angry?'' one security agent screamed into his phone, recording for headquarters the slogan on a student's placard.
At 12:30 p.m., the male students stepped into the road, blocking traffic, while the women rushed off to the sidewalk and melted back into the campus. One minute later, they walked out of traffic, took off their caps and folded up their signs, tucked them into computer bags and went back to school.
''I want to be able to express what I want; I want freedom,'' Mr. Fawaz said, after returning to the campus. His glasses always rest crooked on his face, making him look younger, and a bit out of sorts. ''I don't want to be afraid to express my opinion.''
Mr. Fawaz grew up in a small village called Anjara, near Ajloun, about 50 miles from Amman. His father grew up in the Jordan Valley and worked as a nurse in Irbid. Mr. Fawaz said he was 8 years old he was first invited to ''leadership retreats'' with a youth organization of the Brotherhood.
When he was 13, the youth group took him on a minor pilgrimage to Mecca. So, he said, he had been enticed by religion at an early age. But he only decided to become politically active -- and to join the Brotherhood -- when he was denied a scholarship to study abroad.
While there are no official statistics on student membership in the Brotherhood, only a fraction of Jordan University students are formally affiliated. Yet many others say they share the same vague sense of discontent and yearning, the same embrace of the Brotherhood's slogan, ''Islam Is the Solution,'' a resonant catchall in the face of many problems.
The university, with about 30,000 students from across the country, has long served as a proxy battlefield for Jordan's competing interests.
Competing Loyalties
In Jordan, unlike Egypt, the Muslim Brotherhood is legal, with a political party and a vast network of social services. It also has a political party, called the Islamic Action Front. While some fear it as too extreme, others argue that it has sold out by working within a political system they see as corrupt and un-Islamic. On campus, the Islamists try to build sympathy, handing out study sheets or copying notes for students.
Mr. Fawaz decided this year to run as an Islamist candidate for the student council, an influential organization with its own budget and the right to put up posters, distribute fliers and hold on-campus events.
The Islamic students' movement had boycotted the elections for years to protest a change of election rules that called for appointing -- not electing -- half of the council's 80 members. The rule change, decreed by the former university president, was made in order to block the Islamists, who were the most organized group on campus, from controlling the council.
That is a direct echo of how the state has long tried to contain the Islamist movement in Jordan. The Brotherhood is allowed to operate, but the government and the security services broadly control the outcome of elections.
Indeed, as Islamist movements have swelled, governments across the Middle East have chosen both to contain and to embrace them. Many governments have aggressively moved to roll back the few democratic practices that had started to take root in their societies, and to prevent Islamists from winning power through the voting booth. That risks driving the leaders and the followers of Islamic organizations toward extremism.
At the same time, many governments have tried to appease popular Islamist fervor. Jordan recently granted a Muslim Brotherhood-aligned newspaper the right to publish daily instead of weekly; held private talks with Hamas leaders; arrested a poet, saying he had insulted Islam by using verses of the Koran in love poems; and shut down restaurants that had served alcohol during Ramadan, though they had been licensed by the state to do so.
This year, the new president of Jordan University permitted all student council seats to be elected, but with rules in place that would, again, make it nearly impossible for the Islamist bloc to have control.
Two days before the voting took place, Mr. Fawaz was campaigning on the steps of the education building, dressed in his best suit and tie. His campaign message to the students was simply, ''For your sake.''
Running as an Islamist risks consequences: Mr. Fawaz said that he was approached by a student in his class who he believed was delivering a message from the security services. ''He told me that they will write about me; I will never get a job,'' Mr. Fawaz said.
But even when the police ordered him to take down his posters on election day, he remained resolute and confident.
''Everybody knows that I am going to win,'' Mr. Fawaz said, without sounding boastful. ''Because I represent the Islamic movement.''
But he did not win. Instead, a candidate representing a large tribe from the city of Salt won, reflecting the loyalty to bonds of kinship and family heritage even as tribal culture has begun to absorb more conservative Islamic practices and beliefs.
Yet Mr. Fawaz was untroubled. ''What is important for me,'' he said, ''is to serve the movement by spreading the word among the students.''
Amjad al-Absy, 28, remembers the moment when he pledged to join the Muslim Brotherhood. He was 15 and he was identified by Brotherhood recruiters when he was playing soccer in a Palestinian refugee camp. He described how the Brotherhood monitors young men -- when they play soccer, go to school, to mosque, to work, as well as in the street and singles out those who appear receptive.
''Once you say yes, they put you in a ring, in a family,'' said Mr. Absy. ''Outside of the Brotherhood, there is no concern for young men, there is no respect. You are alone.''
Mr. Absy and his friend Tarak Naimat, 24, said that while they were students at the university, they had helped to recruit other young men.
''In the computer lab, in the mosque, you buddy up,'' Mr. Naimat said. ''Then you participate in events together. Then he becomes a member. If he's advanced, it can take six months. If less, maybe two years.''
The appeal, Mr. Naimat said, was simple: ''It gives you the feeling you can change things, you can act, you can be a leader. You feel like you are part of something important.''
Recruiters to the movement operate in a social atmosphere far more receptive than in the past. Every one of five young men talking near the cafeteria of the university recently insisted that the only way Jordan would have democracy was under an Islamic government, which is what the Brotherhood says it wants to achieve.
Muhammad Safi is a 23-year-old with neatly gelled hair and a television-white smile who described himself as the least religious student at the table. He said he had lived in the United States for five years and was eager to marry an American so he could return. Yet he declared: ''An Islamic state would be better. At least it would take care of people.''
A Political Crossroads
The task facing Middle East governments and Islamic leaders is to figure out how to harness the energy of the Islamic revival. The young -- the demographic bulge that is defining the future of the Islamic world and the way the West will have to engage it -- have embraced Islam with all the fervor of the counterculture.
But the movement is still up for grabs -- whether it will lead to greater extremism, even terrorism in some cases, and whether the vague dissatisfaction of young people will translate into political engagement or disaffection.
So the cycle is likely to continue, with religious identification fueled not only by the Islamic movements, but also by governments eager to use religion to enhance legitimacy and to satisfy demands of their citizens. That, in turn, broadens support for groups like the Brotherhood, while undermining support for the government, said many researchers, intellectuals and political scientists in Jordan.
The battle lines are clear on the campus of Jordan University. Bilal Abu Sulaih, 24, is a leader in the Islamic student movement. He returned to school this year to study Islamic law after being suspended for one year for organizing protests, he said. During the year off, he said, he worked as a student organizer for the political party office of the Brotherhood. ''We are trying to participate,'' he said of the movement's role on campus. ''We do not want to overpower everyone else.''
But his reassurances were brushed aside as another student confronted him. ''It's not true,'' shouted Ahmed Qabai, 28, who was seated on a nearby bench. He thrust a finger in Mr. Sulaih's direction.
''You want to try to control everything,'' Mr. Qabai said. ''I've seen it before, your people talking to women and asking them why they're not veiled.''
Mr. Sulaih, embarrassed by the challenge, said, ''It's not true.''
Mr. Qabai made it clear that he detested the Muslim Brotherhood, getting more and more worked up, until finally he was screaming. But what he said summed up the challenge ahead for Jordan, and for so many governments in the region: ''We all know Islam is the solution. That we agree on.''
GENERATION FAITHFUL: This is the 10th in a series of articles examining the lives of the young across the Muslim world at a time of religious revival.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Muhammad Fawaz is an Islamic activist on the Jordan University campus in Amman.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
SEEKING SUPPORT: Women voted, top, in a student council election at Jordan University in Amman. Above, Muhammad Fawaz, in suit, campaigned.
 DIVERSE APPEALS: Student council campaign posters competed for the attention of passers-by recently at Jordan University.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (88%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); HEZBOLLAH (74%); HAMAS (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (73%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (73%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); PEACE PROCESS (63%); FOREIGN POLICY (61%); WRITERS (61%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (64%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMMAN, JORDAN (90%) JORDAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (79%); LEBANON (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



884 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Moneyball, A Yankees Tree Ornament

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON. 
E-mail: hjaraton@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Add Mark Teixeira to the payroll at $180 million over eight years and sing, tra la la la la, the Red Sox didn't get him.
Stand him next to C. C. Sabathia and A. J. Burnett in the Yankees' roundup of 2008 deluxe free agents -- roughly $420 million invested a year after they spent in the neighborhood of $400 million on Alex Rodriguez, Jorge Posada and Mariano Rivera -- and what can you say if you're a Yankees fan except, Merry Christmas, Happy New Year, and how many days until pitchers and catchers?
In the strictest baseball sense, and especially in consideration of their war with the Red Sox, the Yankees have responded with a swift and able vengeance to their first nonplayoff season since 1993. They have fortified their rotation with the two highest-priced pitchers on the market, burying the competition with their version of holiday green. They waited patiently in the shadows on the leading position player, Teixeira, and swooped in like the Grinch in pinstripes, leaving the Red Sox with nothing under their tree. 
How's that for Moneyball, in the grand Steinbrenner tradition?
Unless you believed first base had to be a position reserved long-term for Derek Jeter or A-Rod, Teixeira always made sense for the Yankees. He is a switch-hitter with at least 100 runs driven in for the last five years, an excellent glove, an infield anchor. Better yet, he was Boston's primary target this off-season. With the Yankees cutting in Tuesday, landing Teixeira, the only way the Sox could match that kind of offensive impact on the free-agent market would be to take back, ahem, Manny Ramirez.
Try polling Red Sox fans on that one, if you've already had enough good cheer this holiday season.
You can't blame New England for feeling bitter now. Losing A-Rod to the Yankees was the best thing to happen to the Red Sox since 1918. Watching Johnny Damon go south had to sting, but as it turned out, no big deal, they won another World Series without him. Teixeira, though, was as good a fit for the Sox as he will be for the Yankees. Had the Sox signed him, they would have moved Kevin Youkilis to third base, freeing them to trade Mike Lowell, soon to be 35, or to use him to strengthen their bench.
After the Sabathia and Burnett signings, it is difficult to fathom how the Red Sox let this happen, no matter how bad the stench is when dealing with Scott Boras. They still have an excellent club, with pitching and balance and young players with upside. They are always calculatingly happy to let the Yankees spend themselves silly to the point of stupid. Maybe that turns out to be the case with one of the pitchers, Burnett being the more logical candidate. But not with Teixeira, 28, beginning what should be his peak years. He is a player the Sox, who do a pretty fair business themselves, should not have conceded to the Yankees for a few extra million.
To quote John Sterling, the Yankees win, thuhuhuhuh Yankees win! Of course, on the field, they have not won a playoff series since 2004, and a World Series since 2000. Do their off-season expenditures speak of prudence or panic? Probably both.
And while they certainly deserve praise for addressing their personnel needs, delivering the goods, it is difficult to comment on the Yankees with the baseball blinders on, without acknowledging that in the world of economic pain that has set upon the country, their audacity and gluttony tend to make the stomach feel queasy.
If there is a deep recession with budget austerity, it is news to the Yankees. While they spend like an OPEC nation when oil was trading at $140 a barrel, they continue to hit the city for sweetheart treatment, most recently for another $259 million in tax-exempt bonds on top of the $940 million they were already given. Their two stadiums stand as reminders -- at least until one is gone -- of precious parkland taken, yet to be replaced and probably never to the specifications that poor Congressional district had before.
It is all about power for the Yankees, like a big batting practice show with fireworks after every drive into the upper deck. They get what they want, with their money or the taxpayers'. The figures defy recession, or reason.
The Yankees just received a bill from Major League Baseball for $26.9 million (for a grand total of $148.5 million in the six years since the luxury tax was created to exert some control over big-market spending, or 90 percent of the total tax). They shrugged it off and handed Teixeira $180 million.
The pinstriped express rolls on, in excess.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mark Teixeira, left, has joined the Yankee freeagent acquisitions A. J. Burnett, far right, and C. C. Sabathia in an outpouring of holiday green.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FAR LEFT, TONY DEJAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS
BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
The Yanks filled a hole at first and pre-empted Boston when they signed Mark Teixeira to an eight-year, $180 million deal.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B12) CHARTS: Yankees Vs. the World (Yankees Win): The Yankees have signed three free agents for more money than the rest of the major league teams have spent on 30 free-agent signings this off-season.
$423.5 million: C. C. Sabathia, A. J. Burnett, Mark Teixeira
$296.6 million: Jeremy Affeldt, Casey Blake, Aaron Boone, Russell Branyan, Doug Brocail, Ryan Dempster, Alan Embree, Adam Everett, Kyle Farnsworth, Rafael Furcal, Mike Hampton, Bobby Howry, Raul Ibanez, Cesar Izturis, Jorge Julio, Mike Lamb, Mike Lincoln, Felipe Lopez, Mark Loretta, Jason Michaels, Trever Miller, Jamie Moyer, Greg Norton, Nick Punto, Edgar Renteria, Arthur Rhodes, Juan Rivera, Francisco Rodriguez, Ramon Vazquez, Kerry Wood
 What $180 Million Buys: Mark Teixeira's career highlights. Charts detail player info. (pg. B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (75%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); CHRISTMAS (75%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (93%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (89%); DEREK JETER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (54%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



885 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
Generation Faithful: A Revival in Jordan
 A slide show and a blog post on the Islamic revival in Jordan. Also, Arabic-language audio interviews with young Jordanians and updates on the subjects of previous articles in the series. 
 nytimes.com/world
 AUDIO: THE YEAR IN MUSIC
 In a special edition of the weekly Popcast, Times music critics and reporters look back at 2008. Also, an interview with Kyp Malone of TV on the Radio.
 nytimes.com/music
 AUDIO: COMFORT ME WITH APPLES
 Frank Bruni and Pete Wells discuss Braeburn, a rustic restaurant with an apple theme in the West Village.
 nytimes.com/dining
 UrbanEye
 Christmas Downtown
 In a new UrbanEye video, Melena Ryzik reports from (and dresses for) a white party in Lower Manhattan benefiting the Gay Men's Health Crisis.
 nytimes.com/arts
 COMMENTS: PUTIN'S RUSSIA
 Join a conversation about Vladimir Putin's Russia and read comments posted on a Russian-language Web site on translations of the articles in the Kremlin Rules series. 
 nytimes.com/world
 BUDGET TRAVEL GUIDE
 In this guide to vacations that won't break the bank, tips on last-minute holiday travel and advice on saving money in New York City and on Martha's Vineyard.
 nytimes.com/travel
 Economix Great Books On the Depression
 A list of suggested reading on the Great Depression, courtesy of Barry Gewen, an editor at the Book Review.
 nytimes.com/economix
 AFTER DEADLINE
 A weekly newsroom critique of grammar, style and usage in The Times. This week: danglers again.
 nytimes.com/topics
 INTERACTIVE: THE YEAR IN CRIME
 An interactive graphic shows murders in New York City by police precinct over six selected years, going back to 1990. Homicides in the city are near a 45-year low.
 nytimes.com/nyregion
 TierneyLab Science Adviser's Unsustainable Bet
 A bet made by John Holdren, the next presidential science adviser, revealed his pessimism about whether a rich modern society is sustainable.
 nytimes.com/tierneylab
 Question of the Day: What should the new president do to change the nation's policies toward food? Share you thoughts at: nytimes.com/dining

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); MUSIC (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); RELIGION (78%); MUSIC REVIEWS (77%); THEME RESTAURANTS (75%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); CITY LIFE (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); LEISURE TRAVEL (71%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); CHRISTMAS (69%); HOMICIDE (68%); MURDER (68%); BOOK REVIEWS (66%); PUBLIC POLICY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (56%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008



886 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S ON TODAY

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (13) CHRISTMAS WITH THE MORMON TABERNACLE CHOIR FEATURING THE KING'S SINGERS ''O Holy Night,'' ''Sussex Carol,'' ''The Little Drummer Boy,'' ''The Twelve Days of Christmas'' and other holiday songs are performed by the King's Singers, above, with the Mormon Tabernacle Choir and Orchestra at Temple Square in Salt Lake City. 
 7 A.M. (NBC) TODAY Lady Antebellum and Harry Connick Jr. perform. Amy Sedaris is a guest. And for those who still haven't unearthed the Christmas tree ornaments, there's a segment on five-minute holiday decorations. 
 9 A.M. (ABC) LIVE WITH REGIS AND KELLY Regis Philbin and Kelly Ripa look back at memorable moments from past years and give a nod to their favorite holiday guests and musical performances.
 11 A.M. (ABC) THE VIEW Jennifer Aniston talks about her life and her new movie, ''Marley & Me.'' And then, tips on how to dress like celebrities (including Ms. Aniston) while on a budget.
 8 P.M. (TBS) A CHRISTMAS STORY (1983) By now, everyone knows that all Ralphie (Peter Billingsley, as a 9-year-old from 1940s Hammond, Ind.) wants for Christmas is a Red Ryder BB Gun. But will Santa deliver? For viewers who never tire of hearing the answer to that question, TBS begins its annual 24-hour marathon, with screenings every two hours until 8 p.m. on Thursday.
 8 P.M. (NBC) IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE (1946) Frank Capra's cast-iron cheer, packaged around a suicidal businessman (James Stewart) and a guardian angel (Henry Travers).
 8 P.M. (Disney) THE SANTA CLAUSE 2 (2002) This time around, Santa (Tim Allen) must marry by Christmas Eve to save the holiday. 
 8 P.M. (ABC Family) DR. SEUSS' HOW THE GRINCH STOLE CHRISTMAS (2000) Jim Carrey, at right with Taylor Momsen, plays the Scrooge-like curmudgeon out to quash holiday festivities. 
 8 P.M. (Lifetime Movie Network) A CHRISTMAS WEDDING (2006) Did someone call a wedding planner? Emily (Sarah Paulson), a workaholic real estate developer, has been dreaming of her wedding day her entire life. And in her dreams it was perfect. But when she is called away for work a month before her holiday nuptials, it's up to her procrastinating fiance, Ben (Eric Mabius), to handle the last-minute preparations. 
 8 P.M. (TCM) BOB'S CHRISTMAS EVE PICKS Robert Osborne programs a few holiday favorites, starting with ''The Cheaters'' (1945), in which an unemployed actor (Joseph Schildkraut) tries to save a young innocent (Ona Munson) from greedy New Yorkers on the verge of bankruptcy. The evening continues with ''Cluny Brown'' (1946) at 9:30; ''Remember the Night'' (1940) at 11:15; ''Meet Me in St. Louis'' (1944) at 1 a.m.; and ''Shop Around the Corner'' (1940) at 3.
 8 P.M. (Fox Movie Channel) HOME ALONE 2: LOST IN NEW YORK (1992) Kevin (Macaulay Culkin, left) winds up in the Big Apple when he boards the wrong plane. And like every lost kid, he lands a penthouse at the Plaza.
 9 P.M. (Lifetime) THE CHRISTMAS SHOES (2002) A workaholic lawyer (Rob Lowe) rediscovers the meaning of love and the holiday season when he helps a little boy (Max Morrow) buy a pair of red shoes for his dying mother (Maggie Andrews) to wear when she goes to heaven.
 9 P.M. (Hallmark) THE MOST WONDERFUL TIME OF THE YEAR (2008) Hallmark repeats this television movie, originally shown on Dec. 13. In it a woman's disdain for Christmas has spread to her 6-year-old son, who doesn't believe in Santa Claus. When her uncle, a retired cop played by Henry Winkler, shows up for the holidays with a snowbound stranger, she begins to tame her inner Scrooge.
 9 P.M. (Sundance) SPECTACLE: ELVIS COSTELLO WITH ... Mr. Costello interviews James Taylor and performs a couple of numbers with him.
 11:35 P.M. (CBS) VOICES OF CHRISTMAS Reflections on the holiday by clergy members and lay people are accompanied by music.
 11:35 P.M. (NBC) CHRISTMAS EVE MASS 2008 Pope Benedict XVI celebrates midnight Mass at St. Peter's Basilica in the Vatican. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (93%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (92%); RELIGION (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); MUSIC (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); MOVIE REVIEWS (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); REAL ESTATE (70%)

PERSON: REGIS PHILBIN (68%); JENNIFER ANISTON (66%); JIM CARREY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%) UTAH, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008



887 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Los Angeles Art Museum to Receive a $30 Million Rescue

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT and JORI FINKEL

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
The Museum of Contemporary Art, known for its impressive collection of postwar paintings and sculpture but also for an ambitious exhibition program that has driven it to the brink of financial collapse, said Tuesday it had negotiated a $30 million bailout with Eli Broad, this city's leading cultural patron. 
 The museum said the rescue plan, which involves a restructuring of its management, would allow it to maintain its current headquarters, seen as a linchpin in the revitalization of downtown. It will also prevent the museum from selling off artwork. 
 The plan avoids a painful embarrassment for Los Angeles, which has promoted itself as a leading force in contemporary art. 
 Institutions here have long struggled to raise adequate endowment and operating funds from local business and entertainment leaders. But with the rescue plan now in place, the museum said Tuesday, its trustees have pledged to give more than $20 million over the next five years to support the endowment and operations.
 Mr. Broad's foundation has offered to match the first $15 million as the money is received and to provide an additional $3 million per year for exhibitions for five years. 
 ''Today is a great day -- it's really the rebirth of MOCA,'' Mr. Broad said at a news conference at the museum, known by that acronym. The president of the Los Angeles City Council, Eric Garcetti, said, ''We've known for years that MOCA loves L.A., but today we know that L.A. loves MOCA as well.'' 
 But the official celebratory tone was undercut by artists in attendance who voiced frustration with the secrecy in which the deal was brokered. Diana Thater and Cindy Bernard, two artists who started an online Facebook group, MOCA Mobilization, to press for the museum's survival, lamented the timing of the announcement -- on the cusp of a long holiday -- and the absence of a question-and-answer session at the news conference. 
 ''It's like President Bush at 5 p.m. on a Friday making major announcements,'' Ms. Bernard said. ''It undercuts our ability to have a real discussion, and it underscores MOCA's lack of transparency.''
 As part of the overhaul, Jeremy Strick, the museum's director since 1999, has resigned, and a new chief executive, Charles Young, has been named. Mr. Young, 76, a chancellor emeritus of the University of California, Los Angeles, has little museum experience but is known to be friendly with Mr. Broad. Mr. Young will oversee the museum's day-to-day operations. 
 The museum also announced the creation of an advisory committee whose members are John Lane, the former director of the Dallas Museum of Art; Joel Wachs, the president of the Andy Warhol Foundation in New York; John Walsh, the former director of the J. Paul Getty Museum; and Gary Cypres, a financial adviser. Mr. Cypres is married to Kathi Cypres, a museum trustee.
 David Johnson, a co-chairman of the Museum of Contemporary Art's board, said the committee ''has no fiduciary duty'' but would ''help the board to think about directions and leadership.'' He said he played an instrumental role in assembling the group. 
 Mr. Young, a longtime colleague of Mr. Broad, was the U.C.L.A. chancellor when Mr. Broad served on the board of what was then called the U.C.L.A. Hammer Museum. Mr. Young said his first challenge at the museum would be ''to see what budget cuts can be made most quickly'' without jeopardizing programming. ''We have to use a scalpel and not a sledgehammer,'' he said.
 Mr. Broad said he would not be involved in the museum's search for a new director. Asked about his potential role in choosing Mr. Strick's successor, Mr. Young said, ''I think I will be involved -- that's the board's decision.
 ''My advice will be to postpone it for some time,'' he continued, ''until things get to a point where you have an attractive opportunity to offer, where you could attract a better candidate than you could now.'' 
 Under the rescue plan, the museum said it would also begin a $75 million fund-raising campaign, hire ''reputable investment advisers'' to manage the endowment, and exhibit its seldom-seen permanent collection ''widely, consistent with customary museum practices.''
 Such steps are intended to address severe criticisms that have been leveled at the museum as its financial condition worsened in recent years. Its endowment has declined to about $6 million from roughly $40 million at the beginning of the decade, in large part because the museum has drawn on it to pay for operations, a frowned-upon practice in the nonprofit world.
 The museum chose Mr. Broad's offer over a competing offer to merge with the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, a larger institution that in February opened a new building devoted to contemporary art that was paid for -- and named after -- Mr. Broad.
 Many museum supporters opposed the Museum of Contemporary Art's being subsumed into the county museum. But many also expressed doubt about the offer from Mr. Broad, a former businessman known for maintaining strict control over his ventures. 
 To address concerns about his power in the city's cultural world, Mr. Broad and the Museum of Contemporary Art agreed that ''any responsible party'' who would agree to the same terms of support for the museum could replace him within 90 days.
 Paul Schimmel will remain in place as the museum's chief curator. Also remaining are the board's co-chairmen, Mr. Johnson and Tom Unterman, who served in oversight roles when the museum repeatedly spent restricted endowment funds to pay for daily operations.
 The California attorney general is conducting an audit of the museum's finances to determine whether the museum violated any of the restrictions on gifts it received that were used to pay for operating expenses. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles Young, right, who has been named the new chief executive of the Museum of Contemporary Art, with Eli Broad, who is financing the museum's bailout.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AXEL KOESTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); PAINTING (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); BAILOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (63%); PRESS CONFERENCES (58%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: ELI BROAD (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008



888 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: For Now, Obama Proves to Be Elusive Target for G.O.P.

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
It's not so easy being the loyal opposition these days.
 Two months after Barack Obama's election, Republicans are struggling to figure out how -- or even whether -- to challenge or criticize him as he prepares to assume the presidency.
 The president-elect is proving to be an elusive and frustrating target. He has defied attempts to be framed ideologically. His cabinet picks have won wide praise. An effort by the Republican National Committee to link Mr. Obama to the unfolding scandal involving Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich of Illinois and the accusations that he tried to sell Mr. Obama's Senate seat was dismissed by no less a figure than Senator John McCain, the Republican whom Mr. Obama beat for the presidency. 
 The toughest criticism of Mr. Obama during this period -- in fact, the only real criticism of Mr. Obama during this period -- has come not from the right but from the left, primarily over his selection of Rick Warren, a leading opponent of gay marriage, to deliver the invocation on Inauguration Day. 
 There are plenty of battles ahead that may provide Republicans an opportunity to find their footing. They will no doubt find arguments to use against Mr. Obama when he starts to lay out the details of his economic stimulus plans, or signals how aggressively he wants to fulfill a pledge to labor to back a bill that would take away employers' right to demand a secret ballot-election to determine if workers wanted to unionize. And Mr. Obama is the beneficiary of the kind of post-election honeymoon Washington hasn't seen in 16 years. (Bill Clinton, considering his own rocky introduction to Washington in 1992, might argue it has in fact been even longer than that.)
 Still, this image of Republican uncertainty is a testimony to the political skills of the incoming president, and a reminder of just how difficult a situation the Republican Party is in. More than that, though, Republicans and Democrats say, it is evidence of the unusual place the country is in now: buoyed by prospect of an inauguration while at the same time deeply worried about the country's future. It is going to be complicated making a case against Mr. Obama, many Republicans said, in an environment where people simply want him to succeed and may not have much of an appetite for partisan politics.
 ''I think at a time like this, at a time of crisis, a lot of people would like to see people try to work together, especially with Obama not even being sworn in yet,'' said Saul Anuzis, the Michigan Republican chairman and a leading candidate in the fight to be the next Republican National Committee leader. ''What you don't want to be is the party that's always attacking or being negative with no alternatives.''
 And in his blog, Mr. Anuzis wrote: ''Where necessary, we should stand for what is right and forcefully be the loyal opposition. But partisan politics in times like these for the sake of politics is not healthy.''
 The situation Republican leaders find themselves in is reminiscent of the frustration displayed by Senator McCain and Hillary Rodham Clinton in the presidential contest. First as a candidate and now as president-elect, Mr. Obama has proved deft at skirting ideological definitions; that has become even more clear as he has put together his cabinet and left open his options on issues like repealing tax cuts for the wealthy. The campaign clearly taught him how to avoid political mistakes and how to clean them up quickly; when at his first news conference he made an unkind remark about Nancy Reagan -- a joke about her holding seances in the White House -- he called her and apologized before the evening news.
 Beyond that, the historic nature of his presidency -- of being the first African-American president, and all the interest that has generated here and abroad -- has complicated things even more for the opposition party.
 The Republican National Committee, which is in the midst of an internal battle over who will be its next chairman, appears to be having particular trouble in finding the right tone. Since Election Day, it has continued with the daily patter of attacks on Mr. Obama that it offered right through the general election campaign, a strategy pushed by the chairman, Mike Duncan, but one that clearly does not have universal support.
 Its attempt to link Mr. Obama to the ongoing corruption scandal in Illinois drew criticism not only from Mr. McCain but also Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker.
 ''I was saddened to learn that at a time of national trial, when a president-elect is preparing to take office in the midst of the worst financial crisis in over seventy years, that the Republican National Committee is engaged in the sort of negative, attack politics that the voters rejected in the 2006 and 2008 election cycles,'' Mr. Gingrich wrote in a letter to Mr. Duncan.
 For his part, Mr. Duncan, who is seeking re-election as chairman when Republicans gather here in January -- a fight that is providing a backdrop to the party's ongoing debate -- said he thought there was a role for his party to act as ''the loyal opposition: to ask questions, agree where you can, but ask questions all the time.''
 Mr. Duncan acknowledged that this was not an easy task, particularly now, however, though he suggested it will get easier after Mr. Obama takes office and has to deal with the problems and fulfill his campaign promises.
 ''We're in a honeymoon stage right now and everybody wants to se him succeed,'' he said, though he quickly added that he was not frustrated.
 ''It's too early,'' Mr. Duncan said. ''We're still in this honeymoon phase and we will hold him accountable. We will work with him and try to make sure he keeps his promises.''
 Katon Dawson, the South Carolina Republican chairman who is another candidate to lead the party, said that the task for Republicans was clear. ''If I were the national chairman, I would hold the administration accountable for doing what it said it was going to do,'' Mr. Dawson said.
 How and when to do that, he said, was another matter. ''It matters in the tenor and the tone and the substance,'' Mr. Dawson said. ''Right now there isn't a public policy yet. So it's probably premature.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BLAGOJEVICH CORRUPTION SCANDAL (78%); POLITICS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); SCANDALS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (52%); MARRIAGE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008



889 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1581 words

HEADLINE: Is a New Food Policy on His List?

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
FROM the moment it was clear that Barack Obama was going to be president, people who have dedicated their lives to changing how America eats thought they had found their St. Nicholas. 
 It wasn't long before the letters to Santa began piling up.
 Ruth Reichl, the editor of Gourmet magazine, wants a new high-profile White House chef who cooks delicious local food. Wayne Pacelle, head of the Humane Society of the United States, wants policies requiring better treatment for farm animals. 
 Parents want better public-school lunches. Consumer groups are dreaming of a new, stronger food safety system. Nutrition reformers want prisoners to be fed less soy. And a farmer in Maine is asking the president-elect to plow under an acre of White House lawn for an organic vegetable garden.
 Although Mr. Obama has proposed changes in the nation's farm and rural policies and emphasizes the connection between diet and health, there is nothing to indicate he has a special interest in a radical makeover of the way food is grown and sold. 
 Still, the dream endures. To advocates who have watched scattered calls for changes in food policy gather political and popular momentum, Mr. Obama looks like their kind of president. 
 Not only does he seem to possess a more-sophisticated palate than some of his recent predecessors, but he will also take office in an age when organic food is mainstream, cooking competitions are among the top-rated TV shows and books calling for an overhaul in the American food system are best sellers. 
 ''People are so interested in a massive change in food and agriculture that they are dining out on hope now. That is like the main ingredient,'' said Eddie Gehman Kohan, a blogger from Los Angeles who startedObamafoodorama.com to document just about any conceivable link between Mr. Obama and food, whether it is a debate on agriculture policy or an image of Mr. Obama rendered in tiny cupcakes.
 ''He is the first president who might actually have eaten organic food, or at least eats out at great restaurants,'' Ms. Gehman Kohan said. 
 Still, no one is sure just how serious Mr. Obama really is about the politics of food. So like mystery buffs studying the book jacket of ''The Da Vinci Code,'' interested eaters dissect every aspect of his life as it relates to the plate.
 They look for clues in the lunch menus at Sidwell Friends School in Washington, where his two daughters will be eating items like herbes de Provence pita, local pears and organic chopped salad, served with unbleached napkins in a cafeteria with a serious recycling program. They point out that when Mr. Obama was a child, his family used food stamps and that in interviews he has referred to his appreciation of the philosophy put forth by Michael Pollan, the reform-minded food writer. 
 They note with approval that Rahm Emanuel, Mr. Obama's chief of staff, belongs to a synagogue that runs a community supported agriculture program and that his social secretary, Desiree Rogers, is from the food-obsessed city of New Orleans. They also see promising signs in Mr. Obama's fondness for some of Chicago's better restaurants, like Spiaggia and Topolobampo.
 As for Michelle Obama, she has said in interviews that she tries to buy organic food and watches the amount of high-fructose corn syrup in her family's diet. And, as she confided on ''The View'' on ABC, ''We're bacon people.''
 Add it all up and Mr. Obama looks like the first foodie president since Thomas Jefferson. For more recent comparisons, one could look at President Bush, who is a fitness buff but who aligned himself with large agricultural companies like Cargill and Monsanto that some advocates for sustainable agriculture and organic food fight against. 
 President Bill Clinton certainly seemed to love food, but in his White House years his tastes ran more toward Big Macs than grass-fed beef. Only after his presidency, and serious health problems, did he turn his attention to issues of obesity and diet.
 The Obamas are a different kind of first family, said David Kamp, who traced the history of the modern gourmet-food movement in his book, ''The United States of Arugula'' (Broadway, 2006). ''This time we have a Democrat in office that seems to live the dream and speak the language of both food progressivism and personal fitness,'' Mr. Kamp said.
 For many food activists, a shiny new secretary of agriculture was high on the Christmas wish list. 
 One of the first names to come up was Mr. Pollan, who in October wrote an open letter to the future president in The New York Times Magazine, explaining the ways in which he believes the food system needs fixing. 
 Even after Mr. Pollan repeatedly pointed out that he was unqualified and uninterested in the job of overseeing a $97-billion budget and more than 100,000 employees, his supporters kept pushing with more fanaticism than Clay Aiken's Claymates. 
 A couple of longtime Iowans, the celebrity pig farmer Paul Willis and his neighbor Dave Murphy, started a more serious drive. They compiled a list of six candidates who they thought would have the best interests of farm-based rural America and sustainable agriculture at heart. More than 50,000 people signed their petition, the restaurateur Alice Waters and the writer Wendell Berry among them.
 But Santa had other plans. Last week, Mr. Obama appointed Tom Vilsack, the former governor of Iowa, which grows much of the nation's corn and soybeans. Mr. Vilsack has talked about reducing subsidies to some megafarms, supports better treatment of farm animals and wants healthier food in schools. But his selection drew criticism because he is a big fan of alternative fuels like corn-based ethanol and is a supporter of biotechnology, both anathema to people who want to shift government support from large-scale agricultural interests to smaller farms growing food that takes a more direct path to the table. 
 ''Americans were promised 'change,' not just another shill for Monsanto and corporate agribusiness,'' wrote Ronnie Cummins of the Organic Consumers Association, which has promised to fight the confirmation of Mr. Vilsack. Mr. Willis and Mr. Murphy immediately shook off the blow and sent out a new petition to have someone more like-minded placed as undersecretary. 
 Food advocates aren't the only ones whose hopes for the new administration received a quick kick to the curb. A coalition of more than 140 environmental groups and scientists sent letters supporting one candidate to lead the Department of the Interior. Mr. Obama chose someone else. 
 Multiply that by every special interest and it becomes clear that just because changing the food system is the first priority for some, it isn't so for everyone. The pragmatists among the food reformers understand.
 ''This president is taking over when the economy is the worst it has been in our lifetime and we are in the middle of wars,'' said Ann Cooper, the chef who transformed the school food program for the Berkeley Unified School District in California and is about to do the same in Boulder, Colo. ''I think it's somewhere between naive and fairy tale to think his No. 1 focus is going to be on food.''
 Still, she has her own little wish, which is that the new president will move responsibility for school food programs to the Department of Education or the Department of Health and Human Services from the Department of Agriculture. That way, the focus might shift away from the commodity foods that are the backbone of most school lunches and toward menus tailored to the health and development of children.
 Some food-system reformers may have a better chance of getting what they want than others do. A coalition of community-based groups called the U.S. Working Group on the Food Crisis wrote to Mr. Obama asking him to make hunger and the global food crisis a top priority. Their optimism is based on Mr. Obama's promise to abolish childhood hunger by 2015. 
 They are also banking on his desire to tackle climate change and overhaul energy and health care policies.
 ''If he's serious about doing this, then he'll have to address the current problems of our food system, which are inextricably linked to these other problems,'' said Christina Schiavoni of World Hunger Year, which is part of the coalition. ''There's no getting around it.'' 
 In her view and others', diets filled with healthier food produced by less intrusive farming practices can reduce medical problems like obesity and diabetes and be easier on the environment. 
 And even if Mr. Obama can't or won't deliver the changes some are hoping for, maybe he'll just leave a little something in their stockings.
 A new White House chef, maybe? Cristeta Comerford, the first woman to hold the executive chef job, has been in the position since 2005, not long by White House standards. Still, some people think it's time for a change. ''What the president eats could have a major impact on everyone in the country,'' said Ms. Reichl, who along with Ms. Waters and Danny Meyer, the restaurateur, sent a letter to Mr. Obama offering to help him select someone to head the White House kitchen.
 A chef who cooks local and organic food and picks some of it from a presidential garden could change things faster than any cabinet appointment, Ms. Reichl said.
 ''It's like the hat manufacturers being furious because J. F. K. didn't wear a hat, and suddenly everyone in America stopped wearing hats,'' she said. ''It's that simple.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FOR SUSTAINABILITY: Paul Willis, above right and at left, and his Iowa neighbor David Murphy have favorite candidates for top jobs in the Department of Agriculture. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN MALLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D2) DRAWING (DRAWING BY STEVE BRODNER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); ORGANIC FOODS (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); WRITERS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (75%); NUTRITION (75%); AGRICULTURE (73%); FOOD SAFETY (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%); ANIMALS (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (64%); FOOD STAMPS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMANE SOCIETY (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008



890 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Moneyball, A Yankees Tree Ornament

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON. 
E-mail: hjaraton@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Add Mark Teixeira to the payroll at $180 million over eight years and sing, tra la la la la, the Red Sox didn't get him.
Stand him next to C. C. Sabathia and A. J. Burnett in the Yankees' roundup of 2008 deluxe free agents -- roughly $420 million invested a year after they spent in the neighborhood of $400 million on Alex Rodriguez, Jorge Posada and Mariano Rivera -- and what can you say if you're a Yankees fan except, Merry Christmas, Happy New Year, and how many days until pitchers and catchers?
In the strictest baseball sense, and especially in consideration of their war with the Red Sox, the Yankees have responded with a swift and able vengeance to their first nonplayoff season since 1993. They have fortified their rotation with the two highest-priced pitchers on the market, burying the competition with their version of holiday green. They waited patiently in the shadows on the leading position player, Teixeira, and swooped in like the Grinch in pinstripes, leaving the Red Sox with nothing under their tree. 
How's that for Moneyball, in the grand Steinbrenner tradition?
Unless you believed first base had to be a position reserved long-term for Derek Jeter or A-Rod, Teixeira always made sense for the Yankees. He is a switch-hitter with at least 100 runs driven in for the last five years, an excellent glove, an infield anchor. Better yet, he was Boston's primary target this off-season. With the Yankees cutting in Tuesday, landing Teixeira, the only way the Sox could match that kind of offensive impact on the free-agent market would be to take back, ahem, Manny Ramirez.
Try polling Red Sox fans on that one, if you've already had enough good cheer this holiday season.
You can't blame New England for feeling bitter now. Losing A-Rod to the Yankees was the best thing to happen to the Red Sox since 1918. Watching Johnny Damon go south had to sting, but as it turned out, no big deal, they won another World Series without him. Teixeira, though, was as good a fit for the Sox as he will be for the Yankees. Had the Sox signed him, they would have moved Kevin Youkilis to third base, freeing them to trade Mike Lowell, soon to be 35, or to use him to strengthen their bench.
After the Sabathia and Burnett signings, it is difficult to fathom how the Red Sox let this happen, no matter how bad the stench is when dealing with Scott Boras. They still have an excellent club, with pitching and balance and young players with upside. They are always calculatingly happy to let the Yankees spend themselves silly to the point of stupid. Maybe that turns out to be the case with one of the pitchers, Burnett being the more logical candidate. But not with Teixeira, 28, beginning what should be his peak years. He is a player the Sox, who do a pretty fair business themselves, should not have conceded to the Yankees for a few extra million.
--
To quote John Sterling, the Yankees win, thuhuhuhuh Yankees win! Of course, on the field, they have not won a playoff series since 2004, and a World Series since 2000. Do their off-season expenditures speak of prudence or panic? Probably both.
And while they certainly deserve praise for addressing their personnel needs, delivering the goods, it is difficult to comment on the Yankees with the baseball blinders on, without acknowledging that in the world of economic pain that has set upon the country, their audacity and gluttony tend to make the stomach feel queasy.
If there is a deep recession with budget austerity, it is news to the Yankees. While they spend like an OPEC nation when oil was trading at $140 a barrel, they continue to hit the city for sweetheart treatment, most recently for another $259 million in tax-exempt bonds on top of the $940 million they were already given. Their two stadiums stand as reminders -- at least until one is gone -- of precious parkland taken, yet to be replaced and probably never to the specifications that poor Congressional district had before.
--
It is all about power for the Yankees, like a big batting practice show with fireworks after every drive into the upper deck. They get what they want, with their money or the taxpayers'. The figures defy recession, or reason.
The Yankees just received a bill from Major League Baseball for $26.9 million (for a grand total of $148.5 million in the six years since the luxury tax was created to exert some control over big-market spending, or 90 percent of the total tax). They shrugged it off and handed Teixeira $180 million.
The pinstriped express rolls on, in excess.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mark Teixeira, left, has joined the Yankee freeagent acquisitions A. J. Burnett, far right, and C. C. Sabathia in an outpouring of holiday green.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FAR LEFT, TONY DEJAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS
BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B10)
The Yanks filled a hole at first and pre-empted Boston when they signed Mark Teixeira to an eight-year, $180 million deal.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B12) CHARTS: Yankees Vs. the World (Yankees Win): The Yankees have signed three free agents for more money than the rest of the major league teams have spent on 30 free-agent signings this off-season.
$423.5 million: C. C. Sabathia, A. J. Burnett, Mark Teixeira
$296.6 million: Jeremy Affeldt, Casey Blake, Aaron Boone, Russell Branyan, Doug Brocail, Ryan Dempster, Alan Embree, Adam Everett, Kyle Farnsworth, Rafael Furcal, Mike Hampton, Bobby Howry, Raul Ibanez, Cesar Izturis, Jorge Julio, Mike Lamb, Mike Lincoln, Felipe Lopez, Mark Loretta, Jason Michaels, Trever Miller, Jamie Moyer, Greg Norton, Nick Punto, Edgar Renteria, Arthur Rhodes, Juan Rivera, Francisco Rodriguez, Ramon Vazquez, Kerry Wood
 What $180 Million Buys: Mark Teixeira's career highlights. Charts detail player info. (pg. B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (75%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); CHRISTMAS (75%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (93%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (89%); DEREK JETER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (54%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



891 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2008

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Happy Holidays from Iran

BYLINE: LIZ ROBBINS


HIGHLIGHT: In an "alternative Christmas message" broadcast on British TV's channel 4, the Iranian President said that were Jesus Christ still alive today, he would "stand with the people in opposition to bullying, ill-tempered and expansionist powers." 

 BODY:
What do Marge Simpson, Jesse Jackson, Sharon Osborne, the Naked Chef, and Mahmoud Ahmadinejad have in common?
They all have delivered, or are about to deliver, an "alternative Christmas message" on Great Britain's Channel 4. Mr. Ahmadinejad, the Iranian president, is up next. 
He will be speaking, on a previously recorded message from Iran, at 7:15 p.m. locally on Christmas Day. 
The timing is a departure from some previous years, when the Channel 4 message was broadcast opposite Queen Elizabeth II's Christmas message at 3 p.m., a time that has traditionally drawn families around the television. 
Neither Marge, the blue-haired cartoon mother, nor any of the others who have appeared on Channel 4 since the stunt started in 1993, has publicly advocated for the destruction of Israel or denied the existence of the Holocaust, as Mr. Ahmadinejad has. 
His latest message kept the controversy going by offering a thinly veiled attack on the United States and its allies. The Iranian President said that were Jesus Christ still alive today, he would "stand with the people in opposition to bullying, ill-tempered and expansionist powers."
But there was more. Channel 4 translated the speech, which Mr. Ahmadinejad gave in Persian, and printed it on its website. 
If Christ were on earth today, undoubtedly he would fight against the tyrannical policies of prevailing global economic and political systems, as he did in his lifetime.
And then the president of a country with a program of enriching uranium that has fueled fears in the West said:
If tyrannical goals are repackaged in an attractive and deceptive package and imposed on nations again, the people, awakened, will stand up against them.
Channel 4 justified its invitation to Mr. Ahmadinejad - and the broadcast of his 696-word message - with this statement from its publicity chief on its web site. 
Channel 4's Head of News and Current Affairs Dorothy Byrne said: 
As the leader of one of the most powerful states in the Middle East, President Ahmadinejad's views are enormously influential. As we approach a critical time in international relations, we are offering our viewers an insight into an alternative world view. Channel 4 has devoted more airtime to examining Iran than any other broadcaster and this message continues a long tradition of offering a different perspective on the world around us.
Relations between Great Britain and Iran are strained, especially since Iran captured 15 British sailors and marines in disputed waters in the Persian Gulf between Iran and Iraq in 2007. Only after 13 days were the troops released. And that came after a televised meeting with Mr Ahmadinejad, who wanted to give a "gift" to the British people at Easter.
Mr. Ahmadinejad's Channel 4 appearance provoked ire from members of Parliament and Jewish leaders in London.
Philip Davies, a Tory member of Parliament, told The Telegraph that Channel 4's decision to broadcast a message from Mr. Ahmadinejad was "completely unacceptable on every level." 
Mr. Davies added: 
His previous comments don't strike me as being in tune with what most people feel at Christmas time. He is an offensive man and the last person you would want to use for a Christmas message. Channel 4 have lost sight of what a Christmas message should be. They are trying to be controversial for the sake of being controversial, and are treating their viewers with contempt by pretending this is not a publicity stunt.
Stephen Smith, director of the Holocaust Centre in London criticized "the fact that somebody who openly denies the Holocaust is given legitimacy on prime-time television, someone who uses Holocaust denial to be divisive." 
West London Synagogue's Rabbi Mark Winer (who was raised in Dallas), develops interfaith programs with Muslims, Christians and Jews in the city. Reached by telephone Wednesday evening in London, Rabbi Winer said the television station was needlessly provoking tensions by having Mr. Ahmadinejad deliver his message. 
"My counsel to my congregants would be to do everything in our power to punish Channel 4 for deliberately giving him a free platform," he said. 
The Times of Londonwrote:
The message will be broadcast several hours after the Queen's to avoid any implications of equivalence between the monarch and the Iranian leader.
Channel 4's website said that "there will be a short introduction to the message which will place President Ahmadinejad's appearance in context."
When Columbia University invited Mr. Ahmadinejad to speak in 2006, the university's president, Lee C. Bollinger, introduced him by calling him "a petty and cruel dictator" and "brazenly provocative or astonishingly uneducated" for denying the Holocaust. 
The introduction has yet to be uploaded on Channel 4's site, but stay tuned.
Last year's message, also delivered hours after the Queen's, had a somber tone. It was delivered by Sergeant Major Andrew Stockton, a British soldier who lost an arm while fighting Afghanistan.

        
Iranian News Agency Claims Onion Report It Ran by Mistake Is Essentially True
        
Video Offers Glimpses of Tehran Protests
        
Iranian News Agency Plagiarizes The Onion
        
Iranian Diplomat Harassed in New York
        
Iranian Channel Decries 'Assassination' of Its Correspondent in Syria

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (91%); RELIGION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); FAMILY (75%); EASTER SEASON (72%); HOLOCAUST (68%); JEWS & JUDAISM (68%); ARMED FORCES (63%) Ahmadinejad, Mahmoud; Christmas; Iran; News

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (94%); JESSE JACKSON (73%); ELIZABETH II (57%) Ahmadinejad, Mahmoud

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (65%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (58%) Iran

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2012



892 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Markets Climb Slightly Despite Weak Reports

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Tumbling gasoline prices gave consumers more purchasing power last month and led to a rise in real spending, even as personal income slipped and job losses mounted in a rapidly weakening economy, government reports showed Wednesday.
 The Commerce Department reported that consumer spending, when adjusted for inflation, rose 0.6 percent in November, its largest gain in two years. The increase came after a 0.5 percent decline in October.
 While the unadjusted rate of consumer spending declined 0.6 percent last month, after a 1 percent drop in October, economists suggested that the relative increase in spending was a rare piece of good news. 
 ''The declines in gasoline prices have been extremely large, larger than anything we've seen in the past,'' said Dean Maki, chief United States economist at Barclays Capital. ''That's providing a lot of spending power to households.''
 Gasoline prices have dropped to $1.66 a gallon from their July peak of $4.11 as Americans drove less and the global appetite for oil waned. Filling up a 15-gallon tank now costs about $25, compared with $60 this summer.
 American consumers spent a seasonally adjusted $282 billion on gasoline and other motor fuels in November, down from $437 billion on an annual basis in July. Economists have compared the impact of slumping gas prices with a tax cut worth billions of dollars.
 ''It's a very substantial amount of money that's been freed up,'' said Abiel Reinhart, North American economist at JPMorgan Chase. ''That's a definite positive for consumers. It's probably the only positive at this point.''
 Oil prices continued to fall on Wednesday, declining $3.63, to settle at $35.35 a barrel in New York trading. Crude prices are 75 percent below their July highs of more than $145 a barrel.
 Financial markets in New York took the economic news in stride on a shortened trading day. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 48.99 points, or 0.58 percent, to 8.468.48, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 1.86 points, or 0.22 percent, to 865.02. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 3.36 points, or 0.22 percent, to 1,524.90.
 Retailers are bracing for a bruising post-holiday season as Americans bargain hunt. Many have slashed their earnings outlooks and are offering deep discounts and ''doorbuster'' sales simply to entice shoppers into their stores.
 Households continue to save more money as many Americans adjust to stagnant wages and reduced working hours and brace for the possibility of layoffs. The Commerce Department reported that personal savings increased 1 percent in November compared with 0.7 percent in October.
 Personal incomes dropped by 0.2 percent last month after increasing 0.1 percent in October. 
 Meanwhile, weekly jobless claims continued to hit new highs. Unemployment has risen to 6.7 percent this year and employers cut 533,000 jobs in November.
 The Labor Department reported on Wednesday that the number of people filing for unemployment for the first time rose to 586,000 in the week ending on Saturday, up from a revised 556,000 a week earlier.
 The manufacturing sector marked another weak month, with new orders to factories for durable goods -- items expected to last at least three years -- falling 1 percent, to $186.9 billion, the Commerce Department reported. While it was the fourth consecutive month of declines, the drop was actually smaller than Wall Street's expectations of a 3 percent decline.
 Helping to drive down that November number was a 37.7 percent drop in demand for commercial aircraft. The production of cars, machinery, furniture, appliances and a range of other goods has tumbled this year, according to Federal Reserve data.
 Over all, industrial production has declined 5.5 percent so far this year as auto assembly lines closed and home construction was at a near standstill. The Federal Reserve has tried to prime the pump by promising to buy debt backed by mortgages and consumer loans, and by cutting interest rates.
 The Fed's moves have helped lower borrowing costs, according to one measure. The rate on a 30-year fixed mortgages fell to a national average of 5.14 percent over the last seven days, its lowest point in 37 years, according to a survey by Freddie Mac.
 The Treasury's 10-year note fell 3/32, to 113 28/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 2.18 percent, from 2.17 percent late Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Santa Claus gave out hugs Wednesday on the floor of the new York Stock Exchange, while investors were hoping for a Santa rally. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: DURABLE GOODS ORDERS: Manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department)
PERSONAL INCOME: Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department)
THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
THE FAVORITES (Source: Charles Schwab)
 FREDDIE MAC YIELDS: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008



893 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: City's Religious Shelters Say Rules Squeeze Them Out

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN; Karen Zraick contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As temperatures outside were dropping from icy to arctic early Monday evening, volunteers inside the Friends Meeting House off East 15th Street prepared their gym for homeless guests, following a routine that has taken place nightly for more than 25 years.
They arranged green cots in neat lines on the polished wood floor, placed cold cuts and leftover lasagna on pink cloth-covered tables, and set out 14 chairs -- 12 for the homeless, 2 for volunteers who share the communal meal, then sleep in the next room. 
But these lovingly preserved rituals may soon come to an end because of a pending change in city policy in which shelters that contract with the Department of Homeless Services to provide beds would be required to provide hot dinners and transportation, things that the Friends shelter and many of the others do not have the staff to handle.
The looming void has caused volunteers like Sylvia Friedman to meditate on the meaning of need: the need of others for warm beds, and their own need for the warm feeling that comes in providing them.
''It is important to our Quaker meeting that we be able to serve this way,'' said Ms. Friedman, a retired Democratic assemblywoman who runs the committee that organizes the shelter, where she has been a volunteer since 1986. ''It's what we are about.''
Ms. Friedman's group has joined a coalition of roughly 100 churches and synagogues that are protesting the city's moves, arguing that the rules are not only dispiriting, but imprudent at a time when the sinking economy could increase the numbers of homeless people seeking shelter. The coalition has met with city officials, and members have testified at a City Council hearing.
George Nashak, the deputy commissioner of homeless services in charge of shelters for single adults, said that he had been a bit baffled by the outcry over the city's attempt to bring more order to the far-flung network of religious social services.
''We are looking to make this system more efficient,'' he said. ''We are not forcing anyone to close, but we have adjusted our portfolio to do business with shelters that can bring us more capacity.''
The religious community's ministry to the homeless in New York goes back decades. During a sharp increase in street homelessness in the 1980's, churches and synagogues came to the rescue, placing cots in their basements and meeting halls.
Over time, the city's capacity to shelter the homeless grew and became more professionalized, but the ad hoc system of religious providers continued, relying on the Department of Homeless Services to screen out homeless clients with addictions and serious mental illnesses and shuttle the others to their neighborhood shelters in vans.
Currently, the city houses about 6,500 single adults each night, most of them in large shelters with hundreds of beds but about 350 in the smaller church or synagogue shelters run by volunteers. (Homeless families in New York reached a record high in November, but the number of single homeless people has dropped in recent years.)
Men and women who want to avoid officially entering the city's shelter system can get a bed in a religious shelter night by night by going to one of eight city-run drop-in centers for a referral and a ride.
As the Bloomberg administration has worked to overhaul the shelter system, pressing to get more people off the street and into permanent housing, city officials have taken a closer look at the drop-in and religious shelter system. They decided in September to stop sending people to shelters that were open fewer than five nights a week, a change that caused 20 programs to close.
Then, this month, the city announced that effective in June, it would no longer send clients to shelters that did not serve hot meals before bed, and that even the smallest shelters would have to arrange transportation for their guests.
While the city contracts with many shelters that have no religious affiliation, the religious shelters have a separate contract to work with drop-in centers and are the ones affected by the city's contract changes. Many smaller shelters say they cannot meet these demands; Friends on 15th Street, for example, does not even have an oven.
''The religious community has been involved in taking care of the homeless before the city ever get involved,'' said Douglas Grace, director of outreach for the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church and a leader in organizing the congregations. ''Now if they move forward, many congregational shelters will have to close. It is so frustrating that they are not listening to what we are telling them.''
Mr. Nashak said City Hall valued the religious shelters and would like to expand their capacity to 500 from 350 by next year, not least because they cost the city about $30 per person per night, compared with $67 in the larger city-run shelters. But he said they should be organized in a way that best serves the homeless -- not the volunteers.
For example, Mr. Nashak said he would like shelters to be open more nights and located closer to the drop-in centers. ''It is not humane for a guy in a drop-in center in Brooklyn to have to travel to the Bronx,'' he said.
But to people running the smaller shelters, such efficiencies must be balanced against the warmth and casual intimacy they offer, unlike the institutional feeling of the city-run shelters. Those who have already lost the charge to care for the homeless say it has left a hole in their hearts.
Laura Wolf-Powers, a university professor with a 4-year-old son, had stayed overnight once every five weeks volunteering at the Hanson Place Central United Methodist Church in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, and was distraught when its two-night-per-week shelter closed in October.
''We were doing this volunteer work because we wanted to contribute in a small way to the social safety net to the city, so it was a little shocking when we were told that our services weren't needed any more,'' she said. ''I can't replace that as a way of participating, a meaningful way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A warm end to a cold day for one homeless person inside the shelter at the Friends Meeting House in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (90%); RELIGION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (89%); VOLUNTEERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); CITIES (74%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (69%); MENTAL ILLNESS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



894 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; ON LOCATION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: A Designer of Castles Chooses a Simple Life

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CANNELL

 BODY:
FIFTY-ONE years ago David Mlinaric, then a 21-year-old visiting New York from London, stopped for drinks at the interior designer Billy Baldwin's apartment on the Upper East Side. Mr. Baldwin was a commanding figure in American decorating, but he had a surprisingly modest apartment, with glossy brown walls set off by white moldings.
 ''I've thought a lot about that apartment since then,'' Mr. Mlinaric said recently. ''I remember thinking that it was so small, and yet it had everything he could possibly need.'' 
 Mr. Mlinaric (he pronounces it mill-in-AR-ik) would go on to be England's foremost decorator of period interiors, with grand-scale commissions to refurbish the National Gallery and Victoria & Albert Museum. He's also decorated a Tuscan villa and an Umbrian castle, as well as homes for Mick Jagger, Eric Clapton and Lord Rothschild.
 His career was propelled by a resurgent British economy and a renewed appreciation for aristocratic country homes and other historic buildings that had gathered dust in the postwar years.
 When he and his wife, Martha, are not at Spargrove, a compound of rustic stone buildings in Somerset, they stay at a London pied-a-terre, a flat so simple it brings to mind Mr. Baldwin's old place.
 ''Often the simplest things are easiest to like, in clothes, food, gardens and landscape, as well as in buildings,'' Mr. Mlinaric wrote in the afterward of ''Mlinaric on Decorating,'' a monograph written with Mirabel Cecil and published in October by Frances Lincoln. It may sound like a surprising declaration from one so strongly associated with Italian castles, marble columns and gilded detailing. But the truth is, despite that grand portfolio, he favors simplicity in his own homes.
 His apartment -- a two-bedroom rental on the second floor of a six-story Flemish-inspired building in Chelsea -- faces the Thames. In the afternoons the pale blue walls are awash in a silvery river light that is amplified by mirrors. ''They probably double or triple the sense of light'' he said. He also capitalized on the light in a small space by opening the entrance hallway so that it connects with the living area.
 He was an originator of the eclectic decorating style that has become prevalent in recent years. Mr. Mlinaric had a faithful eye for historical recreation, but was not afraid to judiciously insert modern pieces into the mix. For example, in the dining room of Waddesdon Manor, Lord Rothschild's estate in Buckinghamshire, he hung a pendant lamp that Ingo Maurer made three years ago from shards of shattered porcelain next to 17th-century lamp stands and 18th-century paneling. 
 In his own flat he uses distinctive pieces sparingly, with a mixer's touch. Curvy 1970s Amoeba chairs by Verner Panton keep company with a 17th-century walnut bureau bookcase and a 19th-century Chesterfield sofa in brown velvet. 
 His goal, when he moved in three years ago, was to make the apartment basic and low-maintenance so he could turn the key and leave without fuss. ''I enjoy its simplicity enormously,'' he said. ''I couldn't have said this earlier in my life. When you're young you want a place where your friends can drop in, and you have to look after them and keep a lot of furniture around.'' The Mlinarics rarely entertain at the apartment, preferring to eat out with friends or spend time with the grandchildren.
 Mr. Mlinaric's preference for simplicity at home has increased now that much of his career is behind him -- as Mr. Baldwin's was when Mr. Mlinaric visited him. ''I go around to shops now and think, I don't want any of these things,'' Mr. Mlinaric said. ''The acquisitiveness falls away as you get older.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 1. David Mlinaric furnished his London apartment with the mix expected of a true eclectic. The art includes ''Blossom,'' a Jeremy Moon painting.
2. He chose pale blue for the sitting area to complement the silvery light from the Thames. And mirrors ''probably double or triple the sense of light,'' he said.
3. A seven-sided glass table by Grillo Demo, an Argentine artist, is at one end of the living area. The fish-scale pattern in the windows acknowledges the river.
4. The kitchen, in granite, steel and white laminate, is so tiny that Mr. Mlinaric built extra cabinets in the adjacent hall.
5. The Mlinarics eat at a card table set up in the hallway with linen and Wedgwood china. The glass light is by Vico Magistretti. The Parthenon was drawn by Mr. Mlinaric at age 17.
 6. To maximize light, only the bedroom has curtains, a textile by the Art Deco-era designer Emile-Jacques Ruhlmann. The near table is by Elizabeth Garouste and Mattia Bonetti. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DERRY MOORE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERIOR DECORATING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); PAINTING (73%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%)

PERSON: MICK JAGGER (53%); JACOB ROTHSCHILD (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) ENGLAND (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008



895 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Penthouse Magazine Firm Planning to Offer Shares

BYLINE: By JENNA WORTHAM

 BODY:
Marketers like to say that sex sells. FriendFinder Networks, in search of cash to pay off nearly $400 million in debt, is going to test that proposition.
 FriendFinder, which operates a group of sex-oriented social networking sites and owns Penthouse magazine, is trying to sell up to $460 million in stock to investors in one of the most challenging markets ever for initial public offerings. 
 According to a prospectus filed Tuesday with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company, based in Boca Raton, Fla., has violated the terms of its debt agreements and may not be able to remain in business unless it raises money through the initial public offering or some other method. 
 The company intends to use about $400 million of the stock offering to pay down debt.
 On the surface, FriendFinder might seem like an easy way for investors to cash in on the popularity of sex on the Internet. The company's flagship Web site is similar to Match.com and other mainstream dating sites, but aimed explicitly at sexual liaisons. 
 The company also has created sites aimed at senior citizens, Asians and Christian singles. 
 FriendFinder said its sites averaged more than one million monthly subscribers generating an average monthly revenue of $19.06 during the first nine months of 2008.
 The company, however, warned that it has a lot of competition and a history of losing money. It posted a net loss of $29.9 million on $48 million in revenue in 2007. For the first nine months of 2008, FriendFinder had operating income of $17.6 million and a net loss of $32.3 million on $244 million in revenue.
 By comparison, IAC's online personals businesses, which include Match.com and Chemistry.com, are significantly more profitable, with operating income of $50.7 million on revenue of $277 million in the first nine months of 2008.
 FriendFinder faces numerous challenges in raising funds. The financial crisis has made it difficult for even seasoned companies to raise money from investors, and the market for initial public offerings has virtually dried up, with just a handful of technology companies managing to sell shares this year and venture capitalists predicting that 2009 will be worse.
 In addition, the sexually explicit nature of FriendFinder's content could make it difficult to attract advertisers, which the company has described as a major source of future growth. 
 Ning, a platform that lets people create their own social networks, announced in early December that it will discontinue support for its adult-themed communities.
 Gina Bianchini, chief executive and co-founder of Ning, said the decision was driven in part by a concern that advertisers are uncomfortable being associated with sexual content.
 In its prospectus, FriendFinder noted that some banks and credit card companies are reluctant to do business with it because of the nature of its business.
 The offering is being underwritten by Renaissance Securities (Cyprus), a Moscow-based investment bank.
 FriendFinder Networks was formed after Penthouse Media acquired Various, operator of AdultFriendFinder and other sites, in December 2007 for $500 million and renamed the combined company.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DATING SERVICES (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (52%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

PERSON: GINA BIANCHINI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008



896 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: Your Friends Need Money. Do They Have References?

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

 BODY:
AS a financial planner in Carlsbad, Calif., Candace Bahr tells clients to think twice before lending money to friends and family.
 But when her manicurist, Melissa Pryor, asked to borrow $3,000 last month, Ms. Bahr couldn't say no. Ms. Pryor was being evicted because bankers had foreclosed on the house she was renting in nearby Oceanside. Needing the money to hire a lawyer, she turned to Ms. Bahr, a client she had spoken with every other week for a decade though they were not friends socially.
 ''It was devastating, humbling,'' Ms. Pryor said. ''To be in that situation, with all the different factors involved, you are helpless.'' 
 Ms. Bahr asked Ms. Pryor to sign a note promising to repay the loan in a year. Despite her professional skepticism, Ms. Bahr recognized that some decisions, even about money, can't be judged on business alone. 
 ''You can talk about it all day long,'' she said, ''but on an emotional level we are all still people.'' 
 With the economy spiraling deeper into recession, friends, family and even unlikely acquaintances like the manicurist are increasingly turning to each other with a hand out. More often than not, these exchanges arouse feelings of guilt and worries that if anything goes awry, friendships and family bonds will be frayed. 
 In the best case, psychologists and financial planners say, giving money to a pal or a sibling in need can strengthen already close bonds. But there is inherent danger, too, that a loan will put an unspoken price tag on friendship. Then the lender feels guilty, no matter the decision, and the borrower chastened for having asked at all.
 ''The rules of friendship are tacit, unconscious; they are not rational,'' said Steven Pinker, a professor of psychology at Harvard University who has studied language, relationships and human nature. ''In business, though, you have to think rationally. The question is how do you switch over without feeling like you are keeping track?''
 With bank loans harder to get and more Americans losing their jobs, such emotionally fraught transactions are only likely to become more common. Virgin Money USA, which administers loans among friends and family members, said the dollar value of loans outstanding has soared in the last 13 months to $370 million at the end of November from $200 million in October 2007. Credit counseling companies like InCharge Debt Solutions in Orlando, Fla., are seeing a sharp increase of customers interested in borrowing from friends and relatives. 
 And financial planners say some clients gave thousands of dollars as gifts this holiday season instead of Burberry jackets or big-screen television sets, to thwart relatives from asking for money later.
 Few understand the benefits of sharing among friends as well as Elizabeth Dunn, an assistant professor of psychology at the University of British Columbia. She recently published the findings of a study that showed giving -- buying a pal a cup of coffee or purchasing the occasional trinket -- made people feel good about themselves and their relationships. 
 But when a friend asked Ms. Dunn if she would lend her several hundred dollars for expenses not long ago, the professor's warm feelings turned cool. The loan stirred up feelings of guilt; Ms. Dunn wanted to say no. She knew if it was not repaid, it could damage the friendship forever.
 ''If you really need help and someone helps you, there is gratitude,''' said Ms. Dunn, 31, who ultimately declined to lend her friend the cash. ''But at the same time, there is no shortage of stories about how relationships end or crumble over financial disagreements.'' 
 In an effort to avoid such problems, some people making personal loans are using a middleman. In October, Josh Berry, a 32-year-old operations manager at Maxx Productions, an audio and lighting company for large events near Nashville, wanted to sell his 2004 Chevrolet Avalanche to Jason Barnhill, a colleague.
 Mr. Berry's only option was to finance the purchase himself because the buyer's credit score made it hard to get a $14,000 loan from a bank. At first, Mr. Barnhill refused; a friend had failed to repay a loan several years ago. Mr. Barnhill lost the money and the friendship. ''I could never trust him,'' he said.
 The two men spent afternoons debating different situations, like what would happen if Mr. Barnhill lost his job. Mr. Barnhill didn't want to be beholden to his friend and Mr. Berry ''didn't want to beat down his door to get the money,'' he said. Both agreed that a personal loan was a bad idea if they were to remain friends.
 Finally Mr. Berry suggested the two use Virgin Money, the third-party service based in Waltham, Mass., that was started by the entrepreneur Richard Branson, to collect monthly payments from Mr. Barnhill and transfer them to Mr. Berry.
 The distance was a comfort. If Mr. Barnhill defaults, the agreement states Mr. Berry gets his truck back. And if Mr. Barnhill can't pay at all? ''It would be them coming after me instead of him coming after me,'' Mr. Barnhill said.
 Mr. Berry was forced to face his own feelings about which friends were deserving. ''I would not loan money to a person who has a low work ethic or simply is not responsible,'' he said. ''If they haven't proved themselves in their personal life, I'm not going to extend my hand.''
 The shifting power in a relationship -- and feelings that ensue -- can be particularly uncomfortable among family members who often have convoluted histories. In some cases, an older brother or sister unwittingly steps into the role of surrogate parent, bailing out siblings at the slightest hint of trouble. In other cases, unresolved childhood rivalries take center stage.
 ''If there is a way to keep money out of the family dynamic it should be considered,'' said Charles Lowenhaupt, chief executive of St. Louis-based Lowenhaupt Global Advisors, which works with wealthy families on financial matters. A wealthy client recently approached Mr. Lowenhaupt about what how to handle a situation with a sister who had lost her job and was in jeopardy of losing her home. The brother wanted to help -- she was asking for about $400,000 -- and he could afford to give it. At the same time, Mr. Lowenhaupt said, ''He knew that she'd come back for more.''
 What the brother needed was a buffer. The brother told his sister that he would ask his lawyer to help her get a $400,000 loan at a local bank. What the brother did not say was that he would put up the collateral for the loan. The sister ultimately got the loan, saved her house and was none the wiser about her brother's help.
 ''It was a screen between him and his sister so they could have Thanksgiving dinner without incident,'' Mr. Lowenhaupt said. ''The lender didn't want to feel beholden to the other. And, if it was just a gift, it could affect the self esteem of the person getting it.''
 Few people have an army of advisers to cloak their intentions. Instead, financial planners say, truthfulness is the best defense in dealing with friends and relatives, no matter how painful the conversation. ''Someone without confidence may avoid the person or plead poverty,'' said Myra Salzer, a financial adviser to wealthy individuals who is based in Boulder, Colo.. ''That's not the way to go.''
 A wealthy lawyer from San Francisco said she and her husband have helped two family members in recent months. (She spoke anonymously because she did not want to embarrass her relatives.) In one case, the lawyer gave a family member who was going through a bitter divorce a gift of $100,000. In the other, a family member who lost a job was lent $25,000 in recent weeks with the proviso it would be paid back in three to five years.
 In both cases, the lawyer laid out for both siblings exactly what was expected of them. And she did not feel compelled to treat them equally even though each knew what the other received. ''Quite honestly, the amount was dependent on the degree of closeness I had with each,'' she said. ''It is difficult not to be judgmental when you see someone in need. We want to blame someone.''
 Unlike Ms. Bahr, the financial planner, the lawyer did not ask the family member borrowing $25,000 to sign a note agreeing to repay it. ''The person was in such a low state,'' she said. ''There was no reason to distrust. It would have added insult to injury.''
 But that doesn't mean she wouldn't feel any less angry if her relative reneged on repayment. ''If they are driving a big fancy car and can't pay me, I'd be mad,'' the lawyer said. ''But if they are doing what they need to get their life in order and still can't pay me, I guess that's O.K. I just don't want someone to think I have a blank checkbook.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HELPING HANDS: Melissa Pryor, above left, is receiving help from Candace Bahr. At left, Jake Barnhill bought a truck with some personal financing from Josh Berry. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, TOP
 ALAN POIZNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY SERGE BLOCH) (pg.E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHOLOGY (86%); FORECLOSURE (78%); FAMILY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EVICTION (77%); LAWYERS (75%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CONSUMER CREDIT COUNSELING (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); DISMISSALS (50%)

COMPANY: VIRGIN MONEY PERSONAL FINANCIAL SERVICE LTD (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008



897 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING THE AMERICAS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: Canada: Economy Contracts in October

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Canada's economy contracted in October on declines in wholesale trade and manufacturing. Statistics Canada said the economy shrank 0.1 percent in October from September, less than the 0.3 percent fall predicted by analysts. Year on year, gross domestic product growth was 0.2 percent, the lowest figure since the 0.2 percent increase in May 1992. Wholesale trade fell 2.7 percent in October over September, while manufacturing dropped 0.7 percent, as both felt the slump in the auto sector. Canada sends 75 percent of its exports to the United States. (REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); STATISTICS (88%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008



898 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Early Tally Suggests Weak Sales

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
The weekend before Christmas is normally one of the busiest shopping periods of the year. But according to one early report, the number of shoppers declined by double digits this year, auguring a dismal holiday season for retailers when the final numbers come in next month.
 Before Christmas had even arrived, the big chains responded to the drop-off by getting a jump on their ''after Christmas'' sales. 
 Consumer traffic at the nation's retail stores declined 23.7 percent and sales fell 5.3 percent compared with the period a year ago as concerns about the economy and snowstorms kept many shoppers at home, according to ShopperTrak, a research company. Last year foot traffic increased 7 percent and sales jumped 11.5 percent, according to ShopperTrak's numbers.
 Fewer consumers hit the stores over the weekend, though Saturday sales were better than Sunday, said Bill Martin, a founder of ShopperTrak. On Saturday, sales were up about half a percent, or $8.75 billion, compared with a year ago. By Mr. Martin's count, there have been just two days of sales growth this holiday season; Black Friday, the day after Thanksgiving, and the Saturday before Christmas. 
 A clearer picture of how bad the season was will emerge on Jan. 8, when retailers report December sales figures. 
 Last month, ShopperTrak estimated that foot traffic for the entire holiday shopping season would decline about 10 percent from last year. Mr. Martin said sales will be down 1.5 to 2 percent. He attributed the relatively slight sales decline (compared with the steep falloff in shoppers) to the deluge of discounts that led shoppers to buy more. ''For sales to be only down in the 5 percent range, it was a pretty good number,'' he said.
 In a different report, Britt Beemer, chief executive and founder of America's Research Group, said about 39 percent of consumers shopped last weekend -- the lowest number in the six years he has been surveying people about their shopping habits the weekend before Christmas. 
 Taubman Centers, which owns or manages 24 shopping centers in 11 states, said that anecdotally, sales on Saturday appeared flat at best. 
 ''It's a syndrome that I call postponed purchasing,'' said Marshal Cohen, chief industry analyst for NPD Group. ''Consumers are purposely not buying right now because they recognize that there are better deals to be had and/or they just don't think they have to have everything they had in the past. We were living in this period of time where luxuries had become necessities. They've now become luxuries again.''
 Mr. Cohen, who has been taking the pulse of shoppers at malls and free-standing stores for the last several weeks, estimated that shopper traffic was down by 18 percent. 
 For months, weak traffic has prompted retailers to offer jaw-dropping sales. But this week discounts, and store hours, seemed to go from incredible to absurd. 
 An ad for the Neiman Marcus online ''after Christmas sale'' has the word ''after'' scratched out. A tagline reads, ''Savings so good we couldn't wait!'' Merchandise nearly 50 percent off is an additional 40 percent off.
 The Toys ''R'' Us store in Times Square stayed open an unprecedented 134 continuous hours, through 8 p.m. Christmas Eve. 
 Retail sales rarely decline in November and December, but the International Council of Shopping Centers said Tuesday that it expected sales at chain stores open at least a year to fall about 1 percent in December. In November, the council said, retailers had a record 7.7 percent decline, excluding Wal-Mart, which had an increase of 3.4 percent, without fuel. Over all, sales were the worst in 35 years, the council said. 
 Off line, all merchandise categories are suffering, even the usually resilient toy sector. 
 Online, holiday sales through Dec. 21 fell 1 percent from a year ago, according to ComScore. A calendar shift makes year-to-year comparisons difficult, but when comparing last weekend with the weekend nearest Christmas last year, consumers nearly doubled their spending this year.
 James J. Lewellis, a retailing research associate at Needham & Company, said recently that ''toy sales in the home stretch have been anemic and that the industry is poised to post its weakest holiday season in decades.'' Even with a late rush, he said, toy sales are likely to drop at least 5 percent from last year. 
 The National Retail Federation wrote in a letter to President-elect Barack Obama on Tuesday that ''the situation is critical.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hillsdale Shopping Center in San Mateo, Calif., was full last weekend, but over all, store traffic fell 23.7 percent from a year ago.
 Joe Smith carried a sign on Sunday for a going out of business sale at the Mervyn's store at Hillsdale Shopping Center. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARIO JOSE SANCHEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); THANKSGIVING (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008



899 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Small Business: Baking the 'Bread of Life'

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: GREENVILLE, R.I. 

 BODY:
To the Cavanagh family, the product they make at a nondescript plant here is just bread and water. But to millions at churches around the world, it is a sacred offering. 
 From a purely economic point of view, it is something that is almost as rare: a seemingly recession-proof business. 
 With the exception of a decline during recent Roman Catholic Church priest scandals, the Cavanagh Company's business of making communion bread has been growing steadily for the last 65 years. 
 The bread is used as a sacramental offering that, for Catholics and some other Christians, represents the breaking of the bread at the Last Supper and the body of Christ. 
 The family-owned company makes about 80 percent of the communion bread used by the Catholic, Episcopal, Lutheran and Southern Baptist churches in the United States. It has a similar market share in Australia, Canada and Britain, and is now looking to expand to West Africa. 
 ''We feel as though we're a bakery, and all we're making is bread,'' said Andy Cavanagh, the company's general manager, and part of the fourth generation of Cavanaghs to work here. ''It's not that we don't have respect for what happens to it, but that transformation is out of our hands and takes place in a church. The best thing we can do is make sure the bread is perfect in every way possible.'' 
 Some customers say the Cavanaghs have such a big market share because their product is about as close to perfect as earthly possible. ''It doesn't crumb, and I don't like fragments of our Lord scattering all over the floor,'' said the Rev. Bob Dietel, an Episcopal priest. 
 Mr. Dietel uses Cavanagh altar bread at his parish, St. Aidan's, in Camano Island, Wash. He likes that the large wafer, which he holds up and breaks during Mass, cracks cleanly. 
 A few years ago, the congregation switched to the wheat wafer the Cavanaghs make from the white. 
 ''There's a nice clean bread flavor, as opposed to the paste flavor you have with some other breads,'' Mr. Dietel said. 
 His congregation buys about 6,000 wafers a year from a Seattle religious goods store. Traditionally, nuns, priests or members of a congregation baked altar bread. (In the Catholic tradition it is unleavened and contains only flour and water; other denominations, including Southern Baptists, allow the use of additional ingredients.) 
 In 1943, Andy's great-grandfather, John Cavanagh Sr., an inventor, and grandfather, John Jr., were asked to help local Catholic nuns renovate their antiquated baking equipment. The men created ovens and mixers for the nuns; then three years later, John Jr. and his brother Paul started making bread themselves. 
 They distributed all of it to Catholic churches and monasteries. 
 The Cavanaghs are Catholic and John Sr. let his sons run the business so he could concentrate on his first love, liturgical art. Crosses and paintings are showcased in a room in the Rhode Island offices.
 For about 20 years, the Cavanagh bread was small, white and nearly transparent, intended to melt on the tongue. After the changes initiated in the church at the Second Vatican Council in the 1960s, Catholic churches wanted the wafers to be thicker and chewable, like real bread. 
 The Cavanaghs started producing the wafers of today -- usually whole wheat and sealed on the outside to prevent crumbs. 
 In 1970, Paul's sons, Brian and Peter, joined the business and started expanding the company's reach beyond New England and the Catholic Church, where fewer and fewer nuns were making bread. 
 The company will not disclose sales numbers, but says it makes about 850 million wafers each year, and that each wafer sells for less than a penny. Most of the company's bread is sold wholesale to religious supply stores and Southern Baptist bookstores. In the Catholic Church the company sells to monasteries; the nuns then sell the bread to churches. 
 ''It's a source of income for us, but at the same time it's a service to the parishes in the diocese,'' said Sister Marilyn McGillan of the Sisters of the Precious Blood in Watertown, N.Y. Her monastery sells to about 100 churches in the Catholic Diocese of Ogdensburg, N.Y. ''We're like a clearinghouse for altar breads for our dioceses.''
 There are plenty of varieties. The company sells both white and wheat flour wafers, in sizes ranging from one and one-eighth inches wide to nine inches wide. Some are double-thick, and all except the large ones can be embossed with designs including a cross or a lamb. 
 'They're the classic symbols of Christianity,'' Andy Cavanagh said. 
 Brian and Peter Cavanagh still run the company, and expect Andy, 30, Peter's son; and his two brothers, Dan, 31 and Luke, 28, to buy them out one day. 
 The family members pride themselves on having never had an argument over business. They eat lunch together daily, and business talk almost always turns into discussions about New England's sports teams. 
 ''When you emphasize family, the business falls into place,'' Brian said. 
 Each brother has his own niche. Andy deals with the finances, Luke the Web site and Dan the machines. 
 Dan Cavanagh feels most at home in the large baking area.
 In huge tubs, about 90 pounds of cake flour is mixed with about 13 gallons of water. The batter is then sent through a tube, where it is piped onto a large metal plate. Another plate clamps on top, and it goes through the oven. Each plate is like a ''very large, 500-pound waffle iron,'' Dan Cavanagh said. 
 After coming out of the oven, the wafers spend about 15 minutes in what amounts to a humidifier, so they do not become brittle. When sufficiently moist they roll down a tube and into a spinning cylinder that resembles the ones in bingo halls. 
 The wafers are then shot to a machine that either puts them in sleeves of 100 or counts them for bags of 250. Then they are boxed. 
 The bread for Southern Baptist churches is baked on the other side of the room. The mixing process is similar, except the dough contains oil. Since the bread rises, it is baked in a large rotating oven and comes out as small squares. 
 The wafers and bread are made in both white and whole wheat, but most congregations prefer the whole wheat variety because it has more flavor, the Cavanaghs said. 
 Business dropped about 10 percent after the clergy sexual abuse scandal that rocked the Catholic Church in 2002, according to the Cavanaghs. But it has picked up recently -- perhaps because of the growing worldly concerns that come with a bad economy. 
 The company now sells church supplies including altars and pews in England and Australia, and is keeping an eye on the growing Catholic communities in Africa and South America. 
 But no matter where they do business, they say, the company will remain in Rhode Island, and in the family. 
 ''It's so gratifying to have it be a successful family business,'' Brian Cavanagh said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Communion wafers, or altar bread, readied for packaging at the Cavanagh Company's plant in Rhode Isaland. Below left, a wafer embossed with a cross. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
A baker mixing ingredients for wafers at the Cavanagh Company's plant. The company has been in business for 65 years and intends to expand into Africa.
The mixture of flour and water being strained before baking. At right, a pressing machine for embossing the wafers and then trimming them to the desired shape.
 Dan Cavanagh showing how wafers move through a tumbler to be packaged. At right, a worker with boxes of wafers in the plant's packing department. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); RELIGION (94%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); BAKERIES (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); BAKED GOODS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); MARKET SHARE (76%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RELIGIOUS STORES (67%); SCANDALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (71%); AUSTRALIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008



900 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: 1998 Tragedy Haunts Sydney-Hobart Race

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

 BODY:
Silence is hard to come by in the annual Sydney-to-Hobart race. There is the drone or the shriek of the wind, the crash of the waves against the hulls, the ominous harmonics of equipment under great stress, and the shouts and mutters from the crews as they try, once again, to sail their yachts of various shapes and prices from the majesty of Sydney Harbor to the haven of Hobart across the Tasman Sea.
 But when this year's race begins on Friday, silence will be a requirement. It has been 10 years since six men died in the storm-swept 1998 edition of this Australian institution, and a minute of silence before the start and another after the finish will honor those sailors as well as others who perished in the race in earlier years.
 ''I think it is an appropriate way to show our respects to those who didn't make it; I'm not sure if there's any other better way to do it,'' said Ed Psaltis, who was skipper of the small yacht that won overall honors in 1998 despite the horrific conditions that some ashen competitors compared to a hurricane. 
 A single wreath will also be laid in Hobart by Matt Allen, commodore of the Cruising Yacht Club of Australia, which organizes the race, and Clive Simpson, his counterpart at the Royal Yacht Club of Tasmania. Allen and other club officials have contacted the families of the sailors who died in 1998 and received tentative commitments from some family members to be in attendance in Hobart.
 ''What happened is part of the history of the race -- you can't deny it,'' Psaltis said. ''One of the guys who died in 1998, Jim Lawler, was a very close friend of my father's, so it was a personal thing for me.''
 He added: ''And he was no average yachtie. He was a very accomplished seaman, so to have him perish really knocked me for six. It just showed that even if you are among the best, you can still get taken out. What it shows you, above all, is that the sea is the boss, and you are its servant and don't even try to think otherwise.''
 Larry Ellison, the American billionaire who took line honors in that 1998 race in his maxi Sayonara, gleaned enough amid the 80-knot winds and 60-foot waves to conclude that he never wanted to race the 628 nautical miles from Sydney to Hobart again.
 He has been true to his word. He has since focused his big sailing ambitions and budgets on the America's Cup and other inshore regattas.
 But Australians like Psaltis have a more elemental connection to their island nation's premier yacht race, which was first contested in 1945, just months after the end of World War II. Psaltis, 47, like many a Sydney-to-Hobart skipper, has a regular job that has nothing to do with sailing: He is a partner in Sydney with the accounting firm of Ernst & Young.
 Yet despite the torments of 1998 and of other stormy, hazardous years, he has continued to put himself on the starting line. This will be his 28th Sydney-Hobart race, and the 10-member crew on his modified Farr 40, still named Midnight Rambler, will include three other men who sailed with him in 1998: Chris Rockell, John Whitfeld and Bob Thomas, Psaltis's co-owner and longtime navigator.
 ''Look, after 1998 I certainly thought very hard about it postrace, along the lines of: I've got a wife and three kids. What am I trying to do, to try and kill myself in a stupid yacht race?'' Psaltis said. ''But I firmly believe that the human spirit wants challenges and actually craves challenges, and to go through life controlled in a regimented, risk-free environment is, I think, no life at all.''
 The Hobart -- as its participants often call it -- is, however, a more regimented race than it was 10 years ago. Safety requirements have been significantly increased and, as with all offshore races, safety equipment has improved. More of it has been made compulsory, including Emergency Position Indicating Radio Beacons.
 At least 50 percent of each crew must take a course on safety at sea, and 50 percent must have completed a Category 1 ocean race. Sailors under 18 are no longer permitted to take part. The Australian authorities have revised and upgraded their contingency plans for rescue and emergency situations.
 ''The truth is, 1998 was the biggest maritime rescue operation in the history of Australia,'' Allen said. ''So I think it's made people focus.''
 He added: ''You don't have, as I've seen in some other races around the world, people getting together for one race of the year. Pretty much most of the crews in the Sydney Hobart are people racing pretty much continuously.''
 The emphasis on safety has increased costs.
 ''It probably costs about 60,000 Australian dollars to get the average boat trumped up to do the race,'' Psaltis said, or about $41,000. ''In 1998, it was 30,000 to 40,000. The cost of sails has gone up. Everything has gone up. But safety is one more issue making it harder.''
 The surprise is that the new regulations and the global economic downturn have not affected participation rates. Although there have been some high-profile withdrawals, including a Russian maxi called Trading Network, the fleet of 104 yachts for the race this year is the second-highest number of entrants since 1998.
 ''I think it's because people have built boats a while ago or ordered boats a while ago, and that's probably a reflection of earlier economic times,'' Allen said. ''People have boats, and they might as well go sailing in them.''
 Among those who plan to sail is John Walker, who was already the oldest skipper in the race's history and is now 86. Rob Fisher and Sally Smith, the children of an avid Sydney-Hobart competitor, will become the first brother and sister to skipper yachts in the race in the same year.
 Wild Oats XI, the 98-foot maxi owned by the Australian Bob Oatley, has taken line honors the last three years and is a heavy favorite to become the first yacht to do it four consecutive times. Its crew had to scramble to make final-hour repairs last year, but there have been no such dramas in the run-up to this year's race.
 ''These boats are clearly faster than any other boats,'' Allen said of the maxis. ''It's more a boat-management issue and seamanship issue for them, and absolutely, to get it there four times in a row unscathed would be a great tribute to the skills of the crew.''
 But then, Wild Oats XI has never had to sail through what Ellison and Psaltis endured in 1998.
 ''We got through it, but only through the skin of our teeth,'' Psaltis said. ''For 10 hours, we were surviving rather than racing. It was the worst I've seen and something I don't want to see again. It certainly did change our lives.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The dismasted yacht Stand Aside towing a life raft off the Australian southeast coast in 1998. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IAN MAINSBRIDGE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAILING (89%); BOAT RACING (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); BOATING & RAFTING (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (94%); HOBART, AUSTRALIA (93%) PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); TASMANIA, AUSTRALIA (78%) AUSTRALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008



901 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Nostalgia for the Small-Town Values of Bedford Falls

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Wonderful? Sorry, George, It's a Pitiful, Dreadful Life,'' by Wendell Jamieson (Arts pages, Dec. 19):
 ''It's a Wonderful Life'' was made for an audience that understood the suffering that total self-sacrifice could require and didn't scorn it. It's no mistake that the movie's action culminates with the return of George Bailey's brother, a soldier, from World War II. 
 The overarching message is Christian, albeit in what has become one of Christianity's less popular aspects: that self-sacrifice for others is ultimately redemptive and transformative. It's a ''dreadful life''? Many think not. 
 Patricia Sette
 Sterling, Mass., Dec. 20, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Wendell Jamieson's nostalgia seems to be mainly for a recherche film he saw as a boy. But for those of us who know the reality behind Frank Capra's brilliant before-and-after parable, the nostalgia is not so much for the movie itself but rather for the lost world it represents: an unself-conscious world of minimal media -- newspapers, Life magazine and radio -- that valued honesty, simplicity, chastity, humility and simpler, quieter entertainments.
 For me, ''It's a Wonderful Life'' will never lose its ability to carry me back to my own privileged upbringing in a real-world George Bailey small town. 
 Ken Gaulin
 Cambridge, Mass., Dec. 20, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I enjoyed reading Wendell Jamieson's essay on the classic ''It's a Wonderful Life,'' retitling it as something less glowing and much more appropriate to the tougher times most of us have this Christmas holiday when many more banks are failing than were in Bedford Falls.
 Mr. Jamieson described how the town might have fared better economically if in fact George hadn't been born and his angel hadn't intervened.
 What's gotten us all in this huge pickle today is the take-the-money schemes of the Mr. Potters of the world. What can save us are the honesty and concern for others of the Georges of the world.
 George's angel, Clarence, needs to get busy now that he's earned his wings. Tom King
 West St. Paul, Minn., Dec. 20, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I wasn't much of an ''It's a Wonderful Life'' fan until I read Wendell Jamieson's ''Wonderful? Sorry, George, It's a Pitiful, Dreadful Life.'' 
 Mr. Jamieson's attempt at iconoclasm says so much about what's wrong with the world. It misses the point of what doing the right thing on a daily basis, instead of the exciting thing in one heroic moment, adds up to in George Bailey's life, or would add up to in anyone's life.
 A ''cooler'' nightlife cannot replace the many difficult, selfless choices so many unsung people make on a regular basis. Such a worldview, which allows no room for the redemption that comes with living a good life in a broken world, is not just cynical. It's morally bankrupt. It does not reflect the reality of the world we live in and what it needs.
 Angela C. Wu
 Washington, Dec. 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FILM (90%); CHRISTMAS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); RELIGION (70%); WORLD WAR II (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (51%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (56%); MINNESOTA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (56%)

TITLE: It's a Wonderful Life (Movie)>; It's a Wonderful Life (Movie)>

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008



902 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 40 words

HEADLINE: Correction

 BODY:
A chart last Thursday with an article about the recession's effect on Americans' decisions to have cosmetic surgery misspelled the given name of the actress who said that she was dissatisfied with Botox. She is Courteney Cox, not Courtney. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008



903 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: After 5 Down Days, Wall Street Shifts Higher

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street rose modestly in light trading Wednesday after the government released downbeat, but unsurprising, readings on joblessness and consumer spending.
 The Labor Department said initial applications for unemployment benefits rose more than anticipated to a seasonally adjusted 586,000 last week. That is the highest level since November 1982, though the work force has grown by about half since then.
 The swelling rate of unemployment has been a particular concern for investors. The more people lose their jobs, or fear they will lose their jobs, the more they close their wallets. And consumer spending accounts for more than two-thirds of economic activity. 
 Other reports were gloomy, but less grim than anticipated. The Commerce Department said consumer spending dropped 0.6 percent in November -- the fifth consecutive monthly drop -- and durable goods orders fell 1 percent in November.
 The reaction on Wall Street to Wednesday's economic data was practically a shrug. Investors have largely been factoring in bad numbers for the fourth quarter as Americans adjusted to the slumping economy, and as banks and automakers scrambled for financing from the federal government to stay afloat.
 Now even automakers outside the United States are getting seriously bruised by plummeting demand from consumers. Toyota, Japan's No. 1 automaker, said its global vehicle sales sank 21.8 percent in November -- the biggest drop in eight years -- while its rival Nissan said global production tumbled by a record 33.7 percent, mostly because of depressed sales in the United States.
 ''We've got to get through this year -- it's been crazy -- and just start over,'' said Stephen Carl, principal and head of equity trading at The Williams Capital Group.
 Wednesday's trading was considered largely inconsequential in the grand scheme of things. Trading volumes were extremely low ahead of Christmas and the markets close early Wednesday. And with only four trading days left in 2008, most buying and selling appears to be investors trying to dress up their portfolios after a year of unprecedented market turmoil.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 48.99 points, or 0.58 percent, to 8,468.48, after falling for five straight sessions. The blue-chip index is well off its November lows, but is still down for the typically strong month of December.
 Broader stock indicators also gained. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index futures rose 4.99 points, or 0.58 percent, to 868.15, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 3.36 points, or 0.22 percent, to 1,524.90.
 Bond prices, like stocks, were little changed. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was flat at 2.18 percent.
 In the oil markets, falling crude inventories failed to lift oil prices Wednesday, as traders focused instead on another round of bad economic news. Light, sweet crude for February delivery fell $3.63 to settle at $35.35 a barrel on the New York Mercantiles Exchange. The Nymex, like the stock and bond markets, will be closed on Thursday and re-open on Friday.
 Investors expecting more evidence of slowing energy demand got a bit of a surprise as the Energy Department reported crude inventories dropped last week.
 But Americans continue to cut back on driving amid the worst recession in a generation, leading to growing stockpiles of gasoline and eroding demand for motor fuel.
 ''I don't see anything out of this report that's really going to change this downward move,'' said Jim Ritterbusch, president of the energy consultancy, Ritterbusch and Associates. ''Things are going to remain under downside pressure through the balance of this year and probably into the new year.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (79%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FUTURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); CHRISTMAS (62%); OIL & GAS PRICES (62%)

COMPANY: WILLIAMS CAPITAL GROUP LP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008



904 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WEST; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: California: Law School Lure: No Tuition

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
A law school opening next fall in Southern California is offering a big incentive to top students who might be thinking twice about the cost of a legal education during the recession: free tuition for three years. The offer is part of a strategy by Erwin Chemerinsky, a renowned constitutional law scholar and dean of the new school at the University of California, Irvine, to attract Ivy League-caliber students to the first new public law school in the state in 40 years. The law school hopes to offer full scholarships to all 60 members of its inaugural class in 2009. Mr. Chemerinsky is convinced the prospect of free education, combined with a public-interest curriculum and the University of California moniker, will fill his first class and land Irvine among the nation's best law schools. ''Our goal is to be a top 20 law school from the first time we are ranked,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (91%); LAW SCHOOL RANKINGS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); CURRICULA (88%); LEGAL EDUCATION (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (87%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008



905 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: Arizona: Flood-Warning Gauges

BYLINE: By JOHN DOUGHERTY

 BODY:
Two flash-flood-warning gauges have been installed in Havasu Creek to provide early alerts to hikers, campers and members of the Havasupai tribe whose remote village, Supai, at the bottom of the Grand Canyon has been subjected to repeated and dangerous flash floods. The Arizona Department of Water Resources led a multiagency effort to install the $60,000 worth of gauges after a flash flood on Aug. 15 forced the emergency evacuation of several hundred tribal members and tourists camping near the spectacular Havasu Falls. The flood destroyed hiking trails and a campground. Gov. Janet Napolitano signed the Havasupai Reservation Declaration in October, directing state agencies with available resources to assist the tribe, whose economy depends on tourism. The tribe has also received a $1 million donation from the San Manuel Band of Serrano Mission Indians, near Highland, Calif., to help rebuild the campground, foot bridges and hiking trails. The tribe expects to reopen the campground by May 1. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIKING (91%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); CAMPING (90%); FLOOD CONTROL (90%); RV PARKS & CAMPGROUNDS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (87%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (71%); WATER QUALITY (56%)

PERSON: JANET NAPOLITANO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008



906 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Effort Under Way To Sell Madoff Unit

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED; Eric Dash contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As the investigation into Bernard L. Madoff's money management business intensifies, efforts are under way to sell quickly the trading unit, which was once the heart of Mr. Madoff's operations. 
 Last week, a court-appointed trustee, Irving Picard, hired the investment bank Lazard to manage the sale of the business, which includes a big market-making operation and a proprietary trading desk. Now, the two are trying to find a buyer for the unit before its more than 120 employees drift away.
 The efforts to sell the trading operations of Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities are taking place amid a broadening tableau of events related to the fraud case. On Wednesday, New York University sued J. Ezra Merkin, a money manager who had invested $94 million of the college's funds in Mr. Madoff's firm. 
 The university accused Mr. Merkin and two of his funds of placing its money with Mr. Madoff without notification or proper due diligence, according to the lawsuit, filed in New York State Supreme Court. 
 It is only the latest lawsuit filed against the so-called feeder funds into Mr. Madoff's vast investment advisory arm. 
 Separately, a judge in Manhattan issued a temporary restraining order barring Mr. Merkin ''from taking any action to liquidate Ariel'' before a Jan. 6 hearing. Mr. Merkin is also prohibited from taking any action to move assets of the Ariel or Gabriel funds, according to the order.
 What will happen to the trading operations, however, is also being watched on Wall Street. Mr. Madoff's trading business in Midtown Manhattan led to his rise to prominence. 
 Mr. Madoff began his career by trading over-the-counter stocks. By the 1980s, his firm handled up to 5 percent of the trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 The firm had approximately $300 million in assets in 2000 at the height of the Internet bubble and ranked among the top trading and securities firms in the nation. What set Mr. Madoff apart from his peers was his early and aggressive push into electronic trading at a time when the business was still built mainly on the decades-old system of human traders on an exchange floor. At one point, the firm was the largest market maker on the Nasdaq market, regularly operating as both a buyer and seller of many widely traded securities.
 Among the supervisors of the unit was Peter Madoff, Mr. Madoff's younger brother and the firm's chief compliance officer. Mr. Madoff's sons, Andrew Madoff and Mark Madoff, also worked in the trading operations. Those family members have not been implicated in the case.
 Now, the firm is being liquidated under the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, the government-chartered fund set up to help protect investors of failed brokerage firms, to wring at least a small portion of the $50 billion that is estimated to have been lost by investors in the apparent Ponzi scheme. The Madoff firm's operations have been frozen by the S.I.P.C., although its employees are still being paid.
 Several potential buyers have already been contacted to gauge their interest in the business, while other firms have already expressed their interest, a person briefed on the sales process said. Among the potential buyers are other brokerage shops looking to add or expand an equities trading platform and private equity firms.
 But Mr. Picard and Lazard face several challenges, the biggest perhaps being time. A securities firm's most valuable assets are its people, and the longer the sales process takes, the more likely it is that important personnel will begin to leave. That has not happened yet, this person said.
 And while customers normally use several firms to act as market makers for stocks, many may not return if Mr. Madoff's firm is prevented from operating for an extended period of time.
 Mr. Picard and Lazard must also sort through the trading unit's voluminous records, which are in disarray, according to a person with direct knowledge of the Madoff firm's operations. That could make it harder to arrange a sale of the business.
 Mr. Picard could not be reached for comment. A Lazard spokeswoman declined to comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (74%); JUDGES (72%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (66%); RANKINGS (50%)

COMPANY: BERNARD L MADOFF INVESTMENT SECURITIES (71%); SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION CORP (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (60%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008



907 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
INTERACTIVE: Revolving Door For a Design House
 In the last eight years, four designers have worked for the Bill Blass brand. Eric Wilson discusses their role in the fall of the house of Blass. 
 nytimes.com/style
 SLIDESHOW: COMMUNION, WITHOUT CRUMBS
 With the help of four generations of family members, the Cavanagh Company has grown into the largest baker of communion wafers in the world.
 nytimes.com/business
 SLIDESHOW: A LITERARY CLUBHOUSE
 A look at the home of Lisa and Richard Howorth, who own Square Books, an institution in Oxford, Miss., and who often invite visiting authors to stay at their five-bedroom house instead of in a hotel.
 nytimes.com/home
 AUDIO: TECH TALK:
 Windows 7, Gadgets 
 And Personal Technology
 This week: Microsoft's next big thing, the Windows 7 operating system; offbeat gadgets for entertainment mavens; and news about personal technology.
 nytimes.com/techtalk
 VIDEO: FINDING BRUNO S.
 The enigmatic former star of two of Werner Herzog's movies sings in Berlin.
 nytimes.com/music
 Paper Cuts Christmas Past
 ''Merry Christmas!'' a new book by Karal Ann Marling, demonstrates that the holiday has evolved constantly over the years.
 nytimes.com/papercuts
 Economix Unwilling to Work?
 Casey B. Mulligan, an economist at the University of Chicago, considers the possibility that labor supply, not demand, is causing unemployment to rise.
 nytimes.com/economix
 Bits Google's Machiavellianism
 Google's offer to help Yahoo fend off Microsoft's hostile takeover bid was one of the technology world's defining moments of the year.
 nytimes.com/bits
 City Room 
 Rockefeller Center's Tree, 
 Child of the Depression
 A look at the history of a New York tradition, which had its humble start in 1931 while Rockefeller Center was still under construction.
 nytimes.com/cityroom
 Question of the Day: What is your worst regifting experience? Share your thoughts at: nytimes.com/home

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS
 MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (74%); CHRISTMAS (72%); WRITERS (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (70%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (93%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (93%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (93%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (69%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008



908 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: GMAC Easily Wins Bank Vote

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH and VIKAS BAJAJ; Louise Story contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Federal regulators will permit the financing arm of General Motors to become a bank and gain access to billions of dollars in government aid, a crucial step that will help ensure the survival of the company. 
 In a 4 to 1 vote, the Federal Reserve Board approved GMAC's application to transform itself into a bank holding company ''in light of the unusual and exigent circumstances'' affecting the financial markets. The move will allow GMAC to tap as much as $6 billion in government bailout money. The approval came as GMAC bondholders were facing a Friday deadline to vote to approve a complex transaction that would significantly reduce the company's outstanding debt. 
 As of Dec. 17, bondholders had agreed to convert less than 60 percent of their debt into preferred shares. Some big bondholders like the investment firm Pimco have said they do not intend to exchange bonds unless Cerberus Capital Management -- the private equity firm that owns 51 percent of GMAC -- puts more money into the company. 
 GMAC has been hit with huge losses in both its mortgage and auto loan businesses. The approval from federal regulators may help persuade remaining bondholders and should make it easier for the company to raise money. It should also help General Motors, which owns a minority stake in GMAC and depends on the firm to finance some of its cars. 
 The Fed's decision comes days after the Bush administration said it would tap the bailout fund to provide emergency loans to General Motors and Chrysler to buy them time to reorganize and avoid having to file for bankruptcy protection. Now G.M. is seeking longer-term support from the incoming Obama administration.
 Cerberus will be forced to cut its stake in the new bank holding company and become a passive investor. The change would very likely also scuttle Cerberus's plans to merge Chrysler Finance, another auto-lending business it controls, into GMAC. 
 A Cerberus spokesman declined to comment.
 The Fed's decision was at least the sixth time in the last few months that it has moved quickly to let nonbank lenders, which rely on credit markets for funds, become bank holding companies. This week, it granted the CIT Group, a lender to midsize and small businesses, a similar charter. The credit card lenders American Express and Discover Financial, and the investment banks Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, also became bank holding companies this fall.
 But the Fed's decision to approve GMAC is particularly controversial. One Fed governor, Elizabeth A. Duke, cast a dissenting vote. Ms. Duke, a former commercial banker and the first woman to head the American Bankers Association, joined the board of the Fed in August. 
 GMAC has to make several changes to its structure to alleviate concerns. Critics had raised questions about GMAC's financial strength, its ownership by a private equity firm and whether it was involved in too many commercial activities to become a bank. 
 The Fed, which had been considering the proposal since early November, determined that ''emergency conditions'' made it imperative that it act quickly. 
 Regulators also wanted to approve GMAC's application to become a bank so that it could apply for federal funds before a year-end deadline set by the Treasury Department. ''GMAC will be well capitalized on completion of the proposal,'' the Fed said in a public notice.
 As a condition of the Federal Reserve's approval, General Motors will have to reduce its ownership stake in GMAC to less than 10 percent, from 49 percent. An independent trustee, whose appointment will be approved by the Fed and Treasury, will sell the company's stake within the next three years. 
 Cerberus, which currently has a controlling stake, will reduce its ownership stake by distributing its interest in the company to its investors. That will leave Cerberus with less than 14.9 percent of the voting shares in GMAC and 33 percent of the total equity in the firm. No individual investors will control more than 5 percent of the voting interest in GMAC or 7.5 percent of the firm.
 Cerberus will also stop providing consulting services to GMAC, and the two entities will no longer be able to share executives. GMAC will also have to appoint new independent directors to its board to replace members who are affiliated with G.M. or Cerberus.
 GMAC has not announced any changes to its business model. But as a bank, the lender will have greater access to more stable deposits and access to loans from the Fed. Based upon a formula used by the Treasury, the company could receive as much as $6 billion in funds from the $700 billion financial rescue package.
 But the company will also be subject to more stringent federal oversight and will have to diversify its business beyond loans to car buyers and dealerships.
 In a statement, Alvaro G. de Molina, GMAC's chief executive, called the Fed's decision a ''key turning point'' in the company's history and a ''critically important'' measure for the broader economy.
 GMAC has been an integral part of General Motors since it was created in 1919. It provides financing to 75 percent of the 6,450 G.M. dealers and to many of the people who buy its cars, though it has had to scale back auto lending in recent months. 
 GMAC has faltered in the last few years. Its mortgage unit, Residential Capital, has suffered significant losses on home loans it made during the recent housing boom, and more recently it has become virtually impossible for GMAC to sell auto loans to investors. The company has lost $8 billion in the last two years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); PREFERRED STOCK (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); BOARD CHANGES (72%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (60%)

COMPANY: ALLY FINANCIAL INC (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (56%); CIT GROUP INC (52%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (52%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); CIT (NYSE) (52%); AXP (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (52%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (52%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008



909 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE RECKONING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3217 words

HEADLINE: Once Trusted Mortgage Pioneers, Now Scrutinized

BYLINE: By MICHAEL MOSS and GERALDINE FABRIKANT; Renee Feltz contributed reporting and research.

 BODY:
Corrections Appended
''We are team-oriented, highly ethical, extremely competitive, profit-oriented, risk-averse, consumer-focused, and we try as much as possible to squeeze out any ego. Hubris is the beginning of the end.''
-- Herbert Sandler, June 2005
SAN FRANCISCO -- Herbert Sandler, the founder of the Center for Responsible Lending, is standing in his bayfront office watching a DVD that trains brokers to pitch mortgages by extolling the glories of the real estate boom.
The video reeks of hucksterism, and it infuriates Mr. Sandler. 
''I would not have approved that!'' he declares. ''I don't think we should be selling our loans based on home prices continuing to go up.''
But the DVD was produced in 2005 by a mortgage lender that Mr. Sandler and his wife, Marion, ran at the time: World Savings Bank. And the video was a small part of a broad and aggressive effort by their company to market risky loans at the height of the housing bubble.
The Sandlers long viewed themselves -- and were viewed by many others -- as the mortgage industry's model citizens. Now they too have been swept into the maelstrom surrounding who is to blame for the housing bust and the growing number of home foreclosures.
Once invited by Congress to testify about good lending practices, the Sandlers were recently parodied on ''Saturday Night Live'' as greedy bankers who handily sold their bank -- and pocketed $2.3 billion in shares and cash -- in 2006 before many of their loans began to sour.
Last month, the United States attorney's office in San Francisco announced dual inquiries into whether World Savings engaged in predatory lending practices or misled investors about its financial well-being. And the bank has been sued by numerous borrowers who claim they were misled into taking out mortgages they could not afford.
At the center of the controversy is an exotic but popular mortgage the Sandlers pioneered that helped generate billions of dollars of revenue at their bank.
Known as an option ARM -- and named ''Pick-A-Pay'' by World Savings -- it is now seen by an array of housing analysts and regulators as the Typhoid Mary of the mortgage industry.
Pick-A-Pay allowed homeowners to make monthly mortgage payments that were so small they did not cover their interest charges. That meant the total principal owed would actually grow over time, not shrink as is normally the case.
Now held by an estimated two million homeowners, the option adjustable rate mortgage will be at the forefront of a further wave of homeowner distress that could greatly delay or even derail an economic recovery, mortgage industry analysts say.
The Wachovia Corporation, which bought the Sandlers' bank two years ago, was so battered by the souring portfolio of World Savings that it began writing off losses now projected at tens of billions of dollars and eventually stopped offering option ARMs.
Through it all, the Sandlers have maintained they did nothing wrong beyond misjudging the real estate bubble.
''I didn't mislead anybody, and to the best of my knowledge, our company didn't, though there may have been an isolated case here and there,'' Mr. Sandler said. ''If home prices hadn't declined by 50 percent, nobody would be raising these questions.''
Mr. Sandler also finds it incredible that borrowers feel victimized by Pick-A-Pay. ''All of a sudden their home is worth half of what it was, and they say they didn't know.''
Yet the Sandlers embraced practices like the use of independent brokers who used questionable methods to reel in borrowers. These and other practices, critics contend, undermined the conservative lending practices that the Sandlers built their reputations upon.
''This product is the most destructive financial weapon ever deployed against the American middle class,'' said William J. Purdy III, a housing lawyer in California who is representing elderly World Savings customers struggling to repay their loans. ''People who have this loan are now trapped, and they can't get another loan.''
The Birth of Pick-A-Pay
Marion Sandler, now 78, was a Wall Street analyst in the early 1960s when she and her husband decided to buy a bank that took only savings deposits and made mortgage loans -- a thrift, or savings and loan, in banking shorthand -- and run it themselves.
Mr. Sandler, now 77, was a lawyer in Manhattan who grew up poor on the Lower East Side, the son of a compulsive gambler whose earnings were consumed by loan sharks.
The Sandlers searched for a thrift in the sizzling California market and paid $3.8 million in 1963 for an Oakland enterprise called Golden West Savings and Loan Association, which later became the parent company of World Savings. It had a main office and one branch.
When Reagan era deregulation arrived, the Sandlers and two other competitors were able to market option ARMs for the first time in 1981. Before that, lawmakers balked at the loan because of its potential peril to borrowers.
World Savings initially attracted borrowers whose incomes fluctuated, like professionals with big year-end bonuses. In the recent housing boom, when World Savings started calling the loan Pick-A-Pay, they began marketing it to a much broader audience, including people with financial troubles, like deeply indebted blue-collar workers.
As the entire thrift industry soared after deregulation, the Sandlers' business also took off. They avoided financial problems by doing things like scrutinizing borrowers' incomes to make sure loans were manageable and performing astute appraisals so the size of a mortgage was in line with the value of a home.
''Our protection was our total underwriting of the loan,'' Mr. Sandler said. ''From scratch.''
When many of the Sandlers' competitors in the thrift industry later began collapsing under the weight of bad loans and investments, Congress and the media invited the couple to speak about the proper way to do business.
''The deregulatory situation attracted bums, charlatans, crooks, phonies, con men,'' Mr. Sandler told an ABC News program in 1990.
The Sandlers also held onto World Savings' loans rather than selling them off to Wall Street to be repackaged as securities. They say this made them more alert to risky borrowers than were lenders who sold off their loans.
When foreclosures occurred, World Savings executives would drive to the house to see if they had made mistakes appraising the property or underwriting the loan. ''We called these the van tours,'' Mr. Sandler said. ''And we would say, 'O.K., have we done anything wrong here?' ''
More Philanthropic Work
As the Sandlers' wealth increased, so did their philanthropy. Over the years, they financed scientific research and groups like Human Rights Watch and the American Civil Liberties Union. More recently they founded and financed ProPublica, a nonprofit investigative journalism enterprise that has collaborated with The New York Times on coverage and a news archive. Its 14-member advisory board includes two top New York Times Company editors.
The Sandlers' giving intersected most directly with their business interests in 2002 when they helped create an advocacy group for low-income borrowers called the Center for Responsible Lending.
The center was the successor to a smaller organization in North Carolina, whose director, Martin Eakes, had helped the elderly and minorities avoid predatory banking practices.
''I said, 'Isn't that incredible what he is doing?' '' Mr. Sandler recalled. ''I said to Martin, 'What would it take to do what you do on a national scale?' ''
Mr. Eakes, who became the center's executive director, had also just helped secure a new mortgage lending law in North Carolina that prohibited, among other things, the use of prepayment penalties.
''I hated prepayment penalties,'' Mr. Eakes recalled, noting that such charges make it hard for cash-poor borrowers to refinance a loan for one with more manageable terms.
While Mr. Sandler supported the center's antipredatory goals, he disagreed with Mr. Eakes's position on prepayment penalties and sought to change his mind.
Mr. Sandler acknowledges that some lenders used the penalties to lock borrowers into ''absolutely awful'' loans. But he said his bank used the penalties to fend off unethical brokers who enticed borrowers with low-interest-rate loans that often had hidden fees.
''You have to understand how independent brokers work,'' Mr. Sandler says. ''They are the whores of the world.''
Despite that distaste, World Savings made extensive use of brokers. By 2006, they were generating some 60 percent of its loan business, he acknowledged. He said he was compelled to do so because of brokers were a dominant force in the mortgage industry.
As a check on the representations that brokers made to borrowers, World Savings sought to telephone applicants to ensure that they understood the terms of their loan. These calls reached only about half of the borrowers, however, according to a former World Savings executive. Mr. Sandler did not dispute that point.
Customer complaints that an unethical broker had misrepresented the terms of World Savings loans is at the heart of a lawsuit filed against the bank and others in Alameda County, Calif. The broker was sentenced to a year in prison for misleading at least 90 World Savings borrowers.
Mr. Sandler points out that the company was itself a victim of this broker, that it cooperated fully with authorities, and that it was not charged with any wrongdoing.
Others have also raised questions about how carefully World Savings disclosed lending terms to its borrowers.
In August, a federal judge in South Carolina ruled that World Savings had violated the federal Truth in Lending Act by telling borrowers that choosing to make minimum monthly payments on Pick-A-Pay mortgages might cause their principal to grow -- when in fact it certainly would occur.
Wachovia, which is defending the case, has appealed the ruling. Mr. Sandler said he was not familiar with this lawsuit, but generally, he says, ''Wachovia's legal defense is deficient.''
A Speedy Merger
By 2005, World Savings lending had started to slow, after more than quadrupling since 1998. The next year, Wachovia bought the bank in a hastily arranged deal. The Sandlers say they sold their firm at the top of the market because they were growing older and wanted to devote themselves to philanthropy.
Some current and former Wachovia officials say that the merger was agreed to in days and that it was impossible to conduct a thorough vetting of World Savings' loans. Others say the portfolio was adequately scrutinized.
''Herb and his wife had run a tight ship,'' said Robert Brown, a Wachovia board member. ''There was not a huge concern about it because they had not had any delinquencies and foreclosures.''
Others were less sanguine. The creditworthiness of World Savings borrowers edged down from 2004 to 2006, according to Wachovia's data. Over all, Pick-A-Pay borrowers had credit scores well below the industry average for traditional loans.
''I don't think anyone thought a Pick-A-Pay product was a customer friendly product,'' says a former Wachovia executive who requested anonymity to preserve professional relationships. ''It is easy to mislead them.''
World Savings lending volume dipped again in 2006 shortly after the sale to Wachovia was initiated, according to the company's federal filings.
This prompted World Savings to attract more borrowers by taking a step that some regulators were starting to frown upon, and which the company had been resisting for years: it allowed borrowers to make monthly payments based on an annual interest rate of just 1.5 percent. While World Savings continued to scrutinize borrowers' ability to manage increased payments, the move to rock-bottom rates lured customers whose financial reliability was harder to verify.
Russell W. Kettell, a former chief financial officer of World Savings, says the merger created ''pressure'' for ''a pretty good-sized increase in loan volume.''
Asked if Wachovia ordered World Savings to drop its rate, Mr. Kettell said, ''No, but they wanted volume and wanted growth.''
A swift increase in option ARM lending had prompted federal regulators to weigh tougher controls on lending standards in 2005. Of the $238 billion in option ARM loans made nationally in 2005, World Savings issued about $52 billion, or more than one-fifth of the total.
Susan Schmidt Bies, a governor of the Federal Reserve System until last year, said the surge in volume in ARM lending caught regulators by surprise, and that she regrets not acting more quickly to protect borrowers because she believes that they could not understand the risky nature of option ARMs.
''When you get into people whose mortgage payments are taking half of their cash flow, they are in over their heads, and these loans should not have been sold to this customer base,'' she said. ''This makes me sick when I see this happening.''
In March 2006, two months before the Wachovia deal, Mr. Sandler wrote regulators and objected to several aspects of the new rules, including the regulator's conclusion that option ARMS ''were untested in a stress environment.''
He argued in the letter that World Savings had few loan losses in the recession of the early 1990s. Then again, the current financial crisis is far more severe than what occurred then -- far more severe than anything the country has faced since the Great Depression.
By the third quarter of this year, Wachovia was projecting $26.1 billion of losses on a World Savings loan portfolio worth a total of about $124 billion. About 6.2 percent of the Pick-A-Pay loans were more than 90 days late, it said, compared with an industry average of 8 percent on option ARMs and 1 percent on Wachovia's traditional loans.
Wells Fargo, which is now buying Wachovia, is more pessimistic: it expects losses of $36 billion on the loans unless efforts to stem foreclosures help rescue part of the portfolio. The losses caused analysts and others to reassess the Sandlers' legacy.
After the ''Saturday Night Live'' skit, Paul Steiger, the former executive editor of The Wall Street Journal and the editor in chief of ProPublica, was among those who wrote to the show's producer, Lorne Michaels, saying the Sandlers had been unfairly vilified. Mr. Michaels apologized for the skit (which suggested that the Sandlers ''should be shot'') and removed it from NBC's Web site.
Mr. Sandler says Wachovia did not work hard enough to help struggling borrowers, and that his loans became scapegoats for other problems at Wachovia. He remains confident that losses on its loans will not reach Wells Fargo's projections.
He says World Savings was hit especially hard because it had made so many loans in volatile markets like inland California, but he disputes homeowner assertions that his option ARMs are at fault.
''We have not been able to identify one delinquency, much less a foreclosure, that is due to the product,'' Mr. Sandler said, adding that ''if home prices had not dropped, you wouldn't see'' a single article.
Over all, analysts expect the option ARM fallout to be brutal. Fitch Ratings, a leading credit rating agency, recently reported that payments on nearly half of the $200 billion worth of option ARMs it tracks will jump 63 percent in the next two years -- causing mortgage delinquencies to rise sharply.
Mr. Sandler says that his loans are not in the pool that will become distressed in the next few years; he says they reset at a later date. He adds that were he not sure that the market would recover he would have sold his Wachovia stock at the time of the takeover. His charity has sold off much of its Wachovia stock, but he said he and his wife retain a substantial portion of their personal holdings.
Still, the Sandlers have their detractors.
''As the largest and most respected regulated institution providing option ARMs, I hold the Sandlers responsible because a large percentage of home borrowers -- but not all -- should have been advised that it was in their best interest to have a fixed-rate mortgage,'' said Robert Gnaizda, general counsel for the Greenlining Institute, a homeowner advocacy group. ''I believe that financial institutions have a quasi-fiduciary responsibility not to mislead the borrower.''
Mr. Sandler insists that World Savings prided itself on ethical conduct and that untoward behavior was never tolerated. ''We were also a family, and you expected people to live their personal and business lives in a particular way,'' he said.
The Reckoning: Articles in this series are exploring the causes of the financial crisis.
Correction: January 6, 2009, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A headline on Dec. 25 with an article about Herbert and Marion Sandler, bankers and philanthropists whose World Savings Bank originated a type of adjustable-rate mortgage called Pick-a-Pay that has led to many foreclosures as the real estate market and the economy collapsed, described incorrectly the consequences to the Sandlers of the criminal and legal investigations of the practices of the bank, which they sold to Wachovia in 2006. As the article noted, the Sandlers were once trusted mortgage pioneers and now face scrutiny, but they are not ''pariahs.''
Correction: January 16, 2009, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Dec. 25 about Herbert and Marion Sandler, bankers and philanthropists whose World Savings Bank pioneered a type of adjustable-rate mortgage called the Option ARM, referred imprecisely to their discussions on prepayment penalties with Martin Eakes, the chief executive officer of the Center for Responsible Lending, which the Sandlers helped found in 2002. During the housing boom, they were among those who persuaded Mr. Eakes of the acceptability of some proposed state regulations that would strictly limit, though not ban, prepayment penalties on the small fraction of prime mortgages that had them, including those from World Savings. Mr. Eakes and the Center for Responsible Lending have continued to oppose prepayment penalties generally, on both prime and sub-prime mortgages; Mr. Eakes did not ''drop his opposition.''
Correction: June 11, 2009, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Dec. 25, 2008, about Herbert and Marion Sandler, whose World Savings Bank marketed adjustable-rate mortgages called option ARMs, referred imprecisely to a decision after the bank's sale to Wachovia was initiated in 2006 to get more customers for such mortgages by lowering to 1 percent the interest rate borrowers would have to pay. World Savings reduced the rate then from 2.85 percent to 1.5 percent, but it was Wachovia that lowered the rate to 1 percent, in 2007, according to data the Sandlers provided after the article was published.
The article also gave insufficient context for comments by Susan Schmidt Bies, a former Federal Reserve System governor, regretting that federal regulators had not imposed tougher controls on lending standards for option ARMs before the collapse in the real estate market that led to bank losses, foreclosures and recession. She was discussing option ARM lenders generally, not World Savings specifically.
These corrections were delayed by research and consideration at The Times.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CHANGING HANDS: Marion Sandler, left, and Herbert Sandler, talked with Maryellen Herringer, a Wachovia board member, in 2006. The Wachovia Corporation bought the Sandlers' bank that year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCIO JOSE SANCHEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 GOLDEN TIMES: Herbert and Marion Sandler outside the Golden West Savings and Loan in 1969. Golden became World Savings' parent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD A. WRIGHT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A24) GRAPHIC: OPTION ARM'S: Option ARMs are a type of adjustable-rate mortgage, pioneered by World Savings, that let buyers choose among various payment options. Because these mortgages can tempt buyers by offering low initial rates that can suddenly rise after a few years, they are now largely faulted for abetting the mortgage crisis. Few option ARMs are currently being offered, although they make up about 7 percent of outstanding mortgages. (Source: Inside Mortgage Finance) (pg.A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); CREDIT REGULATION (89%); PREDATORY LENDING (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); FORECLOSURE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (75%); HOUSING BUBBLE (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); BUSINESS TORTS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); LITIGATION (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (85%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: HERB SANDLER (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



910 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2132 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: December 25, 2008

 BODY:
International
 ESTONIA SPY CASE 
 Rattles Nerves at NATO
 By 2001, Herman Simm occupied a post that satisfied his fascination with secrets: As chief of Estonia's National Security Authority, his job was to secure all classified communication between Estonia and its allies. And prosecutors say they have established why he was so interested in secrets: They believe he was passing information to a Russian spy. The case has unnerved NATO as it prepares to integrate more Eastern European nations once in the grip of Soviet security services. PAGE A6 
 THE POPULAR ITALIAN OF AFGHANISTAN
 When the foreign armies in Afghanistan leave, in what condition they will leave the country is anyone's guess. But Afghans of all ethnic and political stripes, even the Taliban, seem likely to count Alberto Cairo as one foreigner who left the country better than he found it. Mr. Cairo, 56, who is working for the International Committee of the Red Cross, is the most celebrated Western relief official in Afghanistan. PAGE A8 
 IRAQ'S EX-SPEAKER SPREADS BLAME
 The former speaker of the Iraqi Parliament, a Sunni, blamed political infighting and the United States for his downfall, as the Parliament's leading Sunni coalition, which has been a crucial counterweight to the Shiite majority, appeared to be on the verge of collapse. PAGE A8 
 SOMALIA'S PRESIDENT WILL RESIGN
 The president of Somalia's beleaguered transitional government, a former warlord widely blamed for his country's deepening crisis, is expected to resign over the weekend, several Somali officials said. PAGE A10 
 GUINEA SINKS DEEPER INTO DISORDER
 The junior military officers in Guinea who claimed they had seized power in a coup attempt said they might not give up control of the country for two years and even went ahead to name one of their own as president. The coup attempt has thus far unfolded without bloodshed, at least according to preliminary reports. But Conakry, Guinea's seaside capital, seemed to be a breeze away from toppling into the sea and chaos. PAGE A10 
 Cardinal Critical of China Resigns A13 
 From Mexico To New York and Back, To Celebrate Christmas
 The Christmas season joins people with their loved ones wherever it is celebrated, but in few places, perhaps, does it unite whole towns so completely in rituals of music and merrymaking as in rural Mexico. The villagers of Chinantla strolled through the streets the other night with small statues of Joseph and Mary. They arrived eventually at the home of a local matriarch, where a celebration began. The party even draws back the thousands of residents who have moved north to New York. PAGE A8 
 NATIONAL
 HAWAIIANS SEE SPIRIT
 Of Islands in Obama
 President-elect Barack Obama's peaceful countenance, even during the rigors of the campaign, has elicited admiring comment even from those who could not be considered admirers. And many observers in Hawaii, where Mr. Obama was born and spent his adolescence, attributes it to the ''Aloha Spirit,'' a peaceful state of mind and a friendly attitude of acceptance to a variety of ideas and cultures. PAGE A14 
 DEEMED TO BE UNDEANLY
 Donald J. Guter lost his job as dean of the Duquesne University Law School despite higher bar exam passage rates and success at national moot court competitions under his tenure. The official explanation is that he lacked leadership and was disloyal to the central administration. The unofficial explanation is simply that he did not get along with the university's president. PAGE A14
 WEATHER DELAYS TRAP THOUSANDS
 Snow and ice set off delays and cancellations of flights and rail and bus travel around the country, leaving thousands of people at impromptu Christmas Eve camp-outs in airport terminals and rail and bus stations. PAGE A22 
 SANTA BUSH'S PRESENTS
 Following presidential tradition, President Bush is handing out presents -- in the form of spots on high-profile boards and commissions -- to some of his top aides. And a report released this week is predicting that the 2010 census will lead to significant changes in the makeup of the House of Representatives in the next decade. The Caucus. PAGE A22
 NEW YORK
 CITY POLICE NOT INVITED
 To Help With Inauguration
 Among the 4,000 police officers from 96 localities helping the District of Columbia police provide security for the presidential inauguration next month will not be police officers from New York City. The reason given by the capital is that the city did not respond to the request for the 2005 inauguration. To which the city says, What request? PAGE A27
 ODIN, DVA, TRI...
 There are those who need to know, for reasons of commerce, how many people pass through Times Square each day. Assorted gadgets have been considered to provide a count, but none seem to work as well as human beings. They used to be Nigerians. But these days, those human beings are likely to be Jewish, retirement-age refugees from Russia or Ukraine who live in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, and may or may not speak English. PAGE A27
 A CASUALTY OF THE HEART
 It was the dawning of the Age of Aquarius, Age of Aquarius, and in the East Village was born a little shop with vintage clothing and toys, above, and other bric-a-brac. Love Saves the Day will close next month, its owner says, a victim not of the usual cause (rising rents) but of one deeper significance: His wife, who started the store, died in August. Now Love has no soul. PAGE A28
 Neediest Cases A30 
 SPORTS
 YANKEES DEFEND SPENDING AS ALMOST A PUBLIC SERVICE
 Randy Levine, president of the Yankees, defended the team against criticism of its recent spending on free agents. In essence: We follow the rules, we make lots of money for other teams, and we try to put the best team we can on the field. What's wrong with that? PAGE B11
 A CIRCUITOUS ROUTE TO OKLAHOMA
 The road to the national championship game was not a straight one for Mike Balogun. He did not play football in his junior and senior years of high school. His return to football was two years playing semipro before going to a junior college in Scranton, Pa. Now he's a reserve linebacker for the Oklahoma Sooners. Pursuing a dream, he calls it. PAGE B12
 GUNS SEIZED AT BURRESS'S HOME
 The 40-caliber Glock semiautomatic pistol with which Plaxico Burress accidentally shot himself seems not to have been his only weapon. Police officers executing a search warrant of his New Jersey home say they seized a 9-millimeter handgun, a rifle and ammunition for .380-, .40- and .45-caliber weapons. No word on whether he will face additional charges. PAGE B13
 OBITUARIES
 AL MEYERHOFF, 61
 A leading labor, environmental and civil rights lawyer, he brought a landmark case to stop sweatshop conditions for 30,000 workers on the Pacific island of Saipan. He successfully challenged a California law that prevented illegal immigrant children from attending public school and challenged the continued use of cancer-causing pesticides. PAGE A31 
 BUSINESS
 AN EFFORT TO RECOUP
 Some of Madoff Losses
 A court-appointed trustee is trying to see to it that the one-time heart of Bernard L. Madoff's operations, the trading unit, is sold before important employees have a chance to move to other jobs. The hope is to recover at least a small portion of the money lost by investors in Madoff's supposed scheme. PAGE B1
 CORPORATE JET MARKET COOLS
 Seven months ago, hundreds of the very rich were paying $500,000 just to secure a spot in line to buy a $60 million Gulfstream 650, which was not expected to hit runways until 2012. But now corporate jets are being shed and jet brokers say their inventories are up and demand is down worldwide. PAGE B1
 SALES NOW! NO WAITING!
 ''Savings so good we couldn't wait!'' Neiman Marcus proclaims in an ad scratching out the word ''after'' from its ''after Christmas sale.'' Translation: When foot traffic and sales flagged on the all-important weekend before Christmas (though Saturday was pretty good, all things considered), some retailers decided to jump-start their traditional postholiday sales. PAGE B1
 SPENDING RISES, BUT INCOME DROPS
 At least some of the money people are saving on gasoline seems to be going somewhere else: consumer spending, when adjusted for inflation, rose 0.6 percent in November, its largest gains in two years. But personal income declined and job losses grew. PAGE B3
 How to Manage a Hedge Fund B3
 An I.P.O. Test: Will Sex Sell? B7
 Circuits
 The Help Is Out There
 You do not have to wait on hold to find help for your latest tech problem. The Internet can put you in touch with plenty of other users sharing their wisdom, often free. PAGE B6
 MUSICAL MOVES
 How to transfer music from a PC to a Mac, trying to open Microsoft Works files with Microsoft Word software, and online tips for selecting a digital camera. PAGE B7
 RUSSIA'S RELIGIOUS PRESS REBOUNDS
 By 1918, the Soviet regime had shut down the nearly 600 newspapers and magazines throughout Russia devoted to Orthodox subjects. But the post-Soviet Orthodox resurgence has again given rise to hundreds of publications, and the view they offer does not necessarily follow the Kremlin line. PAGE B8
 Arts
 A RELIC, A PIECE OF BERLIN LORE,
 Breathes Out a Rasp and a Song
 When Bruno S. set himself up as a guest performer at the Stadtklause in Berlin, Michael Kimmelman writes, some passed him without noticing. A few others reacted with awe. And one person shed tears as Bruno S. let songs of despair, prison and bloodshed ride the notes from his accordion into the air. Page C1 
 A POET USHERS IN A STATESMAN
 Robert Frost was the first poet to read at a presidential inauguration, John F. Kennedy's. There have only been two others. At the inauguration for President-elect Barack Obama there will be a fourth, Elizabeth Alexander, who is on fellowship at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study at Harvard. Ms. Radcliffe's words evoke imagery of race, history, love and family, and are a sharp turn from poets past. Page C1 
 A Game's Geopolitical Impact C3 
 HOME
 A LITERARY BED AND BREAKFAST
 In the Land of Yoknapatawpha
 In the 29 years that Richard and Lisa Howorth have been running Square Books (and its spinoffs) in Oxford, Miss., they have turned their home into something of a B&B for writers on book tours. But the price (free) and entertainment are much better. PAGE D1
 Reading Smoke Signals D2
 ATTRACTING A WILD CROWD
 Susan Gottlieb knew what she wanted in her one-acre backyard in Beverly Hills: native plants that would not require a lot of watering. What she got in the bargain was a haven for native animals that some people might consider exotic. PAGE D4
 Don't Waste a Bubble D4
 Style
 BAG THE BED REST, OR DON'T,
 But Definitely Hit the Gym, Maybe
 Sitting on the couch with the sniffles might not be the best move after all. Exercise physiologists and infectious disease specialists are stumped as to whether working out while you are sick is a good idea, so many end up making their own rules. Page E1 
 WHAT'S COLLATERAL AMONG FRIENDS
 With things looking grim on the cash-flow front, many are turning to their own circle, social and otherwise, with a hand out. But can these arrangements place undue pressure and strain on relationships? Page E1 
 Peace on Earth and at Dinner E2 
 Editorial
 E.P.A.'S DOCTOR NO
 For years, the Bush administration has waged a campaign of scientific obfuscation, political flimflam and simple dereliction of duty to ensure that the administration did as little as possible about climate change. The guiding intelligence behind the plan has been Vice President Dick Cheney. His main point man has been Stephen Johnson, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. PAGE A32 
 WHEN CHRISTMAS COMES
 This year, you may be wondering about the carbon equation of a Christmas tree. This may be the Christmas when you wonder, or are forced to find out, just how much of the material Christmas you can leave behind. It may be the one that redefines Christmas entirely -- for better or worse. PAGE A32 
 AIM THAT SHOE AT ALBANY
 The news from the Metropolitan Transportation Authority was so bad last week that one person was arrested for trying to throw a shoe at the agency's chairman. But the real power to rescue the system lies with the New York State Legislature and Gov. David A. Paterson. PAGE A32 
 Op-Ed
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 A new book seethes with indignation at public expectations that charities be prudent, nonprofit and saintly. The author argues that those expectations make them less effective. He has a point. PAGE A33 
 HOLIDAY FICTION
 Short stories by David Rhodes, the author of the novels ''Rock Island Line'' and ''Driftless,'' and C. E. Morgan, the author of the forthcoming novel ''All the Living.'' PAGE A33 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADRIANA ZEHBRAUSKAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (88%); COUPS (86%); CHRISTMAS (84%); TALIBAN (78%); ARMIES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS & RED CRESCENT MOVEMENT (56%); INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF THE RED CROSS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (92%) ESTONIA (94%); GUINEA (93%); SOMALIA (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008



911 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Federal Cases Of Stock Fraud Drop Sharply

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Federal officials are bringing far fewer prosecutions as a result of fraudulent stock schemes than they did eight years ago, according to new data, raising further questions about whether the Bush administration has been too lax in policing Wall Street.
 Legal and financial experts say that a loosening of enforcement measures, cutbacks in staffing at the Securities and Exchange Commission, and a shift in resources toward terrorism at the F.B.I. have combined to make the federal government something of a paper tiger in investigating securities crimes. 
 At a time when the financial news is being dominated by the $50 billion Ponzi scheme that Bernard L. Madoff is accused of running, federal officials are on pace this year to bring the fewest prosecutions for securities fraud since at least 1991, according to the data, compiled by a Syracuse University research group using Justice Department figures. 
 There were 133 prosecutions for securities fraud in the first 11 months of this fiscal year. That is down from 437 cases in 2000 and from a high of 513 cases in 2002, when Wall Street scandals from Enron to WorldCom led to a crackdown on corporate crime, the data showed. 
 At the S.E.C., agency investigations that led to Justice Department prosecutions for securities fraud dropped from 69 in 2000 to just 9 in 2007, a decline of 87 percent, the data showed.
 Federal officials took issue with some of the data compiled by the Syracuse group and said that they had maintained a strong commitment to rooting out fraud and abuse in the stock markets. While the S.E.C. could not provide numbers of its own on criminal cases arising from its investigations, Scott Friedstad, the deputy director of enforcement at the commission, said the numbers did not reflect ''the reality that I see on the ground.''
 ''We are as committed as ever to vigorous enforcement efforts,'' he said. 
 But a number of investor advocates and securities lawyers who are critical of the S.E.C.'s recent performance say they will be anxiously watching the incoming Obama administration to see what steps it may take to restore the agency's battered credibility and re-establish it as a watchdog against corporate abuse. 
 President-elect Barack Obama has named Mary Schapiro, head of the Financial Services Regulatory Authority, to lead the S.E.C, and he has promised an overhaul of the agency and other financial regulatory offices to provide tougher oversight. 
 ''I think the S.E.C. has completely fallen down on the job,'' said Jacob H. Zamansky, a New York lawyer who specializes in representing investors who have lost money in fraud cases. ''They're more interested in protecting Wall Street than protecting investors. The new administration has to do a complete overhaul of the S.E.C.''
 The F.B.I., which frequently investigates stock fraud cases either on its own or in partnership with the S.E.C., has also had a sharp decline in the number of white-collar cases it has brought in the last several years -- partly a reflection of a huge shift in staffing and resources to counterterrorism operations since the Sept. 11 attacks, officials said.
 David Burnham, co-director of the Syracuse research group, which is known as the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, or TRAC, said the decline in stock fraud prosecutions growing out of the F.B.I. ''really is no surprise. It's a reflection of a choice that was made right after 9-11 to move investigators into terrorism, and this is the cost of that. 
 ''Maybe it's the correct call,'' he added, ''but with both the F.B.I. and the S.E.C., the federal government is really the only place that does white-collar crime on a systematic basis.'' 
 The economic collapse of the last few months has brought intense scrutiny of the S.E.C. amid accusations that it failed to foresee and prevent the collapse of one major financial institution after another as a result of risky overinvestment in mortgage-backed securities.
 ''As an overheated market needed a strong referee to rein in dangerously risky behavior, the commission too often remained on the sidelines,'' Arthur Levitt, who served as chairman of the S.E.C. during the Clinton administration, told the Senate Banking Committee in October.
 The Madoff scandal, now under investigation by federal prosecutors in Manhattan, has ratcheted up criticism even further.
 Christopher Cox, chairman of the S.E.C., ordered an internal investigation last week into what he said were the agency's ''multiple failures'' to investigate credible allegations of wrongdoing by Mr. Madoff.
 The S.E.C.'s own data suggests that the agency has put increasing emphasis on using non-criminal means, like civil fines and what are known as deferred prosecution agreements, in dealing with allegations of wrongdoing. The number of S.E.C. cases handled through civil or administrative remedies has grown from 503 in 2000 to 636 this year.
 Critics of the S.E.C. also attribute the decline in criminal cases to shortages in staffing and resources in the agency's investigative units, policy changes that have reduced the authority of investigators to pursue cases on their own, and a ''revolving door'' phenomenon that has led investigators to leave the agency for high-paying jobs in the industry that they once helped to monitor. 
 ''It's been awful,'' Sean Coffey, a former fraud prosecutor in New York who now represents investors in securities litigation, said of the S.E.C.'s recent enforcement record. The agency has ''neutered the ability of the enforcement staff to be as proactive as they could be. It's hard to square the motto of investor advocate with the way they've performed the last eight years.''
 Mr. Coffey said he believed the declining number of stock fraud prosecutions is partly a result of the backlash the Bush administration experienced after its aggressive pursuit of corporate crime following the Enron collapse in 2002, which led to the creation of a national task force on corporate wrongdoing.
 In the last few years, he said, ''the administration has been sending the message that we're going to loosen the binds on the market to compete in the global marketplace, and they've pulled the throttle back on prosecutions because it wasn't politically necessary anymore.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 30, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 18 about President-elect Barack Obama's choice of Mary L. Schapiro to be the next chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission misstated the name of Ms. Schapiro's current employer. She heads the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, not the Financial Services Regulatory Authority. The error was repeated in an article and editorial on Dec. 19 and in an article on Dec. 25. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (93%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); PONZI SCHEMES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); SCANDALS (73%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (71%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (60%); TERRORISM (56%)

COMPANY: LEGAL & FINANCIAL COLLECTIONS LTD (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (83%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); MARY L SCHAPIRO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008



912 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Zen State, Well, It's Hawaiian

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: KAILUA, Hawaii 

 BODY:
Even at the end of his long journey to win the White House, one question about Barack Obama came up again and again: How did he appear to stay even-tempered and levelheaded while traveling such a grueling road?
 At least part of the answer can be found here on the island of Oahu. 
 As Mr. Obama walks along the beaches while on vacation, returning to the place of his birth and his adolescence, he is relaxing after the most trying year of his life and recharging for the responsibilities that await. In both cases, friends say, he is doing it with an unexcitable steadiness that is a product of his Hawaiian upbringing.
 The mood of Mr. Obama, to many observers here in Hawaii, embodies the Aloha Spirit, a peaceful state of mind and a friendly attitude of acceptance of a variety of ideas and cultures. More than simply a laid-back vibe, many Hawaiians believe in a divine and spiritual power that provides a sustaining life energy. 
 ''When Obama gets on television, the national pulse goes down about 10 points,'' said Representative Neil Abercrombie, Democrat of Hawaii, who was close friends with Mr. Obama's parents. ''He has this incredibly calming effect. There's no question in my mind it comes from Hawaii.''
 Mr. Abercrombie, who has known the president-elect since he was born, said Mr. Obama's tranquil, even-keeled mannerisms resembled those of his grandfather, Stanley Dunham. As a child, Mr. Obama would follow Mr. Dunham everywhere, walking through the neighborhoods of Honolulu and beyond. 
 ''He gives off a little oasis of calm,'' said Mr. Abercrombie, who is spending the Christmas holidays in Hawaii. ''He is peaceful water in the maelstrom, which will serve him very well in these circumstances when there happens to be a crisis.''
 Only a year ago, many of his admirers fretted that Mr. Obama was too passive in his battle against Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. Later, some Democrats worried whether he had the tenacity to fight Senator John McCain and the Republican establishment.
 It was only as the economic crisis deepened and a full-on recession was declared that Mr. Obama's hard-to-ruffle demeanor came into focus as a valuable attribute -- not only as a candidate but, presumably, as a president-elect. 
 Mr. Obama is spending Christmas secluded in a compound of rental houses that he and his family are sharing with a group of friends from Chicago along the handsome beaches of Kailua, on the windward coast of Oahu. It seems a world away from the hustle of Honolulu, which is the face of Hawaii for many residents of the continental United States who have never traveled to this part of the world.
 For Mr. Obama, it is his first trip back since his grandmother, Madelyn Dunham, died in the hours before the election. He and his half-sister, who lives on the island, and other family members held a private memorial service on Tuesday at First Unitarian Church in Nuuanu for the woman who helped raise him.
 ''In recent weeks, I have had an opportunity to mourn our grandmother's passing. However, Barack has not,'' Maya Soetoro-Ng, Mr. Obama's half-sister, said in a statement to reporters in Honolulu. ''I also hope that Barack has an opportunity to wash off his stress in saltwater and re-energize for the long road ahead.''
 As he traveled across the United States mainland during the presidential race, campaigning on a promise of a different kind of politics, Mr. Obama was repeatedly asked by voters and reporters whether he had the stomach to win the contest. His standard answer? He learned how -- and when -- to use his sharp elbows from navigating the thorny terrain of Chicago politics.
 Left unsaid was that he learned his composure from Hawaii.
 ''He has more Hawaii in him than Chicago; he's laid-back, cool and collected,'' said Neil Kent, a professor of ethnic studies at the University of Hawaii at Manoa who has lived on the island for three decades. ''It's hard to express anger here. It's a very small, enclosed environment in which you have to live with other people.''
 Mr. Kent, who traveled to Ohio to volunteer for the Obama campaign in the final weeks of the presidential contest, said that as he watched Mr. Obama deliver speeches at rallies, there was an unmistakable air of Hawaii in his mannerisms and demeanor. 
 That is not to say, of course, that Mr. Obama did not occasionally grow agitated at his advisers, grimace when he was asked to sign one more autograph or openly scowl at reporters who sought to ask him questions during the campaign. 
 Even on the first full day of his Hawaiian vacation, as he walked onto a golf course in Waimanalo, he turned to a group of photographers and declared: ''O.K. guys, come on. How many shots do you need?'' The next day, aides said he was furious when paparazzi took a shot with a long zoom lens, showing the president-elect's buff pectorals.
 There is, of course, little expectation of privacy for Mr. Obama and his family. But friends say he has no plans to discontinue vacations, to Hawaii and elsewhere, after he becomes president. 
 This summer, as Mr. Obama visited in London with David Cameron, the head of the British Conservative Party, he was overheard talking about how leaders need to take time away to think. Without downtime, Mr. Obama said, ''you start making mistakes or you lose the big picture.''
 So Mr. Obama intends to be here until Jan. 1, recharging the Aloha Spirit. 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 30, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about President-elect Barack Obama's Hawaii upbringing and its influence on his calm demeanor misstated the first name of a professor of ethnic studies at the University of Hawaii at Manoa who commented on the laid-back nature of his state. He is Noel Kent, not Neil.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President-elect Barack Obama, in August in Hawaii, where he spent formative years, has no plans to stop vacationing there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Mr. Obama, warming up for a round of golf with friends on Wednesday in Kailua, Hawaii. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM SLOAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BEACHES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); CHRISTMAS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); NEIL ABERCROMBIE (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%) HAWAII, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008



913 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Because of Old Mix-Up, New York Police Won't Be Working at Inauguration

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
Police officers from across the country are being mobilized to help Washington manage crowds for Barack Obama's inauguration, but the New York Police Department, the biggest and one of the closest and most experienced, will not be among them.
 The reason stems from a misunderstanding seven years ago after the 9/11 terrorist attacks. 
 The District of Columbia has asked 96 localities to send a total of 4,000 officers to help with crowd control along the parade route on Jan. 20, when it expects more than 1.5 million people in the nation's capital. Those officers will augment the district's Metropolitan Police Department force of about 4,000. 
 These 8,000 officers are only part of a 60-agency security force, the largest ever assembled for an inauguration and possibly in the history of the country. In 2005, Washington brought in 3,000 officers from out of town to augment its force of 3,600, and fewer than two dozen security agencies were involved.
 While many police departments say they are proud to be sending contingents, for which they will be reimbursed, the New York police were never asked.
 The matter is of interest now because some jurisdictions, like Los Angeles County, are sending deputy sheriffs at more expense than would be likely for an equivalent contingent from New York. In addition, New York officers are missing out on a chance to participate in a historic national ceremony. 
 Traci Hughes, a spokeswoman for the Metropolitan Police Department, said that New York was not asked to send officers this time because the city had not sent any officers to the previous inauguration, in 2005.
 ''We were working under the assumption that because New York didn't want to participate in 2005, we presumed they didn't want to participate this time, when the demands would be greater,'' Ms. Hughes said.
 But Paul J. Browne, the chief spokesman for the New York Police Department, said the department was not aware of any request in 2005. 
 He said that in early September 2001, Washington did ask New York to send a contingent to the annual meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, scheduled for the end of the month. The meeting was expected to be a target of anti-globalization protesters, who had made their mark in violent demonstrations during a world trade meeting in Seattle in 1999.
 The request from Washington arrived shortly before Sept. 11. At the time, Mr. Browne said, the Police Department was reviewing liability and indemnification issues before agreeing to send any officers. But once the terrorists struck, the whole matter was dropped.
 ''It just fell through the cracks,'' he said. 
 Since then, Washington has apparently labored under the misimpression that New York was not interested in sending officers to augment the local force. Mr. Browne said that there was no such feeling in New York and that the city had sent contingents to other cities, including more than 300 officers and emergency equipment to New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina in 2005.
 ''It's not upsetting as much as it is perplexing, because of our proximity to Washington,'' Mr. Browne said.
 Kristopher Baumann, head of Washington's police union, said he, too, was surprised.
 ''No one weighed the proximity to Washington or their experience, and it seems a little troubling when you have large urban agencies very close to us that the request was not made,'' he said. ''I question how well thought out this was.''
 Other large police forces have reacted to Washington's request in a variety of ways as local budgets are strained in the tight economy.
 Philadelphia, for example, is sending 290 officers and supervisors. Police Commissioner Charles H. Ramsey, who was the police chief in Washington during the 2001 and 2005 inaugurations, said Washington initially asked Philadelphia for 48 officers but expanded the request when it realized the crowd could be the biggest ever. He said he asked for volunteers, and more than 500 officers put up their hands.
 ''We chose our best officers, as a reward for a job well done,'' Mr. Ramsey said. ''They represent our city, it's a historic event and our people are pretty excited about it.''
 He said he was certain that the department would be reimbursed for all costs for the three-day assignment.
 The City of Los Angeles, however, was not interested in sending any of its police officers. Although Chief William J. Bratton actively campaigned for Mr. Obama, a spokesman said he believed it made more sense for departments on the East Coast to respond.
 But Los Angeles County agreed to send 112 sheriff's deputies, over the vocal opposition of some county supervisors.
 Ms. Hughes of the Metropolitan Police declined to describe the overall costs of importing 4,000 officers or how much of the reimbursement costs would come from the federal government.
 ''Rest assured, everyone will be reimbursed,'' she said. ''For what and how much, I can't be specific.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SHERIFFS (79%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); CITIES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (61%); GLOBALIZATION (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008



914 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 736 words

 BODY:
FRAUD PROSECUTIONS DROP Federal officials are bringing far fewer prosecutions over fraudulent stock schemes, according to a Syracuse University research group using Justice Department figures. There were 133 prosecutions for securities fraud in the first 11 months of this fiscal year, down from a high of 513 cases in 2002. 
 CENTER OF MORTGAGE CRISIS At World Savings Bank, Herbert and Marion Sandler pioneered an exotic but popular mortgage that helped generate billions of dollars of revenue. Known as an ''option ARM,'' it is now seen as the Typhoid Mary of the mortgage industry. [A1.] 
 VON TRAPP LEGACY Sam von Trapp -- grandson of Maria, depicted in ''The Sound of Music'' -- is taking over the von Trapp Ski Lodge, and the legacy of a family that has had its share of ups and downs and disagreements. [A1.]
 DISMAL RETAIL SEASON The number of shoppers at American stores fell by double digit percentages this year, according to a report from ShopperTrak, confirming predictions of an awful holiday season for retailers. Concerns about the economy, as well as snowstorms, kept many shoppers home. [B1.]
 GMAC'S WINDOW TO BAILOUT The Federal Reserve has granted a request by GMAC, the financing arm of General Motors, to become a bank holding company, allowing it to petition for money from the government's $700 billion rescue program. [B1.]
 THE MADOFF FALLOUT As the investigation into Bernard L. Madoff's money management business intensifies, a court-appointed trustee and the investment bank Lazard are trying to engineer a sale of the trading unit, which was once the heart of Mr. Madoff's operations. [B1.]
 A county prosecutor in New York has suspended his investigation of an accountant who audited the books of Mr. Madoff, leaving the investigation to the United States attorney in Manhattan. [B5.]
 PRIVATE JETS LOSE LUSTER Seven months ago, hundreds of megamillionaires were jockeying to buy a $60 million Gulfstream 650. That was another era, however, before the credit crisis and before billions in wealth was lost. [B1.]
 TRIBUNE BANKRUPTCY The Tribune Company asked a judge for approval to pay prebankruptcy and future contributions to union pension plans. [B7.]
 BAKING ALTAR BREAD The Cavanagh Company's business is seemingly recession-proof. The company, in Rhode Island, makes about 80 percent of the altar bread used by the Catholic, Episcopal, Lutheran and Southern Baptist churches in the United States. [B1.]
 HEDGE FUNDS 101 A handful of business schools in the New York area offer a course in hedge fund administration and operations. At Yale, Leon M. Metzger, a pioneer in hedge fund circles, grounds his class in current events and practical application of theory. [B3.]
 RELIEF IN GAS PRICES The sharp drop in gasoline prices helped lift real spending in November, even as personal income slipped and job losses mounted, government reports show. Gasoline prices have dropped to $1.66 a gallon from their July peak of $4.11. [B3.]
 JAPAN'S CARMAKERS STRUGGLEToyota Motor reported that its global vehicle sales plunged 21.8 percent in November, the biggest drop in eight years, and Nissan said its worldwide sales sank 19.8 percent. [B2.]
 RUSSIAN FAITH AND REPORTING After 70 years of state-imposed atheism and then 20 ensuing years of tumult and change, Russians have increasingly embraced their Orthodox roots. Now, hundreds of newspapers, magazines and newsletters cover the world's largest Orthodox church. [B8.]
 TECH HELP ONLINE Instead of getting on the phone when technology gets buggy, try the Web. With the Internet, there is no waiting on hold, and hundreds of people are sharing their experience and wisdom, often free. [B6.]
 TIMES MAY SELL STAKE IN TEAM The New York Times Company is trying to sell its stake in the Boston Red Sox baseball team, seeking to raise cash and shield its newspaper franchise from rapidly falling revenue, a person briefed on the plans said. [B2.]
 VERIZON WINS SUIT Verizon Communications, the telecommunications company, has been awarded $33.2 million in a lawsuit against an Internet services company that it claimed had registered hundreds of domain names with Verizon trademarks to confuse consumers. [B7.]
 PUBLIC OFFERING FriendFinder Networks, which operates a group of sex-oriented social networking sites and owns Penthouse magazine and related assets, is trying to sell up to $460 million in stock to help it pay down debt. [B7.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); RETAILERS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); SKIING (69%); WEATHER (67%); PETITIONS (65%); JUDGES (64%); PRICE CHANGES (64%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (63%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); RELIGION (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (84%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008



915 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Once-Hot Market for Corporate Jets Stalls

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
Maybe General Motors should throw in a fleet of Cadillacs.
 The automaker is dumping its corporate jets into what some participants say is the worst market they have ever seen. 
 Just seven months ago, hundreds of mega-millionaires, including Ralph Lauren and David Geffen, were elbowing one another in the lineup to buy a $60 million Gulfstream G650, which was not expected to hit runways until 2012.
 It did not matter that $500,000 had to be wired to Gulfstream's account at a Midwest branch of JPMorgan Chase at exactly 12:01 a.m. on April 15, or that bidders who secured a place in the waiting line could not sell their rights if they changed their minds, according to one bidder. 
 Some eager moguls even tried to improve their chances of getting a jet quicker by opening accounts at Chase's Midwest office. Among high-ticket status symbols, ''me and my brand new jet'' was it. 
 But that was another era -- before the credit crisis and before billions of dollars in corporate and individual wealth were lost. 
 ''The jet market stinks,'' said Richard Santulli, the chief executive of Netjets, the private jet company owned by Berkshire Hathaway, the holding company led by Warren E. Buffett.
 To control costs, companies including Citigroup and Time Warner are selling their jets. Alcatel-Lucent has allowed leases on two jets to expire without renewing them and has put its third jet up for sale. 
 And the public relations fiasco that engulfed the chief executives of Detroit's automakers when they flew to Washington on company planes to seek a government bailout has underscored how inappropriate such travel can seem in this recession. 
 General Motors, which leases seven planes, put the majority of them on the market before the government said it must do so as a condition of government assistance. The automaker has also closed its air transportation services unit, which had 49 employees. 
 ''We could not justify an in-house aircraft operation,'' a G.M. spokesman, Tom Wilkinson, said. ''We are negotiating to transfer the remaining planes to another operator. Ford too has shut down its flight department.'' 
 Jet brokers, who normally have a worldwide clientele, say the market has constricted abroad in recent months as well.
 ''Our inventory is up dramatically, and demand is way down,'' said Josh Messinger, of J. Messinger Corporate Jet Sales, a jet broker. ''The decline is particularly pronounced for those who bought more recently because prices had soared so much.''
 ''I spent a week in Dubai, and the front page of the paper there had articles every day about their economy having issues due to real estate issues,'' he said. 
 Mr. Santulli said that the Russians had been big buyers of jets. 
 ''But the fall of the Russian stock market has had a huge impact,'' he said. ''The Indian stock market stinks, and the dollar has gotten stronger, which hurts airplane sales.''
 Because jets are priced in dollars, they become more expensive for foreigners as the dollar gets stronger.
 Among jets, the large-cabin, long-range segment of the market is suffering the most, said Bill Quinn, director of aircraft sales and acquisitions at Cerretani Aviation, based in Boulder, Colo. That includes planes from Gulfstream, Bombardier and Falcon. 
 Carrying costs are high. A Gulfstream G550 costs about $47 million. Though expenses can vary by state, one mogul's business manager estimated that annual costs run about $1.3 million, including $500,000 for property tax and $400,000 for pilots and stewards. Typical operating costs are more than $2,000 an hour in the air, he said. 
 The corporate side of the business is particularly vulnerable because of public scrutiny. ''They are not going to do employee layoffs and keep the jets,'' said Mary Hevener, a tax adviser who specializes in executive compensation at Morgan Lewis & Bockius. 
 Besides, Congress stripped away the deductibility of personal travel for executives in 2004 by allowing companies to deduct from taxes only the rough amount of a first-class ticket, far less than private jet travel costs. 
 Corporate chiefs concerned about public scrutiny are more inclined to look for alternatives than to return to the airlines. Some are examining whether they should take delivery of planes already ordered. One company had been looking to upgrade its two planes. ''Now they are weighing whether or not to buy new planes or keep what they have,'' Mr. Quinn said. 
 Some are downsizing. ''Some of these guys just move the deck chairs around,'' he said. ''They get rid of the big planes and go to fractional ownership, or they go to charter, or they come back into the marketplace with a leased plane,'' he said.
 But every part of the private jet industry has been affected. Netjets lets people buy a fractional ownership in planes, and it sells Marquis jet cards that give customers access to the fleet in 25-hour increments. Those businesses, too, are seeing a slowdown. 
 ''People have lost a lot of money, and are careful about how they spend it,'' Mr. Santulli said. 
 ''I have never seen it like this,'' said Mike Silvestri, the chief executive of Flight Options, which sells shares in jets as well as plans that cover a fixed number of hours a year of private jet use. ''Customers are just not flying as much.'' Some customers are stretching out the hours bought for a single year over a longer period. 
 Flight Options has laid off 134 people, including 104 pilots, and hopes it will be able to bring them back.
 Mr. Santulli said that the jet market usually picks up three months after the stock market has reached a bottom. There is no indication of an uptick yet. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A plane owned by Netjets, a fractional leasing service, parked at Teterboro Airport, in New Jersey. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
Planes owned by the Netjets leasing service waited on the tarmac in a snowstorm at Teterboro Airport in New Jersey last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A few months ago, there was a waiting list to buy the Gulfstream G650, above. Now, the demand for private jets is low. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GULFSTREAM) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); BAILOUTS (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); HOLDING COMPANIES (71%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (67%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); NETJETS INC (55%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (84%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); ALU (PAR) (67%); ALU (NYSE) (67%); ALU (BIT) (67%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BRK.B (NYSE) (55%); BRK.A (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (67%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (67%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (55%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (55%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (55%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (84%); DAVID GEFFEN (57%); RALPH LAUREN (57%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); MIDWEST USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008



916 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE RECKONING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3199 words

HEADLINE: Once Trusted Mortgage Pioneers, Now Scrutinized

BYLINE: By MICHAEL MOSS and GERALDINE FABRIKANT; Renee Feltz contributed reporting and research.

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
''We are team-oriented, highly ethical, extremely competitive, profit-oriented, risk-averse, consumer-focused, and we try as much as possible to squeeze out any ego. Hubris is the beginning of the end.''
-- Herbert Sandler, June 2005
SAN FRANCISCO -- Herbert Sandler, the founder of the Center for Responsible Lending, is standing in his bayfront office watching a DVD that trains brokers to pitch mortgages by extolling the glories of the real estate boom.
The video reeks of hucksterism, and it infuriates Mr. Sandler.
''I would not have approved that!'' he declares. ''I don't think we should be selling our loans based on home prices continuing to go up.'' 
But the DVD was produced in 2005 by a mortgage lender that Mr. Sandler and his wife, Marion, ran at the time: World Savings Bank. And the video was a small part of a broad and aggressive effort by their company to market risky loans at the height of the housing bubble.
The Sandlers long viewed themselves -- and were viewed by many others -- as the mortgage industry's model citizens. Now they too have been swept into the maelstrom surrounding who is to blame for the housing bust and the growing number of home foreclosures.
Once invited by Congress to testify about good lending practices, the Sandlers were recently parodied on ''Saturday Night Live'' as greedy bankers who handily sold their bank -- and pocketed $2.3 billion in shares and cash -- in 2006 before many of their loans began to sour.
Last month, the United States attorney's office in San Francisco announced dual inquiries into whether World Savings engaged in predatory lending practices or misled investors about its financial well-being. And the bank has been sued by numerous borrowers who claim they were misled into taking out mortgages they could not afford.
At the center of the controversy is an exotic but popular mortgage the Sandlers pioneered that helped generate billions of dollars of revenue at their bank.
Known as an option ARM -- and named ''Pick-A-Pay'' by World Savings -- it is now seen by an array of housing analysts and regulators as the Typhoid Mary of the mortgage industry.
Pick-A-Pay allowed homeowners to make monthly mortgage payments that were so small they did not cover their interest charges. That meant the total principal owed would actually grow over time, not shrink as is normally the case.
Now held by an estimated two million homeowners, the option adjustable rate mortgage will be at the forefront of a further wave of homeowner distress that could greatly delay or even derail an economic recovery, mortgage industry analysts say.
The Wachovia Corporation, which bought the Sandlers' bank two years ago, was so battered by the souring portfolio of World Savings that it began writing off losses now projected at tens of billions of dollars and eventually stopped offering option ARMs.
Through it all, the Sandlers have maintained they did nothing wrong beyond misjudging the real estate bubble.
''I didn't mislead anybody, and to the best of my knowledge, our company didn't, though there may have been an isolated case here and there,'' Mr. Sandler said. ''If home prices hadn't declined by 50 percent, nobody would be raising these questions.''
Mr. Sandler also finds it incredible that borrowers feel victimized by Pick-A-Pay. ''All of a sudden their home is worth half of what it was, and they say they didn't know.''
Yet the Sandlers embraced practices like the use of independent brokers who used questionable methods to reel in borrowers. These and other practices, critics contend, undermined the conservative lending practices that the Sandlers built their reputations upon.
''This product is the most destructive financial weapon ever deployed against the American middle class,'' said William J. Purdy III, a housing lawyer in California who is representing elderly World Savings customers struggling to repay their loans. ''People who have this loan are now trapped, and they can't get another loan.''
The Birth of Pick-A-Pay
Marion Sandler, now 78, was a Wall Street analyst in the early 1960s when she and her husband decided to buy a bank that took only savings deposits and made mortgage loans -- a thrift, or savings and loan, in banking shorthand -- and run it themselves.
Mr. Sandler, now 77, was a lawyer in Manhattan who grew up poor on the Lower East Side, the son of a compulsive gambler whose earnings were consumed by loan sharks.
The Sandlers searched for a thrift in the sizzling California market and paid $3.8 million in 1963 for an Oakland enterprise called Golden West Savings and Loan Association, which later became the parent company of World Savings. It had a main office and one branch.
When Reagan era deregulation arrived, the Sandlers and two other competitors were able to market option ARMs for the first time in 1981. Before that, lawmakers balked at the loan because of its potential peril to borrowers.
World Savings initially attracted borrowers whose incomes fluctuated, like professionals with big year-end bonuses. In the recent housing boom, when World Savings started calling the loan Pick-A-Pay, they began marketing it to a much broader audience, including people with financial troubles, like deeply indebted blue-collar workers.
As the entire thrift industry soared after deregulation, the Sandlers' business also took off. They avoided financial problems by doing things like scrutinizing borrowers' incomes to make sure loans were manageable and performing astute appraisals so the size of a mortgage was in line with the value of a home.
''Our protection was our total underwriting of the loan,'' Mr. Sandler said. ''From scratch.''
When many of the Sandlers' competitors in the thrift industry later began collapsing under the weight of bad loans and investments, Congress and the media invited the couple to speak about the proper way to do business.
''The deregulatory situation attracted bums, charlatans, crooks, phonies, con men,'' Mr. Sandler told an ABC News program in 1990.
The Sandlers also held onto World Savings' loans rather than selling them off to Wall Street to be repackaged as securities. They say this made them more alert to risky borrowers than were lenders who sold off their loans.
When foreclosures occurred, World Savings executives would drive to the house to see if they had made mistakes appraising the property or underwriting the loan. ''We called these the van tours,'' Mr. Sandler said. ''And we would say, 'O.K., have we done anything wrong here?' ''
More Philanthropic Work
As the Sandlers' wealth increased, so did their philanthropy. Over the years, they financed scientific research and groups like Human Rights Watch and the American Civil Liberties Union. More recently they founded and financed ProPublica, a nonprofit investigative journalism enterprise that has collaborated with The New York Times on coverage and a news archive. Its 14-member advisory board includes two top New York Times Company editors.
The Sandlers' giving intersected most directly with their business interests in 2002 when they helped create an advocacy group for low-income borrowers called the Center for Responsible Lending.
The center was the successor to a smaller organization in North Carolina, whose director, Martin Eakes, had helped the elderly and minorities avoid predatory banking practices.
''I said, 'Isn't that incredible what he is doing?' '' Mr. Sandler recalled. ''I said to Martin, 'What would it take to do what you do on a national scale?' ''
Mr. Eakes, who became the center's executive director, had also just helped secure a new mortgage lending law in North Carolina that prohibited, among other things, the use of prepayment penalties.
''I hated prepayment penalties,'' Mr. Eakes recalled, noting that such charges make it hard for cash-poor borrowers to refinance a loan for one with more manageable terms.
While Mr. Sandler supported the center's antipredatory goals, he disagreed with Mr. Eakes's position on prepayment penalties and sought to change his mind.
Mr. Sandler acknowledges that some lenders used the penalties to lock borrowers into ''absolutely awful'' loans. But he said his bank used the penalties to fend off unethical brokers who enticed borrowers with low-interest-rate loans that often had hidden fees.
''You have to understand how independent brokers work,'' Mr. Sandler says. ''They are the whores of the world.''
Despite that distaste, World Savings made extensive use of brokers. By 2006, they were generating some 60 percent of its loan business, he acknowledged. He said he was compelled to do so because of brokers were a dominant force in the mortgage industry.
As a check on the representations that brokers made to borrowers, World Savings sought to telephone applicants to ensure that they understood the terms of their loan. These calls reached only about half of the borrowers, however, according to a former World Savings executive. Mr. Sandler did not dispute that point.
Customer complaints that an unethical broker had misrepresented the terms of World Savings loans is at the heart of a lawsuit filed against the bank and others in Alameda County, Calif. The broker was sentenced to a year in prison for misleading at least 90 World Savings borrowers.
Mr. Sandler points out that the company was itself a victim of this broker, that it cooperated fully with authorities, and that it was not charged with any wrongdoing.
Others have also raised questions about how carefully World Savings disclosed lending terms to its borrowers.
In August, a federal judge in South Carolina ruled that World Savings had violated the federal Truth in Lending Act by telling borrowers that choosing to make minimum monthly payments on Pick-A-Pay mortgages might cause their principal to grow -- when in fact it certainly would occur.
Wachovia, which is defending the case, has appealed the ruling. Mr. Sandler said he was not familiar with this lawsuit, but generally, he says, ''Wachovia's legal defense is deficient.''
A Speedy Merger
By 2005, World Savings lending had started to slow, after more than quadrupling since 1998. The next year, Wachovia bought the bank in a hastily arranged deal. The Sandlers say they sold their firm at the top of the market because they were growing older and wanted to devote themselves to philanthropy.
Some current and former Wachovia officials say that the merger was agreed to in days and that it was impossible to conduct a thorough vetting of World Savings' loans. Others say the portfolio was adequately scrutinized.
''Herb and his wife had run a tight ship,'' said Robert Brown, a Wachovia board member. ''There was not a huge concern about it because they had not had any delinquencies and foreclosures.''
Others were less sanguine. The creditworthiness of World Savings borrowers edged down from 2004 to 2006, according to Wachovia's data. Over all, Pick-A-Pay borrowers had credit scores well below the industry average for traditional loans.
''I don't think anyone thought a Pick-A-Pay product was a customer friendly product,'' says a former Wachovia executive who requested anonymity to preserve professional relationships. ''It is easy to mislead them.''
World Savings lending volume dipped again in 2006 shortly after the sale to Wachovia was initiated, according to the company's federal filings.
This prompted World Savings to attract more borrowers by taking a step that some regulators were starting to frown upon, and which the company had been resisting for years: it allowed borrowers to make monthly payments based on an annual interest rate of just 1.5 percent. While World Savings continued to scrutinize borrowers' ability to manage increased payments, the move to rock-bottom rates lured customers whose financial reliability was harder to verify.
Russell W. Kettell, a former chief financial officer of World Savings, says the merger created ''pressure'' for ''a pretty good-sized increase in loan volume.''
Asked if Wachovia ordered World Savings to drop its rate, Mr. Kettell said, ''No, but they wanted volume and wanted growth.''
A swift increase in option ARM lending had prompted federal regulators to weigh tougher controls on lending standards in 2005. Of the $238 billion in option ARM loans made nationally in 2005, World Savings issued about $52 billion, or more than one-fifth of the total.
Susan Schmidt Bies, a governor of the Federal Reserve System until last year, said the surge in volume in ARM lending caught regulators by surprise, and that she regrets not acting more quickly to protect borrowers because she believes that they could not understand the risky nature of option ARMs.
''When you get into people whose mortgage payments are taking half of their cash flow, they are in over their heads, and these loans should not have been sold to this customer base,'' she said. ''This makes me sick when I see this happening.''
In March 2006, two months before the Wachovia deal, Mr. Sandler wrote regulators and objected to several aspects of the new rules, including the regulator's conclusion that option ARMS ''were untested in a stress environment.''
He argued in the letter that World Savings had few loan losses in the recession of the early 1990s. Then again, the current financial crisis is far more severe than what occurred then -- far more severe than anything the country has faced since the Great Depression.
By the third quarter of this year, Wachovia was projecting $26.1 billion of losses on a World Savings loan portfolio worth a total of about $124 billion. About 6.2 percent of the Pick-A-Pay loans were more than 90 days late, it said, compared with an industry average of 8 percent on option ARMs and 1 percent on Wachovia's traditional loans.
Wells Fargo, which is now buying Wachovia, is more pessimistic: it expects losses of $36 billion on the loans unless efforts to stem foreclosures help rescue part of the portfolio. The losses caused analysts and others to reassess the Sandlers' legacy.
After the ''Saturday Night Live'' skit, Paul Steiger, the former executive editor of The Wall Street Journal and the editor in chief of ProPublica, was among those who wrote to the show's producer, Lorne Michaels, saying the Sandlers had been unfairly vilified. Mr. Michaels apologized for the skit (which suggested that the Sandlers ''should be shot'') and removed it from NBC's Web site.
Mr. Sandler says Wachovia did not work hard enough to help struggling borrowers, and that his loans became scapegoats for other problems at Wachovia. He remains confident that losses on its loans will not reach Wells Fargo's projections.
He says World Savings was hit especially hard because it had made so many loans in volatile markets like inland California, but he disputes homeowner assertions that his option ARMs are at fault.
''We have not been able to identify one delinquency, much less a foreclosure, that is due to the product,'' Mr. Sandler said, adding that ''if home prices had not dropped, you wouldn't see'' a single article.
Over all, analysts expect the option ARM fallout to be brutal. Fitch Ratings, a leading credit rating agency, recently reported that payments on nearly half of the $200 billion worth of option ARMs it tracks will jump 63 percent in the next two years -- causing mortgage delinquencies to rise sharply.
Mr. Sandler says that his loans are not in the pool that will become distressed in the next few years; he says they reset at a later date. He adds that were he not sure that the market would recover he would have sold his Wachovia stock at the time of the takeover. His charity has sold off much of its Wachovia stock, but he said he and his wife retain a substantial portion of their personal holdings.
Still, the Sandlers have their detractors.
''As the largest and most respected regulated institution providing option ARMs, I hold the Sandlers responsible because a large percentage of home borrowers -- but not all -- should have been advised that it was in their best interest to have a fixed-rate mortgage,'' said Robert Gnaizda, general counsel for the Greenlining Institute, a homeowner advocacy group. ''I believe that financial institutions have a quasi-fiduciary responsibility not to mislead the borrower.''
Mr. Sandler insists that World Savings prided itself on ethical conduct and that untoward behavior was never tolerated. ''We were also a family, and you expected people to live their personal and business lives in a particular way,'' he said.
Correction: January 6, 2009, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A headline on Dec. 25 with an article about Herbert and Marion Sandler, bankers and philanthropists whose World Savings Bank originated a type of adjustable-rate mortgage called Pick-a-Pay that has led to many foreclosures as the real estate market and the economy collapsed, described incorrectly the consequences to the Sandlers of the criminal and legal investigations of the practices of the bank, which they sold to Wachovia in 2006. As the article noted, the Sandlers were once trusted mortgage pioneers and now face scrutiny, but they are not ''pariahs.''
Correction: January 16, 2009, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Dec. 25 about Herbert and Marion Sandler, bankers and philanthropists whose World Savings Bank pioneered a type of adjustable-rate mortgage called the Option ARM, referred imprecisely to their discussions on prepayment penalties with Martin Eakes, the chief executive officer of the Center for Responsible Lending, which the Sandlers helped found in 2002. During the housing boom, they were among those who persuaded Mr. Eakes of the acceptability of some proposed state regulations that would strictly limit, though not ban, prepayment penalties on the small fraction of prime mortgages that had them, including those from World Savings. Mr. Eakes and the Center for Responsible Lending have continued to oppose prepayment penalties generally, on both prime and sub-prime mortgages; Mr. Eakes did not ''drop his opposition.''
Correction: June 11, 2009, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Dec. 25, 2008, about Herbert and Marion Sandler, whose World Savings Bank marketed adjustable-rate mortgages called option ARMs, referred imprecisely to a decision after the bank's sale to Wachovia was initiated in 2006 to get more customers for such mortgages by lowering to 1 percent the interest rate borrowers would have to pay. World Savings reduced the rate then from 2.85 percent to 1.5 percent, but it was Wachovia that lowered the rate to 1 percent, in 2007, according to data the Sandlers provided after the article was published.
The article also gave insufficient context for comments by Susan Schmidt Bies, a former Federal Reserve System governor, regretting that federal regulators had not imposed tougher controls on lending standards for option ARMs before the collapse in the real estate market that led to bank losses, foreclosures and recession. She was discussing option ARM lenders generally, not World Savings specifically.
These corrections were delayed by research and consideration at The Times.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CHANGING HANDS: Marion Sandler, left, and Herbert Sandler, talked with Maryellen Herringer, a Wachovia board member, in 2006. The Wachovia Corporation bought the Sandlers' bank that year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCIO JOSE SANCHEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 GOLDEN TIMES: Herbert and Marion Sandler outside the Golden West Savings and Loan in 1969. Golden became World Savings' parent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD A. WRIGHT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A24) GRAPHIC: OPTION ARM'S: Option ARMs are a type of adjustable-rate mortgage, pioneered by World Savings, that let buyers choose among various payment options. Because these mortgages can tempt buyers by offering low initial rates that can suddenly rise after a few years, they are now largely faulted for abetting the mortgage crisis. Few option ARMs are currently being offered, although they make up about 7 percent of outstanding mortgages. (Source: Inside Mortgage Finance) (pg.A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); CREDIT REGULATION (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PREDATORY LENDING (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); FORECLOSURE (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (75%); HOUSING BUBBLE (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); BUSINESS TORTS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); LITIGATION (63%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (85%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: HERB SANDLER (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2013



917 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Low Cost Of Energy Lifts Stocks In Asia

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Asian stocks rose on Thursday and early Friday, while shares in the Persian Gulf, Russia and China retreated. Dubai's benchmark index fell for a seventh day on concern that economic growth would slow. 
 Japanese shipping companies and electronics makers led gains in Asia on speculation falling oil prices would ease fuel costs and encourage consumers to spend more.
 The Nikkei 225-stock average rose nearly 1 percent in Tokyo on Friday morning as investors went bargain hunting. On Thursday, the Nikkei 225 climbed 1 percent, to close at 8,599.50.
 Financial markets in Australia, Hong Kong, New Zealand and the Philippines were closed Friday. 
 ''Cheaper oil will allow Americans to spend more on discretionary items,'' said Yoshinori Nagano, a senior strategist at Daiwa Asset Management, which manages about $96 billion in Tokyo. 
 ''Higher fuel costs have eaten into company profit, and with crude falling by this degree, we'll probably see the opposite effect next year.''
 The Micex index in Russia fell 2.7 percent on Thursday, to 627.78, after sinking 2.4 percent on Wednesday. The RTS Index fell 1.8 percent, to 655.91, extending its drop this year to 71 percent.
 Lukoil declined 3.1 percent, to 1001.05 rubles, while Surgutneftegaz lost 4.5 percent, to 17.246 rubles. 
 The Dubai Financial Market general index dropped 1.4 percent, to 1,587.08, extending the week's slide to 12 percent.
 ''There isn't much trading going on as most investors are already on holiday,'' Juichi Wako, a strategist at Nomura Securities, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.
 Crude oil rose in electronic trading Thursday for the first time in three days in New York as investors bought contracts after prices fell more than 30 percent this month. Crude oil for February delivery gained as much as 89 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $36.24 a barrel in orders placed with the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 The contract fell $3.63, or 9.3 percent, to $35.35 a barrel on Wednesday after a United States government report showed a bigger-than-expected increase in supplies of gasoline and distillate fuel, which includes heating oil and diesel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); GASOLINE (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (75%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (75%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); DIESEL FUEL (72%); INTERVIEWS (64%)

COMPANY: DAIWA ASSET MANAGEMENT CO LTD (56%); OAO LUKOIL (55%); BLOOMBERG LP (53%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%)

TICKER: LKOH (RTS) (55%); LKOD (LSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%) INDIAN OCEAN (92%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); GULF STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (91%); JAPAN (91%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); HONG KONG (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); PHILIPPINES (74%); AUSTRALIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008



918 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: The Urban Pirate Life: Cold, Grubby and Dark, With Manhattan Sunsets

BYLINE: By RAVI SOMAIYA

 BODY:
The residence is 6,000 square feet across four floors, with 15-foot ceilings. From a roof deck the size of a tennis court, there is an unbroken view of the Manhattan skyline. The main room is so big it even has a swing -- perfect for the frequent all-night parties held there, about which there are no neighbors to complain. Best of all, one can live rent free in exchange for helping to keep the place up.
 But there is no insulation and the heating is patchy, so its five residents often see their breath indoors and must sleep under piles of blankets. The power from noisy diesel generators is intermittent and there is no mail delivery. The shower does not work and the toilets flush only if someone hauls a bucket of water from over the side and throws it in.
 This particular residence once served as a 650-passenger ferry shuttling people between Martha's Vineyard and New Bedford, Mass., for $17 round-trip. Since March 2007, the ship, now moored in a spot about a 10-minute boat ride from Midtown, has become home for a small group of secretive and resourceful people looking for an inexpensive, unorthodox place to stay. 
 While there had been a gangway, boarding the 143-foot vessel now requires slipping through a hole in a fence and leaping onto a back deck, with the risk of plunging into icy, polluted waters. 
 ''One of my friends asked if she could wear heels, and I had to say no,'' recalled Martina Mrongovius, 28, a holographic artist who is the only female resident. ''Not unless you want to go swimming. You cannot tromp around a boat in high heels.''
 The ship is owned by a 29-year-old real estate investor named Jonathan, who spoke on the condition that his last name not be published and the precise location of the ship and its name not be mentioned because its status is legally murky. Jonathan, who lives on the ship, said it is registered as required, but, tied up to some steel pegs embedded in a concrete wall, it does not pay docking fees to a private marina or the city. He said he found the ferry on yachtworld.com and bought it in 2007 for a price he would not disclose except to say, ''All of my friends spend more on their tiny studio apartments than I do on this.'' 
 Originally, Jonathan hired workers to remove benches, with dreams of turning the ferry into a proper residence or a floating playground, complete with helipad, and of mooring it in a more proper location. But those plans were scrapped as the economy soured this summer. The ship's five residents have a Christmas tree, a full-size refrigerator and even a drum set on the ship, but generally brush their teeth and use the toilets at local cafes and shower at friends' apartments. 
 Bobbing along next to the ship is a small sailboat and a motorboat that they use for jaunts into the city or to pick up friends for parties. They keep an old van in a nearby parking garage to pick up assorted items -- including five couches -- that people have given away on Craigslist. Using a Sprint wireless card, they shop on eBay and Craigslist for things like a generator ($2,000) and a wood stove ($240). 
 ''It's not some Donald Trump yacht,'' Jonathan said. ''Everything is just a pain,'' and, he added, ''It's really cold.''
 ''But it's a magical, fantastical thing and that's why we're here. You see the sun set behind the Chrysler Building every day. It sounds ridiculous, but you're so in touch with nature.''
 There are about 30 boats legally moored in New York City that have people living aboard year-round, according to the city's Parks and Recreation Department, which administers required licenses and provides most of the available berths; at least 400 more are on a waiting list. 
 Jonathan's ferry would have to pay more than $28,000 per year, in advance, if it could get one of those spots, which doesn't seem likely -- a parks spokesman said 100 feet is the largest boat the city would consider.
 Jonathan sleeps in the captain's quarters, a small cabin littered with power tools and candles. Bruce Beese, who grew up with Jonathan in Montana, moved into the pilot house a few weeks ago, and sleeps next to the ship's wheel on a bed he got free on Craigslist. ''I was a little worried about the possible bedbugs situation, but I think it's good,'' said Mr. Beese, 28, who remodels homes. ''It probably helps that it's freezing in here.''
 Jason Menders, 31, who works in construction and is also from Montana, has lived on the ship since the beginning. ''Summer is better than winter,'' he said. ''But even that gets too hot. And you can smell the sewage from the sewage outflow sometimes.''
 Ben DeVoe, 25, an artist and landscape gardener, left a shared apartment in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, two months ago, cleaning out the lifejackets to bunk in a storage room. 
 His bed is meticulously made next to huge wheels of inch-thick industrial cable that were too heavy to shift. ''I don't know if I can go back to living in an apartment because that's just so ... normal,'' he said. ''This is almost rural. It's like we're camping.''
 Mr. DeVoe has been trying to build a painting studio on the lower deck where his artworks, oil on board, sit propped on the floor next to mechanical detritus and pools of spilled diesel. 
 ''There's always something else that's more important to do,'' he said, explaining why it was taking so long to set up the studio. ''I had to fix a generator today, and I've never worked on one in my life.''
 Ms. Mrongovius, originally from Melbourne, Australia, has taken over the very front end of the ship, hanging a thick, floor-to-ceiling red curtain to make a room and requiring visitors to ring a bell before entering. ''Any tools, dirty socks, used food containers or drink bottles that have been spiked with alcohol that get left in here are ejected into little piles outside the curtain,'' she said. 
 Ms. Mrongovius said she manages to shower every day, carrying henna and coconut shampoo, a toothbrush and a change of clothes with her on daily ventures onto land in case she should come across an unoccupied shower.
 She was introduced to the ferry when a friend asked her to run the motorboat back and forth to shore for a party, and two months later she left behind her residence in Queens. ''I realized how much the boys here needed someone perhaps interested in hot food and a feminine touch,'' she said. ''It's currently like 'Mad Max' except we don't have shotguns.''
 The five residents are looking forward to summer, when they plan to fire up the ferry's two Cummins diesel engines, which can propel it forward at about 14 miles an hour. They looked into a trip to Bermuda but, learning that it required $40,000 in fuel, made more modest plans.
 ''We're going to take this thing up the Long Island Sound and drop the anchor next to some little island somewhere and just hang out,'' Jonathan said. ''We'll still be sitting there with our Internet connections and working and living on the ship. But when you get that urge to go run and dive off the balcony, you will just be able to do it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A ferry that once shuttled passengers to Martha's Vineyard is now moored in New York City, where it is home to four men and a woman. The residents often hold all-night parties on deck, but have no close neighbors to complain about noise. Below, a friend napped in the pilot house as the sun set behind Manhattan.
 Jonathan, the owner, says the boat is registered, but he does not pay mooring fees. His cabin door, below left, indicates who's in charge. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A33) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MARINAS (72%); CHRISTMAS (71%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (68%); HARBORS & PORTS (66%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (66%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (92%); NEW BEDFORD, MA, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008



919 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 6035 words

HEADLINE: Museum and Gallery Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. Hours vary during the holiday season; please confirm with the gallery or museum. 
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THE SEDUCTION OF LIGHT,' through March 29. Comparisons may be invidious, but they can also be illuminating. Consider this small, tightly focused exhibition of portraits by the 19th-century American folk artist Ammi Phillips and paintings by the 20th-century Abstract Expressionist Mark Rothko. The presentation reveals parallel ways of dealing with surface, color and light. It also reveals two painters who were, each in his own pragmatic yet metaphysically resonant way, distinctly American artists. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson) 
 ASIA SOCIETY AND MUSEUM: 'ART AND CHINA'S REVOLUTION,' through Jan. 11. The splashy party that was the 2008 Olympics is yesterday's news, but one-party rule in China remains. New China is still, in significant ways, Old China. The obvious question is: what comes next? To help answer it, Asia Society asks a different, equally timely post-Olympics question: what came before? This exhibition of paintings, drawings, posters and Maoist souvenirs produced in the years leading up to and during the Cultural Revolution gives complicated answers. It lays out the conflicted loyalties that have shaped contemporary China, and finds them in the work of artists who anticipated the current art boom and are part of it. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org. (Holland Cotter)
 * ASIA SOCIETY AND MUSEUM: 'TRACES OF THE CALLIGRAPHER: ISLAMIC CALLIGRAPHY IN PRACTICE, CIRCA 1600-1900,' AND 'WRITING THE WORD OF GOD: CALLIGRAPHY AND THE QUR'AN,' through Feb. 8. These side-by-side exhibitions, perfect in size and carefully thought out, approach Islamic calligraphy from two perspectives. The first show is basically a manual in techniques of fine penmanship and luxury book-making, illustrated by superb examples of tools of the trade and finished products. The second is an array of hand-written Koran pages for total-immersion contemplation. Gorgeous. (See above.) (Cotter)
 BARD GRADUATE CENTER: 'ENGLISH EMBROIDERY FROM THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART, 1580-1700,' through April 12. At once revelatory and great fun, this exhibition examines one of the world's most beloved and ancient art forms/crafts/hobbies during one of its golden ages, a time that included mind-boggling turmoil. Given the beheadings, regime changes and warring ethnic and religious factions -- outlined in the show's exemplary catalog -- it is a miracle that anybody had time for anything, much less great needlework. But it was a leading indicator of wealth and status, a means of decoration, a form of moral instruction and a sign of wifely devotion. Glass beads, pearls, raised work, applique and striped ribbons mix with an intimidating array of stitches for effects that are never less than stunning. Bard Graduate Center for Studies in the Decorative Arts, Design and Culture, 18 West 86th Street, (212) 501-3000, bgc.bard.edu. (Roberta Smith)
 BRONX MUSEUM OF THE ARTS: 'STREET ART STREET LIFE: FROM THE 1950S TO NOW,' through Jan. 25. If to you ''street life'' means noise-lights-action, you'll find this show a surprise. With its immaculate, stripped-down installation, the exhibition is clearly devoted not to recreating the feel of art on the street, but to recording it, from Robert Frank's unvarnished photographic views of post-World War II America to digital montages by Fatimah Tuggar uniting today's streets of New York and Lagos, Nigeria. 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, (718) 681-6000, bronxmuseum.org. (Cotter)
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'GILBERT & GEORGE,' through Jan. 11. Dynamic duo, gruesome twosome or just plain geeks in ties and tweeds, the British artists Gilbert & George don't seem to care what you call them as long as you pay attention, which you couldn't avoid doing if you tried in their suffocating and disordered wraparound survey at the Brooklyn Museum. In no particular sequence, we see the shadowy early black-and-white photographic pieces they did while living in a falling-down section of London in the 1970s, and the huge Pop colored murals filled with flowers and crowds of dishy young men, which decrease in number during the most devastating years of the AIDS epidemic. The newest work in the show, from 2005 and 2006, is crazy, end-of-time stuff. Terrorism and religious fundamentalism are the themes, and Gilbert and George themselves, partners in art as in life, are in the picture, mugging, moralizing, unembarrassed and all but unendurable, in art that's right for right now. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'JESPER JUST: ROMANTIC DELUSIONS,' through Jan. 4. An enchanting show of four short films exhibits most of the qualities for which Mr. Just has become known since completing his studies at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts in 2003. Melodramatic but never campy or over the top and made with Hollywood-quality production values, his brief musicals explore vulnerable, ordinarily well-armored zones of the masculine psyche, like grief, same-sex love, Oedipal conflict and spiritual desire. The singing is wonderful. (See above.) (Johnson)
 COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'HOUSE PROUD: 19TH-CENTURY WATERCOLOR INTERIORS FROM THE THAW COLLECTION,' through Jan. 25. The 70 or so jewel-like renderings of rooms and their furnishings here are delightful, mordantly signifying artifacts. They track the domestic effects of exoticism and nostalgia (chinoiserie, Gothic Revival); uncover glimmers of modernity (Biedermeier, smaller rooms); and witness the birth of the contemporary genre known as shelter porn. Accompanied by relevant examples of furniture, decorative objects and books, they also reveal that rooms seen whole, with light and space as well as decor carefully depicted, are among painting's most appealing subjects. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Smith)
 * FRICK COLLECTION: 'ANDREA RICCIO: RENAISSANCE MASTER OF BRONZE,' through Jan. 18. Scholars say that Andrea Riccio was one of the greatest sculptors of the Italian Renaissance. Cast in dark bronze and resembling Roman antiquities, Riccio's small-scale statuettes, reliefs and oil lamps seem unremarkably modest at first. But let your eyes adjust to the formal subtlety, expressive urgency and almost supernatural aliveness of his art and you will fall in love. Sculpture does not get much better than this. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Johnson)
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM:
 'THEANYSPACEWHATEVER,' through Jan. 7. The innately sculptural Guggenheim mounts the first major exhibition in this country about relational aesthetics -- probably the most radical art to emerge in the 1990s -- and comes up looking, well, remarkably empty, which is also extraordinarily beautiful in its own Wright. The more or less interactive works by 10 artists invite you to experience in a new way time, space, the art-viewing world and the museum itself. Even if you never want to see the museum going this far out again, the Guggenheim must be credited for bringing the latest art remarkably intact to a larger public. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith) 
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'CATHERINE OPIE: AMERICAN PHOTOGRAPHER,' through Jan. 7. Catherine Opie is many artists in one. Best known in the 1990s for her striking portraits of gay, lesbian and transgendered men and women drawn from a circle of friends and intimates, she is also a photographer of landscapes, cityscapes, architecture, still lifes and lifestyles. She is an insider and an outsider: a documentarian and a provocateur, a classicist and a maverick; a trekker and a stay-at-home; a lesbian feminist mother who resists the gay mainstream. It's all here in a fine retrospective. (See above.) (Cotter) 
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'AMERICA AND THE TINTYPE,' through Jan. 4. This show about the tintype, an early form of photograph made by exposing a lacquered iron plate to light, includes some 200 examples from the museum's collection. Most of the artists, and subjects, are unidentified. These works form a group portrait of Americans, mostly working- and middle-class, struggling to adapt to the rapidly shifting social and economic conditions during the four decades after the Civil War. The exhibition makes the most of the tintype's range of subject matter and emotion, from postmortem shots to vaudevillian caricatures, freedmen to minstrels. It does not dispute the daguerreotype's superior potentials for artistry but simply asserts that tintypes have been unfairly overlooked because of their ubiquity, affordability and anonymity. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'SUSAN MEISELAS: IN HISTORY,' through Jan. 4. A certain moral quandary runs throughout this fascinatingly problematic exhibition: how do you reconcile the demands of professionalism and those of human compassion? To her credit, Ms. Meiselas -- whose coverage of the Sandinista revolution in Nicaragua in 1978-79 made her one of the world's most celebrated and criticized war correspondents -- does not duck the question. Tension between opportunism and conscience emerges as the show's main interest -- to the point that it trumps its ostensible subjects, which include strippers in traveling carnivals and forensic investigations of Saddam Hussein's campaign against the Kurds in northern Iraq. (See above.) (Johnson)
 THE JEWISH MUSEUM: 'CHAGALL AND THE ARTISTS OF THE RUSSIAN JEWISH THEATER, 1919-1949,' through March 22. A fascinating tale of two vanguard theater companies that flourished in Moscow for a few years after the Bolshevik Revolution of 1917 is told by this big, walk-in scrapbook of a show presenting more than 200 pieces of art and ephemera. Exploring the histories of the Hebrew-speaking Habima theater and the Yiddish-speaking Moscow State Yiddish Theater, the exhibition includes drawings, paintings, photographs, posters, sheet music, costumes and clips from vintage films. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Johnson)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ART AND LOVE IN RENAISSANCE ITALY,' through Feb. 16. With the most cherished of all human emotions as its central theme, this exhibition examines 14th- and 15th-century marriage rituals in Italy in terms of the many sumptuous objects and artworks they generated. The show includes ceramics, paintings, a cradle, wedding portraits and childbirth trays. Its many images mix happy endings and cautionary tales (some of the most gruesome intended for bridal chambers). Profane love is acknowledged with a choice display of erotica. The commodification and adoration of women run on parallel tracks, right up to and including two majestic paintings by Titian. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
 THE MET: 'BEYOND BABYLON: ART, TRADE, AND DIPLOMACY IN THE SECOND MILLENNIUM B.C.,' through March 15. This big, prescient, concentration-taxing exhibition is the latest in the Met's line of investigative archaeological shows, and it is not geared to quick-take viewing. Many of the objects are small and intimate; made to be worn, handled and easily transported. A proliferation of wall texts gives the show the pace of a lavishly illustrated book. Patient viewing is rewarded by a fascinating story of a proto-global world in formation nearly 4,000 years ago. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'CALDER JEWELRY,' through March 1. Concurrent with the Whitney Museum's ''Alexander Calder: The Paris Years,'' this exhibition is the first museum show to focus on that American sculptor's fanciful jewelry. The works in ''Calder Jewelry'' are made of the same materials as his wire sculptures -- mostly brass and steel, with bits of ceramic, wood and glass -- and are just as self-consciously clever. Among the highlights are oversize necklaces with flared and barbed shoulders, pendulous earrings worn by Peggy Guggenheim and the simple spiral of gold wire Calder gave his wife as an engagement ring. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 THE MET: 'CHOIRS OF ANGELS: PAINTING IN ITALIAN CHOIR BOOKS, 1300-1500,' through April 12. The transition from Medieval to Early and High Renaissance painting is told in a new way with a series of small, gemlike images that originally decorated illuminated initials in Italian choir books. The vividly colored scenes turned the initials into little stages, while running the gamut of biblical narratives. (Depictions of martyrdom were big.) They are the work of anonymous monks and of well-known painters like Lorenzo Monaco and Sano di Petri. (See above.) (Smith)
 THE MET: 'THE ESSENTIAL ART OF AFRICAN TEXTILES,' through April 5. This show presents 19th-century African textiles, many lent by the British Museum, alongside relevant contemporary artworks from the Met's collection. One of the most spectacular pairings matches El Anatsui's ''Between Earth and Heaven,'' a recent acquisition, with a kente prestige cloth from Ghana. The Met's 2005 exhibition ''Matisse: The Fabric of Dreams'' hinted that textiles had been undervalued in the Western canon; while the current show may not have the same blockbuster appeal, it goes deeper into the techniques and traditions that make the fabrics so striking and seductive. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 THE MET: 'EARLY BUDDHIST MANUSCRIPT PAINTING: THE PALM-LEAF TRADITION,' through March 22. Practical features like resilience and portability help explain why books written on dried palm leaves were popular with Buddhists in eastern India between the 10th and 13th centuries. But another factor, surely, was the quality of the illustrations that accompanied the texts: exquisite figures of divinities or scenes from the Buddha's life. And few of these are as finely done and pristinely preserved as the examples in this small selection. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'LANDSCAPES CLEAR AND RADIANT: THE ART OF WANG HUI (1632-1717),' through Jan. 4. The Met's first solo show devoted to a Chinese master is gorgeous and revelatory; its focus is the landscape virtuoso Wang Hui, star of the 17th-century Chinese art scene. Wang could do anything and did, synthesizing and transforming disparate strands of almost a millennium of Chinese painting, but also making exact copies of earlier masterpieces. Distinguished by a Mozart-like ease and perfection, his work unsettles Western notions of copy, original and originality. It is aided in this by displays of works by 16 earlier artists dating to the 10th-century -- his mentors, his mentors' mentors and the artists they all revered -- which form a dazzling introduction to Chinese painting in general. (See above.) (Smith)
 THE MET: 'THE PHILIPPE DE MONTEBELLO YEARS: CURATORS CELEBRATE THREE DECADES OF ACQUISITIONS,' through Feb. 1. As the title implies, the show is a tribute to Mr. de Montebello, who is leaving the Met after being director for more than 30 years. For the occasion, curators in 17 of the museum departments have chosen objects in their fields of expertise from the permanent collection. There are marvelous things here, from Chinese scrolls, Greek vessels and Oceanic effigies to Byzantine icons and an 18th-century American pickle-holder. In short, a wonder-cabinet situation. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2009. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'DRAWING BABAR: EARLY DRAFTS AND WATERCOLORS,' through Jan. 4. The first and most brilliant Babar book (''The Story of Babar'') gets its own gallery in which Jean de Brunhoff's familiar story is illustrated by his sketches and drafts -- a room bound to fascinate children and the adults who read to them. Another is devoted to the first Babar book by Jean's son, Laurent (''Babar's Cousin''), who first heard about the elephant in the green suit in bedtime stories. In this compact, elegant exhibition, we don't learn a lot about the reasons for Babar's appeal. Speculation is restrained, and simple demonstration preferred, an approach in keeping with Jean's spare, precise narrative and laconic illustration, in which diverging lines of dots become tears; angled eyebrows signal anger; and the varied curves of an elephant's trunk evoke an inner life. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Edward Rothstein)
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'PROTECTING THE WORD: BOOKBINDINGS OF THE MORGAN,' through March 29. J. P. Morgan collected omnivorously in many areas, but he might have loved books and their bindings above all else. Thus -- the recent name change notwithstanding -- he founded a library, not a museum. This sumptuous exhibition presents 55 of that library's finest bookbinding treasures, including several purchased by Morgan himself. In jeweled metalwork, tooled and mosaic leather and both illuminated and printed volumes dating from the 9th to the 20th centuries, the books and their helpful labels trace the entwined histories of a fascinating art form, the spread of human knowledge (and bibliophilia) and one of the handiest and most civilizing of humanity's inventions. (See above.) (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF ARTS AND DESIGN: 'SECOND LIVES: REMIXING THE ORDINARY,' through April 19. The inaugural show in the Museum of Arts and Design's jewel-box-like building continues its haphazard segue from a concentration on craft to a hipper, more wide-ranging program. Unfortunately, the focus is a strategy that is epidemic in the larger art world: the massing of something small (plastic spoons, ladies pumps, spools of thread, dangling eyeglasses) into something large (a pyramid, a loveseat, a view of the ''Mona Lisa,'' a chandelier). It is Surrealism 101, descended from Meret Oppenheim's beloved and far too influential fur-lined teacup. Basically, you see the thing. You see the things it is made of. Something in the way of a punch line follows. 2 Columbus Circle, (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'PARIS/NEW YORK: DESIGN FASHION CULTURE, 1925-1940,' through Feb. 22. This compact yet kaleidoscopic exhibition celebrates the romance that flourished between New York and Paris in the 1920s and '30s, when French Art Deco was the style, American jazz was the music, and skyscrapers and sumptuous ocean liners were among the symbols of the age. Selected and installed to extract maximum wattage from every juxtaposition, object and image (including many surprisingly effective digital reproductions), it tracks the exchange of goods as much as of ideas, and the roles played by both department stores and museums, knock-offs and originals, businessmen (especially developers) and designers and artists. Most memorably, it clarifies a golden age of design and building, when New York became the world capital of Art Deco architecture. 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY AFRICAN DIASPORAN ARTS: 'I AM A MAN,' through Jan. 18. The words that make up the title of this strong, timely group show were emblazoned on placards carried by striking black workers in Birmingham, Ala., in 1968. But the show turns the original assertion into a question: what does it mean to be an African-American male today? A smart, Pop-style painting by Fahamu Pecou sends up stereotypes of sexual prowess; a video by Lorenzo Steele Jr. looks at prison life from the inside; Jefferson Pinder casts his sights back to the Civil Rights movement's espousal of passive resistance in a video piece that illustrates that ideal in action. The written statements by each artist are well worth reading. 80 Hanson Place, at South Portland Avenue, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0492, mocada.org. (Cotter)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'JOAN MIRO: PAINTING AND ANTI-PAINTING 1927-1937,' through Jan. 12. When, in 1927, Joan Miro said, ''I want to assassinate painting,'' he wasn't saying anything new. What was new was the way he carried out his self-assigned, cut-throat task. And that process is the subject of this invigorating, absorbing and -- Miro would be mortified -- beautiful show. It illustrates, step by step, how he stalked and attacked painting -- zapped its conventions, messed up its history, spoiled its market value -- through distinctive groups of experimental works produced over a decade. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'LOOKING AT MUSIC,' through Jan. 5. This exhibition of about 40 works from the museum's collection emphasizes the experimental nature of both art and music in the late 1960s and early '70s. The lines dividing art, music and film were blurry enough to allow Laurie Anderson, Bruce Nauman and Yoko Ono, among others, to shift from object making to performance and back again. The show, which includes audio recordings and small-press publications alongside more conventional mediums, is accompanied by an extensive film and video program. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'MARLENE DUMAS: MEASURING YOUR OWN GRAVE,' through Feb. 16. In this large midcareer survey, this South-African-born, Amsterdam-based artist comes across as a none-too-daring Neo-Expressionist with a feminist outlook. Throughout, shocking subject matter -- murdered women and children, cringing adolescents, bodies in morgues, grotesque newborns -- adds gravity that the works frequently lack. Ms. Dumas's early Conceptual-based work, isolated in a vitrine at the back of the show, indicates a restless young talent. What follows suggests a complacent premature settling on a style that hasn't developed. (See above.) (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'NEW PHOTOGRAPHY 2008: JOSEPHINE MECKSEPER AND MIKHAEL SUBOTZKY,' through Jan. 5. Josephine Meckseper, a German-born artist in her 40s who was trained at the California Institute of the Arts, makes sleek-looking installations that mix photography and film -- often scenes of political protest -- with consumer objects. The South African artist Mikhael Subotzky, who at 26 is the youngest photographer to have been invited to join the Magnum Group, explores his country's prison system in vivid color and unflinching detail. If Ms. Meckseper finds glossy, consumerist fantasy infiltrating our political consciousness, Mr. Subotzky reminds us that some people don't yet have the luxury of fretting about the commodification of dissent. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'POUR YOUR BODY OUT (7354 CUBIC METERS),' through Feb. 2. This site-specific installation by the Swiss artist Pipilotti Rist is arguably the first project to humanize -- and feminize -- the atrium. Incorporating high-definition video, music and specially designed furniture, it creates a womblike comfort zone in a building full of right angles. Throughout the installation viewers are confronted with Ms. Rist's signature hyper-femininity. Pink is everywhere, from the flowers in the projections to the curtains that wall off the atrium from the upper galleries. In the video quick turns from sensuality to disgust, wide-eyed delight to snarling aggression, keep things interesting. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'VAN GOGH AND THE COLORS OF THE NIGHT,' through Jan. 5. This small, anomalous exhibition is a Van Gogh antiblockbuster with a seemingly counterintuitive theme, given the importance of the brilliant light of southern France to his art. It explores Van Gogh's special relationship with darkness, where his interests in perception, color and symbolism fuse with unexpected intensity. And seeing a manageable number of Van Goghs -- including masterpieces like ''The Potato Eaters,'' ''The Starry Night'' and ''Night Cafe'' -- in intimate galleries is thrilling. (See above.) (Smith)
 NATIONAL ACADEMY MUSEUM: 'GEORGE TOOKER: A RETROSPECTIVE,' through Jan. 4. George Tooker has painted some of the 20th century's most memorable images of angst. With its lost souls haunting the New York underground, ''Subway'' (1950) envisions modernity as a spiritual prison system. The Kafkaesque ''Government Bureau'' (1956) pictures an office of seemingly infinite dimensions, where people wait like penitents at the windows of terminally unresponsive bureaucrats. Both paintings are included in this richly affecting five-decade career retrospective. 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Johnson)
 NEUE GALERIE: 'ALFRED KUBIN: DRAWINGS, 1897-1909,' through Jan. 26. You would never guess that the Viennese artist Alfred Kubin was a contemporary of Gustav Klimt; he is closer in spirit to the Belgian James Ensor and the Norwegian Edvard Munch, visionaries who expressed modernity's spiritual toll and anticipated some of the horrors of the 20th century. Executed in black-and-white pen, ink and spray on heavy paper used for cartography, Kubin's drawings map the shadowy corners of the unconscious. Playing to the art's dark themes, the Neue Galerie's third floor has been made over in the sensationally macabre style of a Tim Burton movie. The walls are painted black and brown; red crushed-velvet curtains hang in the doorways; and Kubin's death mask is displayed in a coffinlike glass case. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Rosenberg)
 NEW MUSEUM: 'LIVE FOREVER: ELIZABETH PEYTON,' through Jan. 11. This lush midcareer survey pays tribute to an artist whose diminutive, irony-free, boldly colored portraits of friends, artists, rock stars and other historic figures, living and dead, have exerted considerable influence over the last 16 years. The reason is a complex, highly effective fusion of the painterly, the personal and the Conceptual, as well as a kind of reverse appropriation, wherein photographs and snapshots are given a new permanence, substance and most of all feeling by being re-engineered into unique art objects. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Smith)
 THE NEW MUSEUM: 'MARY HEILMANN: TO BE SOMEONE,' through Jan. 26. Over the past four decades Ms. Heilmann has been painting with an infectious, unabashedly hedonistic joie de vivre. Working with big brushes and generous quantities of paint, she continues to produce wildly colorful abstractions that riff with irreverent verve on basic elements of Modernist painting: the grid, the monochromatic rectangle, stripes, organic forms, linear webs, spots, checks and drips. This exhilarating retrospective presents works dating from 1967 to the present. (See above.) (Johnson)
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'LEANDRO ERLICH: SWIMMING POOL,' through April 13. From P.S. 1's first-floor hallway you step onto a wooden deck that surrounds a small, fully equipped swimming pool. Glowing lights built into the aqua walls light up watery depths below the gently churning surface. A flight of stairs leads to a lower level and a magical surprise. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)
 STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: BARKLEY L. HENDRICKS: 'BIRTH OF THE COOL,' through March 15. He did not birth the cool -- that was Miles Davis -- but Mr. Hendricks's suave portraits from the 1960s, '70s and early '80s give him the right to use this title for his five-decade retrospective. Mixing realism, abstraction and Pop, Mr. Hendricks's life-size paintings of beautiful black people in extravagantly fashionable outfits captured a period sensibility with uncanny acuity. Today, with portrait painters like Kehinde Wiley, Elizabeth Peyton and Chuck Close enjoying great popularity, Mr. Hendricks's work is back in style. 144 West 125 Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Johnson)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'ALEXANDER CALDER: THE PARIS YEARS, 1926-1933,' through Feb. 15. Is art glorified child's play, extending into adulthood, through a lifetime, picking up ideas and gaining finesse as it goes? That's one way to think of this exhibition, which focuses intently on one artist's child-within embodied in toys, cartoons and wire figures, with the Whitney's famous ''Calder's Circus'' as a centerpiece and a grown-up modernist surprise at the end. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'WILLIAM EGGLESTON: DEMOCRATIC CAMERA,' through Jan. 25. When William Eggleston's color, snapshot-like photographs of his home territory in the American South were shown at the Museum of Modern Art in 1976, critics squawked that the work was vulgar and haphazard. But these pictures quickly became influential classics. And that's how they look in this 40-year retrospective at the Whitney, the artist's first New York museum solo since his seditious debut. The show includes a recently edited version of Mr. Eggleston's cruel, unusual and ultimately revolting video epic ''Stranded in Canton.'' (See above.) (Cotter)
 Galleries: Uptown
 'FRANKENTHALER AT EIGHTY: SIX DECADES'Helen Frankenthaler's longtime gallery is throwing her an 80th-birthday party. With nine large-scale works from the artist's personal collection, covering more than five decades, the show takes the form of a mini-retrospective. (A more substantial museum survey is long overdue.) The earliest work is ''Western Dream,'' a maelstrom of lavender-and-coral stains on unprimed canvas; the newest is ''Warming Trend,'' a near-monochrome field of indigo with fiery undertones. Knoedler & Company, 19 East 70th Street, (212) 794-0550, knoedlergallery.com, through Jan. 10. (Rosenberg)
 'NEIL JENNEY: NEW PAINTINGS' With the works in this beautiful show, his first exhibition of new paintings in New York since 1998, Neil Jenney continues to create idiosyncratic, magic realist landscapes with heavy black frames. Most surprising are two paintings of luminous blue skies with puffy, animal-shaped clouds in them and the word ''Atmosphere'' neatly lettered on each frame. Barbara Mathes Gallery, 22 East 80th Street, (212) 570-4190, bmathesgallery.com, through Jan. 24. (Johnson)
 Galleries: SoHo
 MATT MULLICAN: 'A DRAWING TRANSLATES THE WAY OF THINKING' Drawing for Mr. Mullican is a note-taking tool in a vast program of semiotic research. Much of the material displayed in this intermittently intriguing exhibition of more than 200 drawings, collages, photographs, watercolors and notebooks will mean less to the average viewer than it presumably does to the artist himself. A fascinating video of a Paul McCarthy-style performance suggests that Mr. Mullican is most interesting as a kind of high-brow clown. The Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org, through Feb. 5. (Johnson)
 CHARLOTTE POSENENSKE: 'PROTOTYPES FOR MASS PRODUCTION (1965-1967)' The works in this exhibition -- simple geometric forms made of folded sheet metal and painted in black and primary-colored enamels -- were intended to be mass-produced, sold at cost and displayed in public. Ms. Posenenske quit making art in 1968 when she concluded that it could not make enough of a political difference in the world, but her sculptures still have a bright, Pop Art-like punch. Peter Freeman, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 966-5154, peterfreemaninc.com, through Jan. 10. (Johnson)
 Galleries: Chelsea
 AL HELD An awesome blast of light, color, space and geometry awaits visitors to this exhibition of six paintings dating from 1979 to 1985 by Mr. Held (1928-2005). Rendered in richly saturated and incandescent colors, these expansive, hard-edged pictures of grids, boxes, wheels and serpentine loops, interpenetrating and receding into infinite, Euclidean distances, are like visions of a Neo-Platonist on acid. Paul Kasmin Gallery, 293 10th Avenue, at 27th Street, (212) 563-4474, paulkasmingallery.com, through Jan. 10. (Johnson)
 Out of Town
 BALTIMORE MUSEUM OF ART: 'FRANZ WEST: TO BUILD A HOUSE YOU START WITH THE ROOF: WORK, 1972-2008,' through Jan. 4. This influential Austrian godfather of the lately popular grunge aesthetic has his first major American museum show. The exhibition includes crusty abstractions made of plaster and papier-mache; ribald, anticonsumerist collages; low-tech furniture and light sculptures; and, best of all, big, colorful, abstract works made of welded-together aluminum patches that mischievously subvert the monumental pretensions of conventional public sculpture. Mr. West is ostensibly a populist artist, but he is really a coolly sophisticated hipster. 10 Art Museum Drive, at North Charles and 31st Streets, (443) 573-1700, artbma.org. (Johnson)
 MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS, BOSTON: 'RACHEL WHITEREAD: PLACE (VILLAGE),' through Jan. 25. This exhibition, the centerpiece of the museum's mini-survey devoted to the British sculptor Rachel Whiteread, may strike the artist's admirers as a bizarre and kitschy departure. Viewers who have never seen one of her room-size casts won't really get a sense of her work from this installation, which is making its United States debut. Still, the show, which includes drawings and a few smaller sculptures, reveals the more emotive side of an artist who can come off as somber and humorless. 465 Huntington Avenue, (617) 267-9300, mfa.org. (Rosenberg)
 NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART: 'JAN LIEVENS: A DUTCH MASTER REDISCOVERED,' through Jan. 11. Although not a household name now, Jan Lievens once was famous throughout Northern Europe for his portraits and his religious and history paintings. A child prodigy, he was a friend and colleague of Rembrandt's. Early in their careers, the two painters worked closely together, and many of Lievens's paintings later were misattributed to Rembrandt. Lievens was not Rembrandt's equal, but he had his moments, especially in remarkably precocious paintings that he made as a teenager. National Mall, Fourth and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, (202) 737-4215, nga.gov. (Johnson)
 NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART: 'POMPEII AND THE ROMAN VILLA: ART AND CULTURE AROUND THE BAY OF NAPLES,' through March 22. This show about the opulent lifestyle of the Roman elite before the A.D. 79 eruption of Vesuvius includes recent discoveries on view in the United States for the first time, as well as finds from excavations dating to the mid-18th century. The galleries unfold according to the floor plan of a typical villa, and the installation -- which includes decorative columns, plants and reproductions of mosaics -- works hard to maintain the illusion of classical architecture. The exhibition moves from artifacts reflecting ancient Romans' infatuation with Greek culture to the rediscovery of Pompeii by 18th-century Europeans, suggesting that every culture finds affirmation of its taste and sophistication in a previous golden age. National Mall, Fourth and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, (202) 737-4215, nga.gov. (Rosenberg)
 YALE CENTER FOR BRITISH ART: 'SUN, WIND AND RAIN: THE ART OF DAVID COX,' through Jan. 4. Watercolor was all the rage in early-19th-century England, and one of its most admired practitioners is the subject of this expansive, engaging show. Cox had a particular knack for picturing windy days, and the liveliness of his scenes is reflected in his vigorously realist style. Many of his most affecting pictures show ordinary travelers making their ways toward distant, unseen goals within the picture. Life is a journey. 1080 Chapel Street, New Haven, (877) 274-8278, yale.edu/ycba. (Johnson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (98%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PAINTING (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (86%); RELIGION (86%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (86%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); BOOK REVIEWS (68%); OLYMPICS (67%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (67%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (66%); WAR & CONFLICT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008



920 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: In a Season Haunted by Recession, Discovering New Ways to Celebrate

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA and KEN BELSON; Ralph Blumenthal and Kareem Fahim contributed reporting.

 BODY:
No lamb this year; ham, at 89 cents a pound, was a better deal. There were gifts, yes, but fewer than usual, and only for the children. Maybe clothes this time around instead of a bag of toys. Somehow, the Long Island chill would have to be made as alluring a holiday destination as the isles of the Caribbean.
 It is unsurprising, perhaps, that this is the Christmas of cutbacks, what with neighbors facing foreclosures, relatives being laid off and the endless chatter of a recession like no other. Nearly everyone in New York City, it seemed -- from shoppers in central Brooklyn to churchgoers in the Bronx, people eating (and volunteering) at a Harlem soup kitchen and those heading out of town from Penn Station -- had something they were doing without.
 ''It doesn't feel like Christmas,'' said Christine Enniss, who planned to pare her holiday spread to the essentials: green salad, roast chicken and, maybe, potato salad. 
 But as each family tried to make merry amid the misery, what stayed and went was revealing. Sharon Parker, whose husband recently lost his job as a mechanic, held Christmas dinner for her immediate family of five, rather than playing host to the more than a dozen cousins and friends she usually has over. Susan Strande, an art teacher who lives in the East Village, did her own baking rather than buying fancy tarts and pies. O'Neil Hutchinson, an engineering consultant, visited family in England several weeks ago to avoid the more expensive holiday fares.
 Many tried to avoid sacrificing quantity by scaling back on quality. At Sherry-Lehmann Wine and Spirits on Park Avenue near 59th Street, sales of Nicolas Feuillatte Brut Champagne, at $27.95 a bottle, more than doubled, to 160 cases this month, from last December. But ''all the higher-end stuff is more likely to stay on the shelves,'' said Chris Adams, a partner in the store. 
 Mr. Adams, for his part, went to Saks Fifth Avenue on Christmas Eve to shop for a last-minute gift for his wife, as he always does. But he stayed away from the pricey perfumes, veering instead to the makeup counter to buy creams she might need and would normally pick up for herself.
 Of course, this cutback Christmas can also be seen as the season of the sales. Some took advantage of bargain trips to Las Vegas resorts; others filled shopping bags with merchandise at half price. ''Everything was really cheap,'' said one woman, a bit defensively, as she boarded a train to see family in New Jersey, laden with Bloomingdale's bags that were teeming with red-wrapped gifts.
 For the Lombardo family, Christmas Eve has always been about the Feast of the Seven Fishes, a traditional Italian banquet.
 But with business at the family's pizzeria in Harrison, N.Y., pinched, the Lombardos scaled back. Each of the 18 adults and seven grandchildren was served the seven courses, but the grownups survived on one lobster tail instead of two. The crowd shared a few dozen clams on the half shell instead of 10 dozen or more, the shrimp cocktails were more modest, the linguini had fewer blue crabs, and there was a bit less scungilli. There were fewer Alaskan king crab legs, too.
 ''We're not getting a lot of businessmen taking their clients to lunch,'' Sofia Lombardo, a daughter of one of the founders, said of her family's restaurant, Sofia's Pizzeria. ''They just have slices instead of chicken parmesan.''
 The tug of tough times also led the Lombardos to trim their gift-giving. Last year, the adults traded ''secret Santa'' gifts worth about $75 each. This year, they decided to limit each gift to $30.
 Ms. Lombardo's parents and one of her brothers did away with swapping gifts entirely. ''My family always went to the nines,'' she said. ''Is it weird not opening gifts on Christmas Day? Yes. But the catering business is not where it's been in the last few years.''
 Even with less, there were countless attempts to make Christmas as happy as it has always been. Parents, in particular, took pains to give their children an abundance of gifts, even while watching the price tag. 
 Last year, Veronica Tyms bought 30 presents for cousins, in-laws, friends and their children. This year, she chopped her list in half and fully expected the would-be recipients to do the same. ''We didn't have to talk about it,'' said Ms. Tyms's friend Margaret Gregory, who joined her this week on a bargain-hunting trip to the Target store in the Atlantic Terminal Mall in Brooklyn. ''People just understood.''
 Both women, however, still showered their children with presents. Ms. Gregory ticked off the list for her 18-year-old daughter: ''clothes, movies, perfume, makeup.'' Ms. Tyms bought gifts for her 8-year-old son and more than a dozen other children of friends and relatives. 
 ''My son still believes in Santa Claus,'' she said. ''I'm not ready to change that yet.'' 
 Ed Chin of Greenwich, Conn., who landed at job at China Merchants Bank in September after being out of work for six months, skipped the usual trip to North Carolina to visit his in-laws and to golf, and he canceled his family's traditional Champagne brunch. Rather than expensive gifts for each of their four children, ages 9 to 14, Mr. Chin and his wife, Julie, bought an Xbox video game console for them to share.
 ''Even people in Greenwich have to tighten up,'' Ms. Chin said of her wealthy hometown. ''This is not the time to spend money on this kind of stuff.''
 Dominic Giangrasso, who runs the computer systems at ConEdison Solutions, hooked up a Web camera to his flat-panel television so that his pregnant daughter, who lives in Massachusetts, could watch Christmas dinner at his home in Westchester County rather than spend money on traveling there. 
 The Rev. Jos Kandathikudy, the priest at St. Thomas Syro Malabar Catholic Church in the Bronx, said that last year he walked from the rectory through the neighborhood to admire the fanciful decorations. This year, he said, the streets were mostly dark. 
 ''Businesses and residences both; I think people just want to and need to save money -- everything is reduced,'' he said. ''But this is not the meaning of Christmas. It is not about lights and presents.'' 
 Father Kandathikudy was one of many ministers to preach about how the tough economic times could help people focus on the religious meaning of Christmas. 
 One parishioner at the Church of the Ascension on West 107th Street simply handed over $500 to the Rev. John Duffell last week, saying only that someone needed it more than he did. 
 And at the Church of Saint Raymond on Castle Hill Avenue in the Bronx, one altar girl had trimmed her wish list.
 ''My daughter understood that things were difficult this year,'' said Maria Gonzalez, 40, as she walked into the noon Mass at the church, beaming as her daughter, Jessica Garcia, led the processional. ''She loves music and has worked so hard to practice, so all she wanted was a keyboard. She wants to play music to serve God, and I want to help her in that.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ed Veloz, left, and Christopher Lee volunteered for the first time at the Community Kitchen of West Harlem. At left, Nicky Lombardo and his sister Sofia, whose family scaled back on the traditional Feast of Seven Fishes.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESORTS (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); RESTAURANTS (74%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); DISMISSALS (71%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); RELIGION (55%)

COMPANY: CENTRE VINICOLE-CHAMPAGNE NICOLAS FEUILLATTE (53%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312130 WINERIES (53%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (53%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (52%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); ENGLAND (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008



921 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Recruiters Look Abroad for Diversity and Expertise

BYLINE: By JIMMY WANG; Wang Yao contributed research.

DATELINE: NEW YORK 

 BODY:
Mary Yu pitches hard to the recruiter sitting in front of her. ''I've got experience in risk management,'' she explains, naming the bank where she works and watching anxiously as the recruiter scribbles on her resume. 
 Ms. Yu, 43, breathes a sigh of relief when the recruiter places her resume in the review pile -- she might be called back for another round of interviews. 
 Ms. Yu was just one of hundreds of jobseekers who attended a recruiting event in the ballroom of the Sheraton LaGuardia East Hotel in Flushing, Queens, where some of China's largest financial institutions have traveled to recruit talent from abroad. The recruiters are picking from the ranks of financial sector employees who fear what the future might bring. ''I flew all the way from Charlotte, N.C., for this event. I'm trying to create a safety net for myself,'' Ms. Yu said.
 The New York event was the last of three stops made by the visiting Chinese delegation, which was made up of recruiters and representatives from more than 27 Chinese financial firms. The delegation, which held events in London and Chicago as part of its global recruiting tour, hoped to fill 170 positions by the end of its trip. 
 With jobs quickly disappearing from Wall Street and the boom in global finance over for the foreseeable future, China still offers opportunity, even as its own economy slows. Worldwide, thousands of financial service jobs have been erased because of the credit crisis, with London and New York suffering large losses.
 Now, in a reverse miniature brain drain, Chinese financial institutions are taking advantage of the downturn and focusing on the newly unemployed to diversify and upgrade their own staffs.
 ''We're looking very hard right now for experienced, senior-level talent who have knowledge of China. For our junior-level positions, we continue to recruit from our local Chinese talent pool,'' said Hong Chen, the chief executive of the Hina Group, a boutique global investment bank. The company specializes in cross-border mergers and acquisition advisory and has offices in Beijing and San Francisco. 
 In another reversal of fortune, China, because of its closed financial sector -- which Washington and the West have been insisting China open -- has been largely shielded from the toxic mortgage-backed securities that brought down many of the world's banks. Capital flows in and out of China are tightly controlled, and China's capital markets are closed to foreign companies. 
 But China's insular financial system has also kept it underdeveloped. Although employees of large Chinese financial institutions usually graduate from top Chinese universities, they lack practical market experience. 
 That lack of experience has sometimes led to poor decisions, and in some cases outright blunders. For example, the Citic Pacific Group of China recently said its realized and potential losses from an attempt to hedge currency risk associated with a large purchase of Australian dollars (needed to buy iron for its steel mills in China) topped $2.4 billion. The China Investment Corporation, the country's sovereign wealth fund, which controls $200 billion in assets, has lost money on almost all of its investments, including a loss of $2.46 billion, or 82 percent, of the $3 billion it invested in the Blackstone Group. 
 Perhaps it is not surprising then that the majority of the 27 financial institutions represented at the recruiting event, including Citic, the Bank of Shanghai, the Pudong Development Bank and the Shanghai Stock Exchange, all advertised for senior risk managers with 3 to 10 years of experience with international companies in comparable positions. 
 More than 250 people preregistered for the Queens event and more than 850 packed the ballroom. A long line spilled down the hallway, forcing staff members to limit interviews to three minutes. The applicants were a diverse array of nationalities. 
 ''Institutions here are looking for people to fill senior positions overseeing risk management, compliance and derivatives. Most importantly, they're looking for people with a global view,'' said Qin Wang, 32, a banker and a member of the Chinese Finance Association, which helped organize the New York event.
 In addition to formal recruiting events, many financial sector workers have sought jobs in China on their own, working through friends and informal social networks. 
 Tom Leggett, 30, left his investment banking job at Lazard in New York in July, ahead of expected layoffs, and moved to Beijing to search for opportunities. ''I talked things over with my parents and friends and decided to come to Beijing to canvas the scene,'' he said. ''I've been talking to both recruiters and friends in my network.''
 Despite the swelling number of unemployed financial service employees, those qualified to work for Chinese firms is extremely small. Mr. Leggett's background in Chinese -- he studied Mandarin for four years as an undergraduate student at Columbia -- made his move feasible. He has shocked many recruiters with his Chinese ability: ''They see a tall, white guy and they've got low expectations. When they find out I can say a lot more than 'hello,' in Chinese, they begin to take me seriously.'' 
 While most Chinese employees of financial institutions can speak English, Chinese is still a must for many recruiters. ''We're looking for bilingual candidates because we are constantly negotiating with local Chinese companies, and those meetings are all in Chinese,'' Mr. Hong of the Hina Group said.
 Despite the opportunities China can present, many candidates decide, in the end, not to move -- hence the Chinese companies' global search. 
 Robert Eng, 53, who used to work in the global investment division of Citigroup in New York, traveled to Hong Kong to interview for the director of private wealth position at a large Chinese financial institution. He received an offer, but turned it down, choosing to remain in the United States. 
 ''The compensation package was great, but at this point in my life it doesn't make sense for me; my family is here. Maybe if I were 20 years younger,'' Mr. Eng said.
 For many ambitious overseas candidates, a matter of worry is that they are all but guaranteed to hit a glass ceiling at state-run Chinese companies. Senior management is appointed by the personnel department of the Communist Party -- regardless of the votes or recommendations of shareholders or board directors. 
 And for many foreigners, the decision to move to mainland China involves accepting a drastic change in lifestyle. 
 Brian Connors, 35, is the owner of the Bridge cafe, a popular Italian-style restaurant and cafe in the northwest of Beijing that caters to foreigners studying Mandarin and Chinese looking to practice their English. 
 ''I've seen expatriates come and go -- it's a cyclical thing here. One of the major setbacks that causes foreigners to leave is health: pollution and congestion are hard on your body and lifestyle. The cost of living is really low and there's great service here but the infrastructure is still developing,'' he said. ''It's like living like a king over here; a king of a sort of busted castle.''
 The transition is easier for bilingual overseas Chinese like Kenneth Chen, 29, who is studying for his M.B.A. at the New York University Stern School of Business. Mr. Chen said that if he was offered a job, the decision to move to China would be a no-brainer: ''In this environment, I don't need anyone to persuade me to go to Shanghai. I want to go.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Delegates from some of China's largest financial institutions recruited talent at a recent job fair in Queens. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MELANIE FIDLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A line at the job fair for professionals in Queens presented by a visiting Chinese delegation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MELANIE FIDLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MERGERS (65%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (61%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (61%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%)

COMPANY: CITIC PACIFIC LTD (50%)

TICKER: 0267 (HKSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (57%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008



922 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Japan Tests Technology To Lift Fishing Industry

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

 BODY:
OTOSHIBE, Japan -- The Shinei Maru No. 66 looks like the dozens of other fishing boats moored in this Japanese harbor. But its builders say it is the world's first hybrid fishing trawler. By switching between oil and electric-powered propulsion, it uses up to a third less fuel than conventional boats.
''It's like a Prius for the sea,'' said Tadatoshi Ikeuchi, 62, the boat's owner and captain. 
Until very recently, commercial fishermen around the world have been laboring under the weight of high fuel prices. In Europe earlier this year, fishermen expressed their frustration by blockading ports to protest prices and taxes. In the United States, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, the former Republican vice presidential nominee, has called for low-interest loans to help Alaskan fishermen buy fuel-efficient engines.
Japan, meanwhile, is searching for high-tech solutions. In fact, the hybrid boat engine, which is still just a prototype, is part of a multimillion-dollar government-led effort to rescue Japan's fishing industry from rising energy costs, which are likely to return to rise again once the global recession ends and demand comes back.
As part of the two-year-old program, the Japanese are also testing biofuel-powered marine engines, computer-engineered propeller designs and low-energy LED lights on squid boats, which use bright lights to lure their catch.
There is a vast international market for such solutions. Many Japanese boat engines that use computers to raise fuel efficiency are already popular among American fishermen. And Yamanaka, the Tokyo-based maker of the hybrid engine for the trawler, which is called the Fish Eco, says the United States and Europe are large potential markets.
Japan's agriculture and fisheries ministry, which has led development of the new technologies, will subsidize their introduction as part of a $700 million aid package announced in July to help the fishing industry.
Modernization of this most ancient of professions seems the natural answer here to the commercial fishing crisis, which predates the run-up (and recent fall) in fuel prices. Japan gave the world both sushi and the hybrid car. But fishermen say they doubt the effort will be enough to break the deep sense of malaise that has started to afflict fishing communities like this one in northern Japan.
After decades of sending its fleets to the far corners of the globe, and paying top yen for tuna and other premium fish for sashimi in global markets, Japan appears to many to be letting its fishing industry sink. The number of commercial fishermen has shrunk by 27 percent in the last decade, to 204,330 last year, hurt by declining birthrates and migration of young people to the cities, according to the National Federation of Fisheries Cooperative Associations, an industry group representing fishermen.
The federation warns that rising fuel costs could force an additional 25,000 to 45,000 fishermen to hang up their nets. Before the recent fall in prices, boat fuel, known as heavy fuel oil, was accounting for about 20 to 30 percent of a fisherman's total costs in Japan, almost double its proportion three years ago.
They cannot pass the increase on to consumers in the form of higher seafood prices for fear of losing sales to cheaper imports from Asian competitors, like China and Vietnam.
They also worry that higher seafood prices would only worsen the shift in Japanese consumer tastes away from a traditional seafood-centered diet -- a trend known as ''sakana banare,'' or flight from fish.
''Higher fish prices will just encourage Japanese to eat more hamburgers and fried chicken,'' said Nobuhiro Nagaya, a managing director at the fisheries federation.
American fishermen make similar complaints. They say they cannot raise prices because consumers can easily defect to cheaper chicken, pork and beef. Mr. Nagaya and others here admit their fears may seem overblown to Americans, considering that the average Japanese still eats about 94 grams (3.3 ounces) of fish a day, five times the amount consumed by the average American.
Still, gloomy sentiment about the future of Japan's industry are shared by officials at the agriculture and fisheries ministry.
While their multimillion-dollar projects recall the government-orchestrated technology drives of previous decades, when Japan rose to global dominance in industries like semiconductors and supercomputers, officials express far more modest expectations today in an era of tight budgets and limited economic growth.
''Technology cannot be the only answer,'' said Kazuo Hiraishi, an assistant chief in the ministry's maritime technology research division. ''But Japan's excellence in electronics and energy-saving should be of some help to our fishermen.''
While fishermen in countries like France, Spain and Ireland have staged disruptive demonstrations, protests in Japan have been more sedate, though still large. Last summer some 200,000 fishing boats stayed in port on a one-day strike, and thousands of fishermen gathered for a peaceful rally in Tokyo.
The government responded two weeks later with the $700 million aid package that promised to pay 90 percent of fuel price increases since December, but only to fishermen who found ways to reduce their consumption. The package also contained subsidies to help fishermen buy efficient new engines, like the hybrid.
A $250,000 subsidy from the agriculture ministry, for example, meant that Mr. Ikeuchi, the hybrid boat's captain, paid only $650,000 for the trawler, the same price as a conventional boat.
Mr. Ikeuchi said his fuel use had dropped to about 75 gallons a day, cutting his daily bill by about $100.
The propulsion system switches between a 650-horsepower heavy oil motor, which powers the main engine, and a 150-horsepower heavy oil motor, which turns a generator that runs a smaller electric engine for use when the boat moves slowly.
When Mr. Ikeuchi showed off the boat, which he uses to hunt for scallops, Pacific cod and kelp, the only visible difference with other boats in this small, man-made harbor was its dashboard, with small touch-controlled screens -- high-tech devices for a craft made mostly of traditional-looking wood and steel.
Still, many fishermen who walked over to take a peek at the boat doubted it would be enough to save their industry.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tadatoshi Ikeuchi hunts for scallops, Pacific cod and kelp with the Shinei Maru No. 66, a hybrid trawler harbored in Otoshibe, Japan. Its dashboard, with touch-screen controls, betrays its high-tech abilities. ''It's like a Prius for the sea,'' he said.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY AYUMI NAKANISHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Flight From Fish: As Japan's fishing industry has shrunk and tastes have shifted away from traditional seafood-centered fare, the country has begun to look for high-tech solutions.(Sources: Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries of Japan
 National Federation of Fisheries Co-operative Associations) Chart details line and bar graphs for JAPANESE FISHERMEN and FISH CONSUMPTION IN JAPAN. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL FISHING (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); SHELLFISH FISHING (90%); FINFISH FISHING (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); FISHES (78%); FISHERIES (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (77%); BIOMASS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); BIOFUELS (72%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (62%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (60%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



923 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: Welfare as We Knew It

 BODY:
The nation's poorest citizens are already suffering some of the harshest effects of the economic decline, most notoriously with a 60 percent increase in children forced into ''food insecurity.'' That's bureaucratese for families driven to skipping meals. There were more than 690,000 youngsters who didn't have enough to eat last year. There were 783,000 meal-skipping seniors among the 36 million Americans found to be chronically lacking adequate food, according to government data. 
 This year, the hunger struggle has worsened. The number of citizens turning to food stamps -- a clear measure of fast-rising poverty -- reached a record 31.6 million in September, up more than four million in a year. 
 It's no surprise, then, that a politically acclaimed reform of the 1990s -- ''the end to welfare as we know it'' in favor of ''workfare'' -- is fast fraying at the edges. States are reporting a surge in applicants for the limited short-term cash aid allowed under the workfare rules. And the program's emphasis on shunting the poor toward low-paying, start-up jobs is becoming increasingly pointless as the job market ossifies. In a sampling of applicants for help in one hard-hit Florida county, The Washington Post found that 2 out of 5 were newcomers at seeking the government safety net. Many had recently slid from the middle class because of the subprime-mortgage debacle and rising unemployment. 
 It's important that the most hungry, poor and direly troubled Americans not be denied a proper place in line with the financial moguls, auto executives and others pleading for taxpayer help. Most immediately, a temporary increase in food-stamp benefits is needed. It fits logically in the next stimulus package, for each dollar spent on food stamps generates $1.84 in economic activity. 
 Beyond that, the workfare program's contingency fund for extending the poor emergency help during recessions seems certain to run out of money next year. Congress must deal with that. And there already are sensible calls to repair workfare as we know it, by allowing more cash assistance and easing mandates for work, at least until there's work again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POOR POPULATION (90%); FOOD SECURITY (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); FOOD STAMPS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); SUBPRIME LENDING (64%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (54%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008



924 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3239 words

PERSON: Harold Pinter 

HEADLINE: Harold Pinter, Whose Silences Redefined Drama, Dies at 78

BYLINE: By MEL GUSSOW and BEN BRANTLEY; Mel Gussow, a critic and cultural reporter for The Times, died in 2005.

 BODY:
Harold Pinter, the British playwright whose gifts for finding the ominous in the everyday and the noise within silence made him the most influential and imitated dramatist of his generation, died on Wednesday. He was 78 and lived in London.
 The cause was cancer, his wife, Lady Antonia Fraser, said Thursday. 
 Mr. Pinter learned he had cancer of the esophagus in late 2001. In 2005, when he received the Nobel Prize in Literature, he was unable to attend the awards ceremony at the Swedish Academy in Stockholm but delivered an acceptance speech from a wheelchair in a recorded video. 
 In more than 30 plays -- written between 1957 and 2000 and including masterworks like ''The Birthday Party,'' ''The Caretaker,'' ''The Homecoming'' and ''Betrayal'' -- Mr. Pinter captured the anxiety and ambiguity of life in the second half of the 20th century with terse, hypnotic dialogue filled with gaping pauses and the prospect of imminent violence. 
 Along with another Nobel winner, Samuel Beckett, his friend and mentor, Mr. Pinter became one of the few modern playwrights whose names instantly evoke a sensibility. The adjective Pinteresque has become part of the cultural vocabulary as a byword for strong and unspecified menace.
 An actor, essayist, screenwriter, poet and director as well as a dramatist, Mr. Pinter was also publicly outspoken in his views on repression and censorship, at home and abroad. He used his Nobel acceptance speech to denounce American foreign policy, saying that the United States had not only lied to justify waging war against Iraq, but that it had also ''supported and in many cases engendered every right-wing military dictatorship'' in the last 50 years.
 His political views were implicit in much of his work. Though his plays deal with the slipperiness of memory and human character, they are also almost always about the struggle for power.
 The dynamic in his work is rooted in battles for control, turf wars waged in locations that range from working-class boarding houses (in his first produced play, ''The Room,'' from 1957) to upscale restaurants (the setting for ''Celebration,'' staged in 2000). His plays often take place in a single, increasingly claustrophobic room, where conversation is a minefield and even innocuous-seeming words can wound.
 In Mr. Pinter's work ''words are weapons that the characters use to discomfort or destroy each other,'' said Peter Hall, who has staged more of Mr. Pinter's plays than any other director.
 But while Mr. Pinter's linguistic agility turned simple, sometimes obscene, words into dark, glittering and often mordantly funny poetry, it is what comes between the words that he is most famous for. And the stage direction ''pause'' would haunt him throughout his career.
 Intended as an instructive note to actors, the Pinter pause was a space for emphasis and breathing room. But it could also be as threatening as a raised fist. Mr. Pinter said that writing the word ''pause'' into his first play was ''a fatal error.'' It is certainly the aspect of his writing that has been most parodied. But no other playwright has consistently used pauses with such rhythmic assurance and to such fine-tuned manipulative effect.
 Early in his career Mr. Pinter said his work was about ''the weasel under the cocktail cabinet.'' Though he later regretted the image, it holds up as a metaphor for the undertow of danger that pervades his work. As Martin Esslin wrote in his book ''Pinter: The Playwright,'' ''Man's existential fear, not as an abstraction, but as something real, ordinary and acceptable as an everyday occurrence -- here we have the core of Pinter's work as a dramatist.''
 Though often grouped with Beckett and others as a practitioner of Theater of the Absurd, Mr. Pinter considered himself a realist. In 1962 he said the context of his plays was always ''concrete and particular.'' He never found a need to alter that assessment.
 Beginning in the late 1950s, John Osborne and Mr. Pinter helped to turn British theater away from the gentility of the drawing room. With ''Look Back in Anger,'' Osborne opened the door for several succeeding generations of angry young men, who railed against the class system and an ineffectual government. Mr. Pinter was to have the more lasting effect as an innovator and a stylist. And his influence on other playwrights, including David Mamet in the United States and Patrick Marber and Jez Butterworth in England, is undeniable.
 The playwright Tom Stoppard said that before Mr. Pinter: ''One thing plays had in common: you were supposed to believe what people said up there. If somebody comes in and says, 'Tea or coffee?' and the answer is 'Tea,' you are entitled to assume that somebody is offered a choice of two drinks, and the second person has stated a preference.'' With Mr. Pinter there are alternatives, ''such as the man preferred coffee but the other person wished him to have tea,'' Mr. Stoppard said, ''or that he preferred the stuff you make from coffee beans under the impression that it was called tea.''
 As another British playwright, David Hare, said of Mr. Pinter, ''The essence of his singular appeal is that you sit down to every play or film he writes in certain expectation of the unexpected.''
 Though initially regarded as an intuitive rather than an intellectual playwright, Mr. Pinter was in fact both. His plays are dense with references to writers like James Joyce and T. S. Eliot. The annual Pinter Review, in which scholars probe and parse his works for meaning and metaphor, is one of many indications of his secure berth in academia.
 Politics Inside the Plays
 While it was not immediately apparent, Mr. Pinter was always a writer with a political sensibility, which became overt in later plays like ''One for the Road'' (1984) and ''Mountain Language'' (1988). These works, having to do ''not with ambiguities of power, but actual power,'' he said, were written out of ''very cold anger.'' 
 He and his wife hosted gatherings in their Holland Park town house for liberal political seminars. Known as the June 20th Society, the participants included Mr. Hare, Ian McEwan, Michael Holroyd, John Mortimer, Salman Rushdie and Germaine Greer. In their discussions Mr. Pinter expressed the great struggle of the mid-20th century as one between ''primitive rage'' and ''liberal generosity,'' Mr. Hare said.
 Through the years Mr. Pinter became known, especially to the British news media, for having a prickly personality. ''There is a violence in me,'' Mr. Pinter once said, ''but I don't walk around looking for trouble.'' The director Richard Eyre said in a testimonial book published for Mr. Pinter's 70th birthday that he was ''sometimes pugnacious and occasionally splenetic'' but ''just as often droll and generous -- particularly to actors, directors and (a rare quality this) other writers.''
 Harold Pinter was born in Hackney in the East End of London on Oct. 10, 1930. His father, Jack, was a tailor; his mother, Frances, a homemaker. Mr. Pinter's grandparents had emigrated to England from Eastern Europe. His parents, he said, were ''very solid, very respectable, Jewish, lower-middle-class people.''
 With the outbreak of World War II in 1939, Harold, an only child, was evacuated from London to a provincial town in Cornwall. His feelings of loneliness and isolation from that time were to surface later in his plays. When he was 13, he returned to London and was there during the Blitz when his house was struck by a bomb. He rushed inside to rescue a few valuable possessions: his cricket bat and a poem -- ''a paean of love'' -- he was writing to a girlfriend.
 Sports, poetry and his relationships with women were to remain important to him. Vigorously athletic, he was a fierce competitor in cricket and tennis. Ian Smith, an Oxford don and cricket teammate, equated Mr. Pinter's art with his bold style of playing cricket. ''Everything is focused,'' he said. ''It's about performance and economy of gesture.''
 Poetry and Pacifism
 Mr. Pinter grew up on a diet of American gangster movies and British war films. From the first he was a great reader and a hopeful poet, with strong political judgments. When he was called up for military service at 18, as a pacifist he refused to serve.
 In diverse ways he remained a conscientious objector in the years to come, echoing a line in ''The Birthday Party,'' in which Stanley, a lodger in a seaside boarding house, is suddenly taken away by two strangers to some ominous future as a friend cries out, ''Stan, don't let them tell you what to do!'' Years later, Mr. Pinter said he had lived that line all his life.
 Mr. Pinter's first poem was published in a magazine called Poetry London when he was 20. Soon afterward he completed a novel, ''The Dwarfs.'' After studying at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art and the Central School of Speech and Drama, he signed on with a repertory company and, performing under the name David Baron, toured Ireland in plays by Shakespeare and others, often in villainous roles like Iago.
 In 1955, at a party in London, Mr. Pinter was struck by what he referred to as ''an odd image.'' A little man, who later turned out to be the writer and professional eccentric Quentin Crisp, was making bacon and eggs for a large man who was sitting at a table reading the comics. Mr. Pinter told his friend Henry Woolf about the incident and said he thought he might write a play about it. The next year Mr. Woolf, then a graduate student at the University of Bristol, asked him if he could write that play for a group of drama students.
 The resulting work, ''The Room,'' was Mr. Pinter's first play. And with its story of mysterious intruders and its elliptical speech, it showed that Mr. Pinter had already found his voice as a dramatist. It opened in Bristol on May 15, 1957, and was restaged three years later at the Hampstead Theater Club in London.
 In 1956 Mr. Pinter married Vivien Merchant, an actress in the company. After their son, Daniel, was born in 1958, they moved to the Chiswick section of London. He wrote ''The Birthday Party,'' his first full-length play, drawing on his memories of touring as an actor in Eastbourne, on Britain's south coast.
 The Pinters, who were temporarily unemployed and desperately poor, had an offer to act in Birmingham, and Ms. Merchant wanted to accept it. But Mr. Pinter said: ''I have this play opening in London. I think I must stay. Something's going to happen.'' She replied, ''What makes you think so?''
 They turned down the acting offer. ''The Birthday Party'' opened in the West End in 1958 and received disastrous reviews. Then, prodded by the theatrical agent Peggy Ramsay, Harold Hobson, the eminent critic of The Sunday Times of London, came to see it at a matinee. What he wrote turned out to be a life-changing review.
 ''It breathes in the air,'' Hobson wrote. ''It cannot be seen, but it enters the room every time the door is opened.'' He continued: ''Though you go to the uttermost parts of the earth, and hide yourself in the most obscure lodgings in the least popular of towns, one day there is a possibility that two men will appear. They will be looking for you, and you cannot get away. And someone will be looking for them too. There is terror everywhere.'' He concluded, ''Mr. Pinter, on the evidence of this work, possesses the most original, disturbing and arresting talent in theatrical London.''
 Despite that review the play closed that weekend. By contrast Mr. Pinter's next full-length play to be produced, ''The Caretaker,'' which opened in London in 1960, was a dazzling critical success. ''Suddenly everything went topsy-turvy,'' Mr. Pinter said.
 In that play two brothers live in a seedy house in London and, for inexplicable reasons, invite a homeless man named Davies to share their quarters and to act as a kind of custodian. Michael Billington, a critic for The Guardian and Mr. Pinter's biographer, has called the play ''an austere masterpiece: a universally recognizable play about political maneuvering, fraternal love, spiritual isolation, language as a negotiating weapon or a form of cover-up.''
 Mr. Pinter's next play, ''The Homecoming,'' opened in London in June 1965, in a Royal Shakespeare Company production directed by Mr. Hall. The story of an all-male family headed by a Lear-like father and the woman (Ms. Merchant, who starred in many of his plays) who enters and disrupts their domain scored a major success in London. Though it received a mixed reception in New York, ''The Homecoming'' won a Tony Award as best play and had a long run on Broadway.
 A Shift of Focus
 After these first three full-length plays -- all stories of raffish characters in shabby environments -- Mr. Pinter shifted his focus. His next three dramas were set in the worlds of art and publishing: ''Old Times'' (1971), ''No Man's Land'' (1975) and ''Betrayal'' (1978), all studies of the unreliability of memory and the uncertainty of love. In ''Old Times'' a husband and wife encounter a woman they may or may not have known in the past.
 In ''No Man's Land'' a faded poet visits a wealthy patron for an evening of recollection and gamesmanship, roles played in the original production by John Gielgud and Ralph Richardson, who repeated their performances in New York the next year. The elegant ''Betrayal'' is a play about marriage and duplicity and, despite its use of reverse chronology, is among Mr. Pinter's most accessible works. It was made into a 1982 film starring Jeremy Irons, Ben Kingsley and Patricia Hodge.
 During the run of ''No Man's Land'' Mr. Pinter began an affair with Lady Antonia Fraser, the biographer and historian, who was then married to Hugh Fraser, a conservative politician. In 1980 Mr. Pinter and Lady Antonia were married, with Mr. Pinter becoming the substitute paterfamilias of an extended family.
 In addition to his wife, his survivors include his son, Daniel, and his stepchildren, Benjamin, Damian, Orlando, Rebecca, Flora and Natasha. Years ago his son changed his last name to Brand, his maternal grandmother's maiden name. He had been estranged from his father, living as a recluse in Cambridgeshire. 
 After ''Betrayal'' Mr. Pinter's plays became shorter (like ''A Kind of Alaska'') and then, for about three years, they stopped. ''Something gnaws away,'' he explained, ''the desire to write something and the inability to do so.'' He added, ''I think I was getting more and more imbedded in international issues.''
 At the same time he continued his involvement in films, highlighted by his close collaboration as screenwriter with the director Joseph Losey, which began in 1963 with ''The Servant,'' a depiction of class relations in Britain. That was followed in 1967 by ''Accident,'' about a professor infatuated with a student (Mr. Pinter and Ms. Merchant each had minor parts), and ''The Go-Between'' (1971), about a boy's complicity in an adult affair in turn of the century Britain, with Julie Christie andAlan Bates.
 His many screenplays for other directors include ''The Pumpkin Eater'' (1964), about a woman (Anne Bancroft) drifting through multiple marriages, directed by Jack Clayton; ''The Last Tycoon,'' Elia Kazan's 1976 adaptation of the Fitzgerald novel; and ''The French Lieutenant's Woman'' (1981), a Karel Reisz film with Meryl Streep and Mr. Irons.
 With his plays ''Moonlight'' (a portrait of family relationships undermined by years of divisiveness) and ''Ashes to Ashes'' (a story of ''torturers and victims'' reflected in a typically uncommunicative marriage), Mr. Pinter returned to the longer, somberly meditative form. 
 His final work, ''Celebration'' (2000), is a wry look at power-conscious couples dining in a chic restaurant that bears a striking resemblance to the Ivy, a famous theater gathering place in London. ''Celebration'' was inspired by the playwright's early days as an unemployed actor, when he took a job as a busboy at the National Liberal Club. Because he dared to intrude on a conversation among several diners, he was fired.
 The Writer as Director
 He often directed plays by others, especially those by Simon Gray (''Butley,'' ''Otherwise Engaged''), and occasionally his own work. Increasingly and with greater zeal he appeared as an actor -- onstage with Paul Eddington in ''No Man's Land'' and in films like ''Mojo,'' ''Mansfield Park'' and ''The Tailor of Panama.'' Throughout his life he specialized in playing menacing characters, including several in his own plays (''The Hothouse,'' ''One for the Road'').
 In July 2001 the highlight of the Lincoln Center Festival in New York was the presentation of nine Pinter plays, including a revival of ''The Homecoming,'' and a pairing of his first and last plays, ''The Room'' and ''Celebration.'' Mr. Pinter participated as a director and also acted in ''One for the Road'' in the role of a dapper and sadistic government interrogator.
 The Pinter festival was the capstone of a season that, in London, featured the premiere at the National Theater of a stage version of his film script for ''Remembrance of Things Past.'' Late in 2001 he directed an acclaimed revival of ''No Man's Land,'' starring John Wood and Corin Redgrave at the National Theater.
 In December 2001, during a routine medical examination, he was found to have cancer of the esophagus. In January 2002, while undergoing treatment, he acted in his brief comic sketch ''Press Conference'' at the National Theater in a malicious role as a minister of culture who was formerly the head of the secret police. In 2006 he appeared in a weeklong, sold-out production of Beckett's one-man play, ''Krapp's Last Tape,'' at the Royal Court Theater.
 ''Pinter looks anxiously over his left shoulder into the darkness as if he felt death's presence in the room,'' Mr. Billington of The Guardian wrote. ''It is impossible to dissociate Pinter's own recent encounters with mortality from that of the character.'' 
 Revivals of Mr. Pinter's work have become increasingly frequent in recent years. Last December an acclaimed production of his ''Homecoming'' opened on Broadway.
 Mr. Pinter said he thought of theater as essentially exploratory. ''Even old Sophocles didn't know what was going to happen next,'' he said. ''He had to find his way through unknown territory. At the same time, theater has always been a critical act, looking in a broad sense at the society in which we live and attempting to reflect and dramatize these findings. We're not talking about the moon.''
 Speaking about his intuitive sense of writing, he said, ''I find at the end of the journey, which of course is never ending, that I have found things out.''
 ''I don't go away and say: 'I have illuminated myself. You see before you a changed person,' '' he added. ''It's a more surreptitious sense of discovery that happens to the writer himself.''
 Few writers have been so consistent over so many years in the tone and execution of their work. Just before rehearsals began for the West End production of ''The Birthday Party'' half a century ago, Mr. Pinter sent a letter to his director, Peter Wood. In it he said, ''The play dictated itself, but I confess that I wrote it -- with intent, maliciously, purposefully, in command of its growth.''
 He added: ''The play is a comedy because the whole state of affairs is absurd and inglorious. It is, however, as you know, a very serious piece of work.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Harold Pinter in 1999.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN PLAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Julie Christie and Harold Pinter on the set of the 1971 film ''The Go-Between.'' Mr. Pinter adapted the screenplay from a novel by L. P. Hartley.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EVERETT COLLECTION)
John Gielgud, left, and Ralph Richardson performing in Harold Pinter's play ''No Man's Land'' in 1975. Right, Mr. Pinter playing Sir Thomas Bertram in a scene from the film ''Mansfield Park,'' released in 1999.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANTHONY CRICKMAY)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIRAMAX FILMS)
 Harold Pinter with his wife, Lady Antonia Fraser, at Buckingham Palace in 1999.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER JORDAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. A36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (91%); WRITERS (91%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); IRAQ WAR (76%); POETRY (76%); LINGUISTICS (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); CENSORSHIP (75%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (75%); GASTROINTESTINAL CANCER (72%); CANCER (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); FILM DIRECTORS (65%); RESTAURANTS (61%); THEATER (58%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); SWEDEN (79%); IRAQ (78%)

CATEGORY: Theater

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008



925 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1399 words

HEADLINE: All's Fair in Middle School Scramble, Even Panic

BYLINE: By ELISSA GOOTMAN

 BODY:
In the quest to find the perfect middle school for her 10-year-old daughter, Aimee Margolis has zig-zagged across Manhattan for 11 school visits, grilled pre-teenagers at a school fair on music classes and the preferred attire at dances, and compiled a dog-eared folder full of notes. 
 Then there is the bathroom test. 
 After a 90-minute tour of the Clinton School for Writers and Artists in Chelsea, Ms. Margolis casually slipped away for what appeared to be a quick pit stop. She carefully occupied a stall, waited for a cluster of students to walk in, and listened. 
 ''It gives you a glimpse behind the scenes,'' Ms. Margolis explained of her sub rosa research. ''At the tour everybody's ready for you, everybody has a happy face. They say what they want to say, and you hear what they want you to hear.'' 
 As the Bloomberg administration has created hundreds of new schools, centralized the admissions process and publicized the options, there is a wave of panic among many parents of fifth graders facing the next step. And throughout the country, middle school is increasingly seen as a kind of educational black hole where raging hormones, changes in how youngsters learn and a dearth of great teachers can collide to send test scores plummeting. 
 Many parents fear that picking the wrong school could dash their children's chances for a top high school or college.
 This year, worry that the economic downturn could create an influx of students fleeing private schools has only ratcheted up the anxiety in the city's wealthier neighborhoods. In the lowest-performing districts, the pressure is more urgent because of a new retention policy that could hold back many failing eighth-graders, raising the frightening specter of hallways populated by bearded teenagers. Many parents also fear that impending budget cuts could endanger the arts and sports programs they rely on to captivate even the surliest adolescent. 
 For the vast majority of parents who send their children to neighborhood elementary schools, fifth grade is when they face a smorgasbord of school choice; 10 of the city's 32 districts require applications (rather than automatically assigning students by geography), and most others welcome them. So this is a season when parents obsessed with small classes and seasoned teachers face off with fifth graders focused on, say, whether they would be allowed to eat lunch off-campus and what scents waft down hallways. 
 ''We've got to find him somewhere where he's going to blossom,'' Agni Zotis said of her shaggy-haired son, Francis Serrano. ''This is a very fragile age. Things get introduced. If they're not directed well, they could get lost.''
 Over the past two years, the city has taken steps to standardize middle-school admissions, organizing fairs in each district, printing directories to clarify options and creating a uniform timeline. Applications preprinted with each fifth grader's test scores and attendance record were distributed this month and are due, with choices ranked, on Jan. 9. For the first time, the applications will be processed using a $9.7 million system being developed by Vanguard Direct for prekindergarten through high school admissions.
 But these changes have also highlighted how wildly admissions policies vary between schools and districts.
 For example, of the 16 middle schools in District 2, which covers the Upper East Side and much of Lower Manhattan, one, Greenwich Village Middle, considers grades, interviews, writing samples, teacher recommendations and ''group problem-solving tasks,'' while another, Middle School 131, weighs attendance and punctuality, among other factors.
 In District 12 in the Bronx, 14 middle schools select students randomly or with preference for certain addresses, while five others are open only to students in certain neighborhoods. Two Queens districts do not use the city's applications, simply placing students by geography (though some schools within them have their own applications). 
 About 100 people attended a recent information session in the Bronx for parents in Districts 12 and 8, roughly half as many as participated in the tour of District 2's Clinton School with the Margolises. Some Bronx parents said the session only underscored how much they did not know.
 ''He needs so many different services, that's what makes me confused,'' Doreen White, who runs a day care center, said of her son, who has cerebral palsy. ''I don't know what schools offer it.'' 
 Richard Toran was surprised to learn that the charter school his daughter attends was supposed to have already given her an application form. ''We're playing catch-up,'' he said. 
 In District 2, which includes some of the nation's wealthiest neighborhoods and the city's most competitive schools, the problem is often too much information.
 At a recent open house at East Side Middle School, on York Avenue, Denise Halpin, a math teacher, recalled her own son selecting a middle school because it offered clay animation, ''which to me was like deciding on your house because of the doorknob.'' The analogy drew chuckles from parents, as children hoisted their hands.
 ''Do you guys have lockers?'' asked Emma Patterson, 10.
 Isabel Lichtenstein, also 10, asked whether East Side students dissect animals. School officials, apparently thinking the right answer was ''yes,'' acknowledged that they did not, but hastily explained that they do dissect flowers. 
 Bingo. ''I'm a vegetarian,'' Isabel said afterward, wrinkling her nose. ''I can't stand dissecting.'' 
 Emma, Isabel and their friend Lena Schnall have been making the rounds of tours and open houses, scrawling into dedicated notebooks such observations as ''cafeteria smells like chili,'' ''lots of stairs,'' ''modern bathrooms'' and wall color. 
 ''If it's a really ugly color, I don't like it that much,'' Emma explained. Some school tour guides, she complained, are too focused on addressing parents' concerns, which she summarized as ''the academics are like collaborative and blah, blah,'' and dismissed as ''not as important as, like, having lockers and stuff.'' 
 East Side Middle's tours have become so sought-after that the school replaced them with evening open houses. These have drawn more than 2,000 people, for perhaps 140 spots. 
 Some parents feel that 10-year-olds are too young and vulnerable to be navigating a competitive admissions process. 
 ''They're already questioning 'what are my strengths, what are my weaknesses, am I good enough, do I fit in?' I think this process magnifies those concerns for kids,'' said Deidre Ferrell, a school librarian whose daughter, Rachel, is a fifth grader at Public School 29 in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn. ''It seems to me almost like it's an open market, and kids are being pushed up like, 'Let me look at your teeth.' '' 
 Joyce Szuflita, who runs NYC School Help, which guides Brooklyn parents through school choice, said she was prepping a handful of clients for middle school interviews. 
 ''These interviews are not horribly scary, high-stakes interviews, but these are little kids who aren't used to talking to grownups,'' she said. ''Because they're shy or they're adolescents, they spend their time kicking each other under the table.'' 
 When Ms. Szuflita's twin daughters, now 15, prepared to interview for middle school, she distributed lists of questions to neighbors, then sent the girls off to make their best impression. 
 ''They thought I was embarrassing for doing it,'' Ms. Szuflita said. ''But they appreciated it afterwards.''
 When Ms. Margolis was on her 11th school tour, she overheard parents talking about hiring coaches like Ms. Szuflita. She shrugged it off as overkill but also worried just a little that her daughter, Amelia, could be at a disadvantage. 
 Mother and daughter dipped into Clinton's classrooms, where Amelia nodded approvingly during a writing lesson on test-taking strategies, and perked up upon seeing a friend in a math class. Unlike another school, whose impressive tour was undercut by a dismal bathroom test in which Ms. Margolis heard students poking fun at teachers, making grammatical mistakes and using ''trash mouth,'' Clinton's bathroom-goers revealed themselves to be articulate, friendly nonswearers who at least momentarily refrained from gossip. 
 The deal was sealed: Amelia would choose Clinton, and hope the feeling would be mutual.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Aimee Margolis, mother of Amelia, with a question for the principal of the Clinton School for Writers and Artists.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (90%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PARENTS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL CHOICE (73%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); BUDGETS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008



926 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Survivor Pools: The Real Frenzy Is Before Kickoff

BYLINE: By ALAN SCHWARZ

 BODY:
Big E is a New Jersey optician. His credit cards have five figures of memories from his son's recent bar mitzvah. And all he needs to pay them off is to pick the winner of just one more N.F.L. game Sunday, make it 17 weeks in a row, and win up to $300,000 in his season-long survivor pool.
 Baltimore over Jacksonville? Atlanta over St. Louis? Picking the last winner is actually easier than the negotiations that he will surely begin percolating by Friday. Will he want to split the pot now with his 14 fellow survivors -- take $20,000 and call it a season? Or will he risk his sure share by putting it all on the Ravens or the Falcons, with the possibility of one fullback's ill-timed fumble leaving him with nothing?
 It's fourth-and-inches, time ticking away. And like the coach whom so many fans scream at when he wimps out and settles for a tie, Big E is finding himself a tad conservative. 
 ''I would probably go for the $20,000,'' said Big E, who uses only that nickname in his pool dealings because he will not report any gambling income on his tax return. ''It's nice to get some cash off the table. Maybe take a vacation. And that bar mitzvah. But it's hard. I mean, 300 grand is real, and it's real close.''
 As the N.F.L. playoff races clamber to the finish line, tens of thousands of fans' so-called survivor pools will climax in a nail-biting, flat-screen-smashing and cash-counting frenzy on Sunday. They are simple games: every week, people must predict the winner of any game they want -- forget the point spread -- but any loss knocks them out. The last person standing wins. 
 The catch in most such pools is that a player cannot pick a team more than once each season. So while identifying a mismatch each week is not particularly hard, strategizing when to take your one shot with the dominant Tennessee Titans or to trust that the lowly Detroit Lions will not awaken becomes an exercise in patience, probability and searing regret.
 Survivor pools have become Fall's Frenzy to March's Madness. And in the final week, when the roughly 2 percent of players still alive can choose between certainty and fantasy, they find themselves firing synapses so intrinsically human that even football coaches share them.
 ''It's called loss aversion, and in some cases, the endowment effect,'' said George Loewenstein, a professor of economics and psychology at Carnegie Mellon University who specializes in the role of emotions in economic behavior. ''People don't want to lose what they have in their hands already, and they're more likely to risk it if it's a low-enough amount.''
 This tendency is illustrated in a famous coin-flipping experiment. Offer people the chance to win $150 on heads or lose $100 on tails, and a considerable majority will decline -- even though it is a fantastic deal -- because losing one's own money is so distasteful. But these same people will blithely toss $25 chips on a blackjack table because they do not feel quite real. (This helps Las Vegas pay for all those flashing lights.)
 Loewenstein said that he expected that people in football survivor pools this week, most of whom are simply fans making the season more fun, would grab their piece of a big pot now. Although some people are just daring -- or too confident to credit their competition's skill in getting this far -- most players would consider their share to be too substantial and enticing to risk on some -- dare they say it? -- football game.
 ''At a certain point where the money could affect their life, they don't want to lose it,'' Loewenstein said.
 Survival pool players generally do just that, according to Matt Kornguth, whose Web site, runyourpool.com, tracks picks and standings for 700 survivor tournaments involving more than 40,000 players and surely more than $1 million in prize money. (To keep his role legal, Kornguth does not handle or take a cut of any money, but he joked, ''We assume they aren't doing it for Gummi Bears.'') Kornguth said most pools used a majority-rules method of splitting the pot in the final week, because social pools do not like one or two risk-takers' pushing everyone out of the plane.
 But it is not always so easy. Josh, an advertising sales executive in New York, was tied with one other player a few years ago for a $5,000 pot and seemingly had no chance for a split, because his best pick (the Chicago Bears) was far more tenuous than his trash-talking opponent's (the Jacksonville Jaguars). But the Bears won and the Jaguars were upset -- though not as much as the guy who cockily blew $2,500.
 At the other end of the field are harder-core survivor pools, in which all participants must agree to a split or everyone steps once more unto the breach. This season's pool among employees of a major sports league was down to three people; one of them demanded to press forward, and lost. 
 In Big E's pool two years ago, one renegade turned down a six-way split of $250,000 because he could still go with 11-3 Indianapolis against 4-10 Houston.
 Texans 27, Colts 24.
 ''There's always somebody who declines the split and says, 'I want it all,' '' said Craig, a computer technician who runs a survivor pool in Coral Springs, Fla. ''In my experience, that one person has lost and not won anything. It's karma.''
 Big E's pool is one of the nation's largest, with 3,000 players each anteing up $115. It is run by a New Yorker known only as Fish; all players in this article requested anonymity to avoid inquiries from the authorities, including the Internal Revenue Service, law enforcement and, perhaps most chillingly, their wives.
 Gambling laws vary by state, but football survivor pools (and others like March Madness brackets) generally are legal as long as the person running it does not take a cut, according to Chuck Humphrey, a lawyer in Colorado who specializes in gambling law.
 Humphrey emphasized that winners must of course declare their bounty on their tax return; this is done roughly as often as anyone takes the Raiders on the road. Fish strikes a clever balance: he breaks the law by having it understood that $15 of every $115 entry fee goes to him -- he calls it a tip -- and then has a standard reply if things get dicey.
 ''If someone says, 'Hey, where's my $45,000?' this year, I'll say here you go -- and here's your 1099, too,'' he said, laughing.
 Big E hopes to have such problems -- but still has some big decisions to make. Fourteen others are out for that $300,000. There is almost no chance that everyone will go for a $20,000 split. He is inclined to propose that each player takes $10,000 as insurance and leaves $150,000 up for grabs, but consensus at this stage is almost impossible.
 So which team should he take on Sunday? His best choices are probably the 10-5 Baltimore Ravens -- hosting Jacksonville with a playoff spot on the line -- and the 10-5 Atlanta Falcons hosting the dreadful St. Louis Rams. He can still pick the Green Bay Packers, and they are hosting the winless Lions, but intradivision games make him nervous.
 Negotiations could continue until kickoff. Whether Big E wins $300,000, $160,000, $20,000 or $10,000, he knows that his first purchase will be an insurance policy.
 ''I would definitely get my wife something real nice,'' he said. ''So she'd let me play next year.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (88%); SPORTS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE RAVENS (56%); ATLANTA FALCONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (72%); DETROIT, MI, USA (52%) GEORGIA, USA (72%); MICHIGAN, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008



927 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Putting a Value on the Work We Do

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''A Race to the Bottom'' (column, Dec. 23):
 Bob Herbert's reminder of the importance of teachers and the average worker hits at a fundamental problem with our society -- when given the choice to value people who are providing worthwhile services or people who exist purely to satiate their own wealth and fame, we choose the latter.
 How else to describe a society that believes that the average teacher or autoworker should take a pay cut while the average millionaire shouldn't be overly taxed? 
 We can point fingers at Bernard L. Madoff as a bad apple in a basically well-intentioned system, but really he is a reflection of the economy we have chosen for ourselves.
 Until we face this fact, no amount of bailout money will save us from a profoundly dysfunctional society in which actors, pop stars and hedge fund managers impress us more than the people teaching our children how to read.
 Lynne Goldhammer Brooklyn, Dec. 23, 2008
 To the Editor:
 By accepting a 50 percent cut in wages to $14 per hour for new hires in recent labor contracts, the United Auto Workers union acknowledges that the market does not value unskilled or semiskilled labor to the tune of $29 per hour plus health and pension benefits. 
 Many recent college graduates with degrees in nursing or civil engineering cannot find jobs that pay $29 per hour and offer health care and pensions. If autoworkers want more, then go to college, but don't lobby Congress for my tax dollars in the form of a bailout.
 Matthew C. Marshall Richmond, Va., Dec. 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I applaud Bob Herbert's support for workers and teachers. 
 I flew from Hartford to Tucson yesterday and thought what expertise and experience are needed to keep these planes operating safely. Bless those mechanics! 
 I have children who are superb, dedicated teachers but who cannot afford to raise their children on their salaries and who are under constant criticism that their students did not score high enough on state tests. 
 I do not believe that a chief executive or doctor should be paid more than our president. Those jobs do not require more expertise or involve more stress than his. We have an out-of-balance idea of compensation. 
 Mr. Herbert is right: to blame our problems on our lowest-paid workers is a sham.
 Martha Armstrong Hatfield, Mass., Dec. 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I seem to experience daily the weird disconnect of talking to people who think it is somehow vital that the average American wage be driven down. 
 Living in the deeply anti-union South, I am routinely baffled by conversations with people whose spite and resentment blind them to the fact that they benefit from upward wage pressure from unions to which they do not belong.
 I am glad that someone with a national audience is finally talking about the absurdity of Americans arguing that Americans are overpaid. 
 David Tallman Atlanta, Dec. 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The attacks on union compensation Bob Herbert describes are most egregious when they come from Republican lawmakers, who earn more than $160,000 a year with excellent benefits and will probably be able to return to or begin other lucrative employment when they leave office. 
 I suggest in these difficult economic times that lawmakers do what they are asking of the autoworkers, whose taxes support them, and take large cuts in both their salaries and pension benefits.
 Carol Nissenson Washington, Dec. 24, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY INGO FAST) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); LOBBYING (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); HEDGE FUNDS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (53%) ARIZONA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008



928 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: Labor Loses Some Clout In France

BYLINE: By KATRIN BENNHOLD

DATELINE: SOCHAUX, France 

 BODY:
When the financial crisis in the United States washed up on Europe's shores and pushed the economy into recession, the workers at the Peugeot car plant in this village in eastern France were afraid -- and angry.
 Waving the red banners of the biggest French labor union, the CGT, they staged prolonged strikes to demand not only an end to unemployment but also shorter workweeks and longer vacations. With millions of other strikers nationwide, they extracted a host of new benefits for French workers, even as the economy continued to drag.
 That was in the 1930s.
 Today, with the global economy once again in a tailspin, European workers have remained conspicuously quiet. Germany's most powerful union, IG Metall, reached a modest wage deal with employers in record time last month, avoiding crippling strikes and reflecting, perhaps, a national predilection for caution. Yet even in France, where there have been scattered protests over factory closings and job cuts, there is little evidence of a unified labor reaction. Tellingly, efforts by the CGT to organize a nationwide protest before Christmas fizzled, prompting union leaders to postpone the initiative until next year. 
 In part, that suggests that the president of France, Nicolas Sarkozy, has had some success in taming his country's notoriously rebellious unions, even if he made some tactical retreats this month. But it also shows how fragmented the labor movement has become and how much heavier the pressures of globalization and competition from low-cost countries weigh on the European economy.
 Indeed, as some of the biggest French multinationals, including PSA Peugeot Citroen, the country's No. 1 carmaker, have temporarily halted production in dozens of factories across the country, the most powerful weapon of the unions has become increasingly impotent.
 ''Striking is hardly a threat when management doesn't want you to work,'' Bruno Lemerle, the head of the CGT at Sochaux, said gloomily. ''It's difficult to imagine a 1930s-style mobilization today.''
 With its 12,500 workers and 56 kilometers, or 35 miles, of roads and railways inside its confines, the Sochaux plant is the biggest factory in France and has almost mythical status in the country's industrial lore. It is also in many ways a microcosm of corporate France and its complex labor relations.
 There are eight unions vying for members at the plant, mirroring the national fragmentation. Membership here is even less than the national rate of 8 percent -- which itself is lower than in the United States.
 But unions in Sochaux and elsewhere in France still negotiate on behalf of all employees at a company. When they win a raise, all workers benefit, not just their members. Add to that a tradition of street protest that dates back to the French Revolution, and organized labor has traditionally enjoyed far more influence than the numbers suggest.
 That appears to be changing, though.
 On the deserted Sochaux factory floor one recent afternoon, Nadege Taesch explained why she had not joined a union and would not support protests. ''This crisis is frightening, and I don't see how the unions can change that,'' said Ms. Taesch, 32, as she pulled a light-blue plastic cover over one of hundreds of half-finished Peugeot models stretching along the motionless two-story assembly line.
 ''I'm not scared of management,'' she said. ''I'm scared of how bad the economy will be in 2009.''
 Like Ms. Taesch, many here remember hearing Mr. Sarkozy's promise to save a steel plant from shutting down in March, only to find that six months later it was closing anyway. And few trust the president's ability long term to stop bosses from moving production to low-cost countries, as he again demanded last week at a meeting with auto industry executives.
 In part, unions have become a victim of their own success.
 ''In the 1930s the situation was very different; workers did not have many rights,'' said Michel David, 61, a former Peugeot worker whose father worked at Sochaux during the Great Depression and whose 29-year-old daughter is employed there today. ''These days we have long holidays and a lot of protection. How much further can you go?''
 Generous benefits, like the 35-hour workweek and a minimum of five weeks of paid annual leave in France, have certainly helped to keep a lid on union mobilization.
 The 6,000-odd Peugeot workers who have been sent home for the next month are still paid their full salaries, losing a maximum of 150 euros ($210), in transport and meal subsidies a month, thanks to an agreement with the unions that allows the company to compensate overtime with down time and vice versa.
 Employees of Peugeot's many suppliers are less fortunate. But even they get half their pay for staying at home up to four months a year, with the state covering at least 2.13 euros of the hourly rate under a provision known here as ''technical unemployment.''
 By contrast, there was no statutory workweek or paid vacation at all in the 1930s. A single union -- the CGT -- dominated the landscape, manpower was in short supply after the carnage of World War I and leftist parties were gaining strength, winning power in 1936. One of their first acts was the law establishing a 40-hour workweek and 15 days of paid annual leave.
 But as more unions have popped up, and with the opposition Socialist Party mired in disarray, organized labor has increasingly been on the defensive, said Guy Groux, a specialist on the union movement at the Institut d'Etudes Politiques in Paris and co-author of ''The Strike,'' a book on the history of worker revolts published this year.
 ''The only way the microprotests we are seeing today could develop into a mass protest would be either mobilizing the public sector or the student movement,'' both groups that are less immediately affected by economic pressures and have played an important role in past rebellions, Mr. Groux said.
 Union membership in the public sector is three times as high as in the private sector. In 1995, train drivers shut down the country with a prolonged strike that led to the withdrawal of a curb in their retirement benefits.
 Students, meanwhile, have repeatedly achieved the withdrawal of proposals and hastened the end of some political careers, most recently in 2006 with a two-month street rebellion against a youth employment law put forward by the prime minister at the time, Dominique de Villepin.
 With one eye on that history and another on the recent youth riots in Greece, the Sarkozy government postponed plans to revamp the secondary school curriculum, which had been the target of weeks of student protests.
 But since Mr. Sarkozy took office last year, unions have consistently failed to muster a critical mass on the street.
 New laws establishing minimum service during transport strikes, and obliging unions to garner the backing of at least 10 percent of employees inside a company before being allowed to sign deals on their behalf, proved popular with voters.
 Not that the unions have become completely powerless: they secured significant concessions in return for accepting tightening of public sector retirement benefits last year, and this month helped pressure the government into drastically weakening a proposal that would allow stores to open on Sundays.
 And if economic conditions worsen and more jobs are lost, some predict that workers could begin to stir, especially when the partial unemployment benefits start to run out.
 Nearly 75 percent of French people now fear for their job, a proportion that rises to 80 percent for private sector employees, according to an opinion poll published recentlyby the TNS Sofres institute.
 After meeting fellow union leaders last week, the head of the CGT, Bernard Thibault, announced plans for a ''big day of mobilization'' on Jan. 29. Even the head of the less militant CFDT union, Francois Chereque, suggested recently that today's dispersed discontent could still develop into a ''national movement.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michel David, 61, a former worker at the Peugeot plant, says workers now ''have long holidays and a lot of protection.''
 Nadege Taesch, left, who is afraid the economy will worsen, covers cars with Emmanuelle Valland for the plant's one-month close.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PASCAL BASTIEN FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); RECESSION (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); STRIKES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); WORK WEEK (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); CLOSINGS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); PLANT CLOSINGS (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); CHRISTMAS (67%)

COMPANY: PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (86%)

TICKER: UG (PAR) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (86%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (99%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008



929 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S ON TODAY

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
6 A.M. (TCM) ANDY HARDY MARATHONMickey Rooney comes out to play in this all-day marathon of Hardy family misadventures, starting with ''Judge Hardy's Children'' (1938) (above, with Mr. Rooney, right, Cecilia Parker and Lewis Stone), in which Andy and his clan move to Washington, and Andy lands in hot water with a diplomat's daughter (Jacqueline Laurent). Then it's ''Out West With the Hardys'' (1938) at 7:30; ''You're Only Young Once'' (1937) at 9; ''Andy Hardy Gets Spring Fever'' (1939) at 10:30; ''Judge Hardy and Son'' (1939) at 12:15 p.m.; ''The Hardys Ride High'' (1939) at 2; ''Andy Hardy Meets Debutante'' (1940) at 3:30; and ''The Courtship of Andy Hardy'' (1942) at 5:15. An older and wiser Mr. Rooney discusses his life and career with Robert Osborne in a 1997 ''Private Screenings'' episode at 7. 
 7 A.M. (CBS) THE EARLY SHOW Twyla Tharp is the guest; Katie Lee Joel cooks. 
 7 A.M. (NBC) TODAYKate Winslet and Leonardo DiCaprio discuss rekindling their on-screen romance in ''Revolutionary Road,'' their new film.
 7 P.M. (Sundance) WALK WITH US (2006) As part of an Art Week programming block, this documentary by Wiebke von Carolsfeld delves into the collaborative work of the Canadian artists Janet Cardiff and George Bures Miller, who have won international acclaim for ephemeral, site-specific audiovisual installations that rely on the participation of the viewer. Art Week continues on Saturday with ''Art From the Arctic,'' which follows the British artist and filmmaker David Buckland as he arranges three expeditions to the High Arctic from 2003 to 2005 to raise public awareness of global climate change, and on Sunday with ''Manufactured Landscapes,'' in which the filmmaker Jennifer Baichwal considers the industrial photographs of Edward Burtynsky.
 8:30 P.M. (13), 10 P.M. (49) NOW ON PBS Frank Raiter, a former managing director at Standard & Poor's, discusses the part that credit rating agencies played in the current economic crisis.
 8 P.M. (ABC Family) THE FAMILY MAN (2000) A Wall Street playboy (Nicolas Cage) wakes up on Christmas Day to discover he's stuck in the life he might have lived had he married the college sweetheart (Tea Leoni, left, with Mr. Cage) he left behind on his way to the top. The problem is, that life is in New Jersey. Don Cheadle plays the robber who seems to be at the root of the misplaced-existence problem.
 8 P.M. (Comedy Central) AMERICAN PIE PRESENTS: THE NAKED MILE (2006) In this first half of a randy double bill, Erik Stifler (John White) sets out to live up to the reputation of his wilder ''American Pie'' peers by losing his virginity at a nude race. In ''National Lampoon's Van Wilder'' (2002), at 10, Ryan Reynolds plays the most popular guy on campus -- and a perpetual undergrad turned party planner -- whose wanton ways are exposed by a beautiful college journalist (Tara Reid).
 8 P.M. (Science) COLOSSAL CONSTRUCTION After 15 years of work, the notoriously tough blasting and drilling conditions of the Molleback Zone have foiled the building of the Hallandsas Tunnel in southern Sweden. This episode examines new technology that may help contractors finish the job -- albeit 20 years late and at a cost 10 times greater than the original estimate of 1 billion krona.
 9 P.M. (TLC) WHAT NOT TO WEAR Katherine, a 22-year-old journalism student from Minneapolis, gets some wardrobe editing from Stacy London and Clinton Kelly so that her ''emo'' look won't scare off prospective employers.
 10 P.M. (History) SHADOW FORCE In the Season 1 finale of this documentary series, the private military squad travels to Congo, where rebel units are terrorizing refugees.
 10 P.M. (TLC) SAY YES TO THE DRESS Elise, a Kleinfeld manager, gives an ''easy'' bride to Claudia, right, a consultant whose sales have been tanking. But easy apparently isn't easy enough. At 10:30 Keasha and Claudia deal with a consultant's nightmare: two brides tote along their fiances.
 Midnight (IFC) MIGHTY PEKING MAN (1977) A giant ape in the Himalayas falls under the spell of a plane-crash victim (Evelyn Kraft) clad in an animal-print bikini. Meng Hua Ho directed this Hong Kong-produced sci-fi adventure, inspired by the 1976 remake of ''King Kong'' and re-released in North America in 1999 by Quentin Tarantino; Roger Ebert awarded it three stars out of a possible four. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (86%); FILM (86%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (71%); MOVIE REVIEWS (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); CREDIT BUREAUS (60%); CHRISTMAS (50%); CLIMATE CHANGE (50%)

PERSON: KATE WINSLET (68%); LEONARDO DICAPRIO (50%); NICOLAS CAGE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%); ARCTIC (86%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008



930 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Escapes; HAVENS GULF SHORES AND ORANGE BEACH, ALA.; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: The South's Other Gulf Coast

BYLINE: By JOE SAMUEL STARNES

 BODY:
DEBBIE AND BROCK HATTOX started their hunt for a second home with two conditions. ''He wanted to play golf year-round,'' Mrs. Hattox said, ''and I wanted to be on some type of water.'' 
 The couple were living in Atlanta when they began their search 10 years ago. They visited many spots, including Hilton Head, S.C., where they had lived in the 1970s, and various waterfront sites in Florida. When Mr. Hattox's younger brother suggested Gulf Shores, Ala., Mrs. Hattox turned to the map. ''I didn't realize Alabama had a coastline,'' she said.
 She learned that Alabama does in fact have 32 miles of shoreline, the shortest among the five states that front the Gulf of Mexico. The Hattoxes visited the white beaches of Gulf Shores and Orange Beach next door, studying housing options that included condos and houses that were on the beach, as well as properties inland along golf courses, bays and waterways. 
 This part of the Alabama coast, where the Hattoxes built their second home in 1999, draws a range of part-time residents, including many from Southern states, but also contingents from the Midwest, Canada and California. 
 Development in the area took off in the 1960s and 1970s. After being devastated by Hurricane Frederic in 1979, the coastline rebounded in the '80s and '90s with the growth of beachfront condominium towers and inland golf course developments.
 Hurricane Ivan struck there in 2004, but the region is still growing, especially the condo-centric town of Orange Beach, where two towers promoted as being hurricane-proof recently opened. And two more are being built, despite the national economic downturn. 
 The Scene
 When Mr. Hattox, a former chief executive of National Service Industries in Atlanta, retired in 2003, the couple moved full-time to the 6,000-square-foot, five-bedroom house in Gulf Shores that they built for $1.2 million. It overlooks a small lake on the Cotton Creek golf course in the Craft Farms development. 
 Mr. Hattox generally plays golf every other day, and often fishes for redfish and speckled trout in salt water and bass in freshwater lakes, while Mrs. Hattox spends time landscaping the yard. They regularly play bridge in a neighborhood group and are active in the Grace Fellowship Presbyterian Church. ''It's a big church-oriented town,'' Mr. Hattox said. ''And church is a big part of our lives.'' 
 Their house has a second-story room lined with bunks for their 10 grandchildren. Mrs. Hattox often takes her grandkids for a day on the beach, even in the tourist-heavy summer. ''There's so much beach that everyone spreads out,'' she said. 
 The region has wider and more open beach than most coastal communities. The 6,150-acre Gulf State Park sits between Gulf Shores and Orange Beach, providing two miles of uninhabited public beach, wavy with sand dunes and wild sea oats. On the western edge of Gulf Shores is Bon Secour National Wildlife Refuge, a 7,000-acre preserve. 
 ''You can go out there and walk for miles and never see another living soul,'' said Wade Ward, a retired Gulf Shores developer who is president of the George C. Meyer Foundation, a trust that has donated more than a thousand acres for preservation and public beaches. 
 There are plenty of shops and restaurants. Lucy Anne Buffett, Jimmy Buffett's sister, owns Lulu's, a restaurant on the Intracoastal Waterway in Gulf Shores. One menu item is the Cheeseburger in Paradise for $8.95. In Orange Beach, there is the Wharf, a new development that mixes condos, stores and restaurants, and includes a Ferris wheel and an outdoor amphitheater. 
 There are seven golf courses in the two towns, and another nine within a 30-minute drive. Harold Morgan, a native of Birmingham, Ala., who moved to Gulf Shores with his wife from Atlanta in 2005, plays golf nearly every day. The coolest month is January, when the average high is about 59 degrees. ''We probably have 15 days of the year that you have to wear a jacket,'' he said.
 Pros
 The Gulf and the beach. And property taxes are lower than in Florida, said Hollis Messer of Ono Realty. For example, he said, a $1 million owner-occupied home on Ono Island, an unincorporated six-mile-long island just east of Orange Beach, has only $2,800 in annual property taxes. 
 Cons
 Because of the threat of hurricanes, the cost of property insurance is high. The buyers of a $300,000 home that Mr. Messer sold recently paid $4,000 in insurance at the closing. ''It's not uncommon to find people paying $10,000 to $12,000 annually,'' he said.
 And hurricane season can also put homeowners on edge when meteorologists start pointing at swirling cloud formations in the Gulf. ''It's always on your mind,'' said Edde Gaylord, a plastics manufacturer's representative from Birmingham, Ala. He and his wife own a condo in the Seaside Beach and Racquet Club in Orange Beach that suffered serious damage during Hurricane Ivan. ''Once you've experience one, you always start tracking them.'' 
 The Real Estate Market
 Although Hurricane Katrina brought only relatively minor damage to the Alabama shoreline in 2005, real estate agents said that Katrina and its aftermath, and the damage from Hurricane Ivan a year earlier, have dampened buyers' enthusiasm for the region. And with rising insurance costs and the national housing market slump, agents estimate that prices for houses and condos are down as much as 20 to 50 percent from peak times.
 Bob Malone, a co-owner of ERA Class.Com in Gulf Shores, said one waterfront home that sold for $1.15 million in July 2005 was listed this year for $900,000 but has dropped all the way to $519,000 as the seller faced the possibility of foreclosure proceedings. 
 Citing statistics from the Baldwin County Association of Realtors, Mr. Malone said 680 condos have sold this year through early December at an average price of $350,576, down from 1,517 at an average price of $483,383 in 2006. And 231 homes have sold for an average price of $396,148, down from 296 at an average of $438,572 in 2006. 
 The threat of hurricanes has also made the construction of condominium towers a major selling point in the post-Katrina market. ''See that wall?'' said Gene Brett, a founder of Brett/Robinson, a developer and manager of 18 condo towers, smacking his hand recently against the two-foot interior wall of the new 25-story Phoenix West tower in Orange Beach. ''It is solid concrete, one of the heaviest walls in existence.'' Three-bedroom units at Phoenix West overlooking the Gulf start at $697,500. 
 Nearby, the Turquoise Place, a 24-story shimmering glass tower whose builders also boast of its fortress-like qualities, opened in July. Units start at $1.25 million, and penthouses start at $3 million. A companion 30-story tower next door is under construction. 
 Many condo owners in the Gulf Shores area also rent out their units. Mr. Gaylord said his condo is ''booked solid during the summer'' and usually for a month in the winter. ''I really don't like it,'' he said, ''but it makes the payment.''
 LAY OF THE LAND
 POPULATION Gulf Shores, 8,814, and Orange Beach, 5,519, according to 2006 Census Bureau estimates. 
 SIZE Gulf Shores, 31 square miles. Orange Beach, 13 square miles.
 WHERE The towns are on the Gulf of Mexico in southwest Alabama, about 50 miles southeast of Mobile, Ala., and 35 miles west of Pensacola, Fla.
 WHO'S BUYING Many come from within 500 miles, primarily Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Tennessee and Georgia, but there are also Midwesterners and Canadians. 
 WHILE YOU'RE LOOKING The Best Western on the Beach (337 East Beach Boulevard, Gulf Shores, (251) 948-2711; www.bestwestern.com) has rooms starting at $60 a night during the winter months.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ON THE WATER: The marina at the Wharf, a development of condos, stores and restaurants in Orange Beach, Ala. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARY JOBE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP Map details area of Mobile. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); HURRICANES (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (89%); FISHES (84%); CHILDREN (78%); LAKES (76%); TROPICAL STORMS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); RIVERS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); NATURAL DISASTERS (65%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: GULF SHORES RESOURCES LTD (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (92%); MOBILE, AL, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008



931 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'LE CIRQUE: A TABLE IN HEAVEN'; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Celebrities at the Tables And Drama in the Kitchen

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

 BODY:
You would think that with the proliferation of cooking programs and life-in-a-restaurant reality shows, ''Le Cirque: A Table in Heaven,'' a new documentary about that high-toned Manhattan restaurant, would have no chance of holding your interest. ''More close-ups of appetizers and shouting matches in steamy kitchens?,'' you might be saying. ''Um, check please.'' 
 But that's only because you haven't met the Maccioni family, the dysfunctional yet productive heart and soul of the operation. The film, to have its premiere on Monday on HBO, is full of delightful moments in which the patriarch, Sirio Maccioni, and his three sons (Mario, Marco and Mauro) seem as if they could start slugging one another at any moment. These people appear to be absolutely miserable, and yet they do their jobs with admirable skill. It makes for great theater.
 The filmmaker, Andrew Rossi, was given terrific access and catches the Maccionis arguing and griping in their homes, in conference rooms, even in a McDonald's. There is more than the usual amount of restaurant-related stress in the air: The film documents Le Cirque's move from the Palace Hotel to a new, multimillion-dollar site in the Bloomberg Tower on East 58th Street. It is a major gamble, an attempt to re-energize a restaurant whose celebrity-studded glory days were in the last century.
 Sirio Maccioni is a delight to watch as he tries to cling to old ways (he commiserates with people like Joan Collins and Henry A. Kissinger), while his sons push for change. At a tasting at which his chef shows off some of the new menu possibilities, he is aggressively unimpressed. 
 ''Everything tastes the same,'' he says. Then, after another sample, ''This is not a soup, for the love of God.''
 But Mr. Rossi smartly breaks up the bickering with snippets of historical perspective, telling the story of how Mr. Maccioni immigrated from Italy and rose to become one of New York's best-known restaurant personalities. When he's not screaming at his family and employees, he's a genial guide to his own life.
 The film begins to feel contrived only in the final third, when Mr. Rossi banks everything on whether the new restaurant is going to be reviewed favorably by this newspaper. Yes, it's an effective way to inject some dramatic tension -- how many of those precious stars will The New York Times award? -- but it feels as anachronistic as some of Mr. Maccioni's restaurateuring methods. In these days of blogs and travel guides and e-mail-blasting publicists, no single review has the power to bring down an entire enterprise. The film never does say how the new Cirque fared with other reviewers. 
 And of course the film stops before the recent economic calamity. There's another documentary to be made about whether luxury restaurants like this one can still sell their illusions now that so many bubbles have burst.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sirio Maccioni and his family are the heart and soul behind the restaurant Le Cirque.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HBO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); CELEBRITIES (86%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); HISTORY (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); MEN (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: Le Cirque: A Table in Heaven (Movie)>; Le Cirque: A Table in Heaven (Movie)>

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008



932 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Escapes; RITUALS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Dreaming of Rome -- One of Them, Anyway

BYLINE: By ALYSE MYERS

 BODY:
IT always starts as a craving: our yearning to go someplace new or the anticipation of revisiting a place we love. 
 Since we've been married, my husband, Marc, and I have tried to take a European vacation every year in the late fall or early winter. For us, there's something about Europe during that time of year, when the light is gray and brooding and the city we've chosen feels like it's ours alone. That time of year is when the food tastes better, and there are no lines for anything. 
 This year, we craved Rome. We kept talking about the coffee granita with the fresh whipped cream in the coffee bar a few steps from the Pantheon, the fragrant spaghetti al limone and the cacio e pepe at our favorite trattoria in Trastevere, and the smell of roasting chestnuts near the Spanish Steps. And we wanted to go back with our 19-year-old daughter Olivia, the just-declared art history major, to see if Rome would be the right city for her during her junior year abroad. 
 But then the stock market and the economy began to slide, and with a looming college tuition bill and the realization that the world was changing dramatically, we decided that Rome wasn't going to be prudent this year. Rome, we comforted ourselves, would be there for a while, and we decided it would be better to go when we wouldn't be worrying the entire time about the money we were spending, or what was happening back home with our 401(k)s.
 Then in late summer while driving Olivia back to her college in upstate New York, we used the car time to debate where to go on vacation instead. A cheaper vacation, one closer to home, is what we decided. A place we could visit by car. And that's when I saw the highway sign:
 Rome, it said.
 I pointed. My husband glanced at the sign. He didn't understand.
 ''That's it,'' I told him. ''Rome. If we can't have the Italian Rome, we're going to go to the New York Rome.''
 ''Oh, no,'' he said, shaking his head.
 ''Oh, yes,'' I said. ''Honey, we're going to have our Roman holiday after all.''
 I knew I wouldn't find an Access Guide for Rome, N.Y., so I settled for the two next best things: the official Rome, N.Y., Web site and Jocelyn, my daughter's college friend. A born and bred New York Roman, her family has lived in the city since 1926.
 I learned that Rome, N.Y., was named for the Eternal City in 1870 during a classical naming kick, that it was a fierce battleground during the American Revolution and that it is where the Erie Canal was begun on July 4, 1817. I also learned that in 1880, a wave of Italian immigrants settled in Rome and that today over 30 percent of the people who live there are of Italian descent.
 That was all I needed. I decided I didn't want to do any more research. I knew in my gut that we would somehow find a little taste of Rome, Italy, in Rome, N.Y. We agreed we'd go for a day or two when we drove up to visit Olivia in November. 
 The drive from the Upper West Side of Manhattan took five hours -- less time than a nonstop flight from Kennedy Airport to Rome's Leonardo da Vinci Airport. During the drive, I thought of our first trip to Rome, the first one, the year after we were married. Using the map we had picked up at the airport rental counter in Milan, we managed to miss the right exit four times until my husband noticed I was holding the map the wrong way. So I was thrilled when we found this Rome on the first try.
 But as soon as we drove into the city that cheerfully calls itself ''the Center of It All,'' I realized I had made a mistake. The first thing we saw was a big reconstructed fort -- the colonial-era Fort Stanwix -- hardly a substitute for the Colosseum. And as we looked for Turin Road, which would lead to our hotel, I spotted a Little Caesars. 
 What was I thinking? 
 It was at that moment I decided to forgo our Roman hopes and whatever romantic visions we had and just enjoy the town for what it was. As soon as we checked into our hotel, we headed off to eat chicken riggies, a central New York specialty that combines sweet peppers, mushrooms, onions, black olives and chicken with rigatoni pasta in a creamy wine sauce. I knew it wouldn't compare to polla alla Romana -- a dish of braised chicken with tomatoes and rosemary we love -- and it didn't. Watching the waitress deliver two massive bowls of riggies to the next booth, I decided one bowl would be more than enough for the two of us. And I was right. 
 After lunch we found a nice cafe, Spesso's, and remembered a cafe in the Campo de'Fiori, where we sat for hours and ate warm sfogliatelle and other dolci. We reminisced about long walks along the Via Veneto in the evening. As the sun set, the realization that there wasn't much to do sent us back to our hotel -- and HBO.
 THE next morning, after coffee at Dunkin' Donuts, we went off to visit St. Peter's Church, a beautiful Greco-Roman building built in the 1890s, and the Erie Canal Village. Not much Italy or Rome in either place, so we decided it was time to drive into Little Italy. But as soon as we turned on to East Dominick Street, where the district officially begins, it was clear the long strip of nondescript stores was hardly the dense, mean streets of Martin Scorsese's Little Italy. 
 Now ready to get on our way to see our daughter, we finally saw salvation: Gualtieri's Italian Market, run, we later learned, by the great-grandson of the original owner, who arrived in Rome in 1902. 
 As soon as we entered, I knew that we had finally found the little bit of Roma we needed. Greeted by a CD of Andrea Bocelli singing ''Con Te Partiro'' and surrounded by the intoxicating smell of provolone and salamis, we watched as a steady stream of Old World customers bought box after box of ''tomato pie'' -- brought in each day from Napoli's in Utica nearby. Told that the pie's 15 rectangular slices of baked pizza dough covered with thick tomato sauce and a sprinkling of grated Romano cheese could be eaten cold, we polished off more than half the box as we sat in our car, laughing about what I had expected when I planned this trip -- and what we found, an upstate town that didn't pretend to be more than it was. 
 To his credit, my husband didn't offer up the deserved ''I told you so'' -- just agreed, of course, that there was no place like Rome. The other one, that is.
 Stuffed, we closed the pizza box and decided we would bring the few leftover slices to Olivia as a souvenir of our trip. 
 Driving on the road to her college -- our car now heavily scented with garlic and tomato sauce and cheese -- we started talking about our next trip, possibly this spring. And as we approached a highway sign, my husband and I both fell silent, each hoping the other wouldn't notice what the sign said: Paris.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RON CHAPPLE STOCK/CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (75%); TUITION FEES (71%); HISTORY (52%); ART HISTORY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (90%); EUROPE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008



933 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Power Plays Unsettle Iraq

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN; Riyadh Muhammed and Tareq Maher contributed reporting from Baghdad.

 BODY:
With provincial elections scheduled for the end of January, Iraq appears to be plagued by political troubles that seem closer to Shakespearean drama than to nascent democracy. 
 There is talk of a coup to oust the prime minister. The speaker of the Parliament has abruptly resigned, making angry accusations on his way out the door. And there have been sweeping arrests of people believed to be conspiring against the government, both in Baghdad and Diyala Province. 
 Beneath the swirl of accusations and rumors is a power play in which different factions within the government -- and some outside it -- are struggling to gain ground as American influence in the country wanes and elections approach that could begin to reshape the political landscape here. 
 The real struggle is for the country's identity: how much the government will be controlled from Baghdad and how much from the provinces, who will hold power and who will have to give it up. 
 The American mantra has been that Iraq remains ''fragile'' -- to use the words of Ambassador Ryan C. Crocker and Gen. David H. Petraeus. On the political front that seems especially true. The one source of political unity recently has been frustration with Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, who has been making arrests and using tribes in the provinces to set up personal power bases. His rivals, conscious of Iraq's long history of dictatorship, are crying foul. 
 ''Maliki is monopolizing all the political, security and economic decisions,'' said Omar Abdul Sattar, a Sunni member of Parliament. He listed political parties that he said were turning against the prime minister, including a powerful Shiite party, the Islamic Supreme Council of Iraq, which is fighting Mr. Maliki's drive to centralize power in Baghdad and pushing to give more to the provinces -- where the party has important power bases, particularly in the south. ''It's simply the story of the transformation from a democratic prime minister into a dictator,'' he said.
 Fresh in people's minds is the recent detention of 24 employees of the Ministry of Interior in Baghdad, and possibly more from other ministries, who, according to some reports, were accused of plotting a coup. Mr. Maliki's office vehemently denied that that was the reason for the detention. But the detentions of at least some of the 24 were politically motivated, according to several senior Iraqi government officials.
 In Diyala Province, about 50 people were detained three weeks ago during a rally protesting the detention of a local Sunni political leader. Ten were members of the Iraqi Islamic Party, a leading Sunni party that Shiite parties in Diyala suspect of having some links to Sunni insurgents and would like to hobble. 
 Equally controversial is Mr. Maliki's project to form tribal councils that have a direct relationship with his office and are paid from his budget. The groups, known as support councils, are being created both in predominantly Shiite and predominantly Sunni areas. Their mandate is vague, but conversations with members suggest that they are a way to bring powerful tribes into Mr. Maliki's political orbit so that he has a local power base. Mr. Maliki's Dawa Party is not particularly influential in the provinces, unlike the parties of some of his rivals.
 Deep resentment at these attempts to bolster his power and especially his exclusion of all but a small inner circle from decision making is prompting serious discussion of forcing Mr. Maliki out by holding a no-confidence vote in Parliament. A no-confidence vote removes the prime minister and requires the appointment of a new one. In 2007, an effort to depose him failed, but this time the talk seems more serious. 
 About two weeks ago the leaders of the major political factions in the government met in northern Iraq to discuss Mr. Maliki and whether they could muster the votes to get rid of him, according to high-ranking Iraqi politicians and Western diplomats. ''We have been counting the votes, and we have enough votes to withdraw confidence and nominate a new prime minister,'' said a senior member of the United Iraqi Alliance, a coalition of Shiite parties and independents that forms the largest bloc in Parliament. What they do not have, however, is agreement on who would get the top jobs, which the parties want to nail down before making any moves. 
 The parties' concerns with Mr. Maliki vary. The Sunni parties mostly feel distrusted, slighted and left out of decision making. Many Sunnis remain in detention despite an amnesty law that was supposed to result in the release of thousands from Iraqi jails. The Kurds are furious that despite promises from Mr. Maliki and his government, there has still not been a vote on whether the disputed areas in the north, including Kirkuk, should become part of the Kurdistan region. They are also upset that Mr. Maliki has been rallying Arabs in the north against them, trying to shift the political balance of power. However, if Mr. Maliki agrees to some of their demands -- especially for a referendum on Kirkuk -- they might fare better with him than against him. 
 Among his fellow Shiites there is a more complicated dynamic. Some parties, like the powerful Supreme Council, agree with the Kurds' desire to have strong provincial powers, in part to curtail the power of the central government. But other Shiite groups, like those aligned with the anti-American cleric Moktada al-Sadr, are wary of granting more power to the provinces because they have a vision of a national Iraqi identity bolstered by a strong central government. 
 The former speaker of the Parliament, Mahmoud al-Mashhadani, who resigned earlier this week, accused Mr. Maliki's rivals of pushing him out to make a no-confidence vote easier. ''They are hoping that after my resignation, it will be easier for them to dismiss Maliki,'' he said Tuesday. 
 A vote of no confidence, however, would not be a coup; it would in fact represent a democratic, orderly way to change the government. But unless there is consensus about a successor, the government could drift for months as it did after the elections in 2005, when there were several months of discussions about who would become prime minister, and in 2006, when the previous prime minister, Ibrahim al-Jaafari, was removed. 
 There is another problem: the very qualities that lawmakers resent in Mr. Maliki -- strong-armed tactics combined with efforts to reach out to select local constituencies -- have enhanced his profile on the Iraqi street. The question is, will they do better by sticking with him or forcing him out? 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, center, during a November celebration in Baghdad, is seen by some as monopolizing power.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOAO SILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); COUPS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); CONSPIRACY (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); RELIGION (69%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (65%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (89%); DAVID PETRAEUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008



934 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING ECONOMIC NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: Policy Maker In Japan Urges More Action

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The Bank of Japan should consider ways to influence longer-term interest rates and corporate debt products if more easing steps are needed, a policy board member, Hidetoshi Kamezaki, said. In one of the boldest comments yet by a Bank of Japan board member on unorthodox policy measures, Mr. Kamezaki also said the bank should study to what extent it could take on risk assets like corporate bonds and shares. Mr. Kamezaki also said he expected the world economy to stagnate more in months to come, adding that the central bank would use all possible means to ensure market stability. His comments came less than a week after the central bank cut interest rates to 0.10 percent and adopted measures like increasing its buying of Japanese government bonds and temporarily purchasing commercial paper outright. Unlike the Federal Reserve in the United States, which has taken unorthodox measures and more than doubled its balance sheet in just a few months, the Bank of Japan has been cautious about transcending its traditional role as provider of liquidity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORPORATE BONDS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); BONDS (88%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (90%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008



935 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Barack Be Good

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
David Brooks is off today.

 BODY:
Times have changed. In 1996, President Bill Clinton, under siege from the right, declared that ''the era of big government is over.'' But President-elect Barack Obama, riding a wave of revulsion over what conservatism has wrought, has said that he wants to ''make government cool again.''
 Before Mr. Obama can make government cool, however, he has to make it good. Indeed, he has to be a goo-goo. 
 Goo-goo, in case you're wondering, is a century-old term for ''good government'' types, reformers opposed to corruption and patronage. Franklin Roosevelt was a goo-goo extraordinaire. He simultaneously made government much bigger and much cleaner. Mr. Obama needs to do the same thing.
 Needless to say, the Bush administration offers a spectacular example of non-goo-gooism. But the Bushies didn't have to worry about governing well and honestly. Even when they failed on the job (as they so often did), they could claim that very failure as vindication of their anti-government ideology, a demonstration that the public sector can't do anything right.
 The Obama administration, on the other hand, will find itself in a position very much like that facing the New Deal in the 1930s. 
 Like the New Deal, the incoming administration must greatly expand the role of government to rescue an ailing economy. But also like the New Deal, the Obama team faces political opponents who will seize on any signs of corruption or abuse -- or invent them, if necessary -- in an attempt to discredit the administration's program.
 F.D.R. managed to navigate these treacherous political waters safely, greatly improving government's reputation even as he vastly expanded it. As a study recently published by the National Bureau of Economic Research puts it, ''Before 1932, the administration of public relief was widely regarded as politically corrupt,'' and the New Deal's huge relief programs ''offered an opportunity for corruption unique in the nation's history.'' Yet ''by 1940, charges of corruption and political manipulation had diminished considerably.'' 
 How did F.D.R. manage to make big government so clean?
 A large part of the answer is that oversight was built into New Deal programs from the beginning. The Works Progress Administration, in particular, had a powerful, independent ''division of progress investigation'' devoted to investigating complaints of fraud. This division was so diligent that in 1940, when a Congressional subcommittee investigated the W.P.A., it couldn't find a single serious irregularity that the division had missed.
 F.D.R. also made sure that Congress didn't stuff stimulus legislation with pork: there were no earmarks in the legislation that provided funding for the W.P.A. and other emergency measures.
 Last but not least, F.D.R. built an emotional bond with working Americans, which helped carry his administration through the inevitable setbacks and failures that beset its attempts to fix the economy.
 So what are the lessons for the Obama team?
 First, the administration of the economic recovery plan has to be squeaky clean. Purely economic considerations might suggest cutting a few corners in the interest of getting stimulus moving quickly, but the politics of the situation dictates great care in how money is spent. And enforcement is crucial: inspectors general have to be strong and independent, and whistle-blowers have to be rewarded, not punished as they were in the Bush years. 
 Second, the plan has to be really, truly pork-free. Vice President-elect Joseph Biden recently promised that the plan ''will not become a Christmas tree''; the new administration needs to deliver on that promise.
 Finally, the Obama administration and Democrats in general need to do everything they can to build an F.D.R.-like bond with the public. Never mind Mr. Obama's current high standing in the polls based on public hopes that he'll succeed. He needs a solid base of support that will remain even when things aren't going well. 
 And I have to say that Democrats are off to a bad start on that front. The attempted coronation of Caroline Kennedy as senator plays right into 40 years of conservative propaganda denouncing ''liberal elites.'' And surely I wasn't the only person who winced at reports about the luxurious beach house the Obamas have rented, not because there's anything wrong with the first family-elect having a nice vacation, but because symbolism matters, and these weren't the images we should be seeing when millions of Americans are terrified about their finances.
 O.K., these are early days. But that's precisely the point. Fixing the economy is going to take time, and the Obama team needs to be thinking now, when hopes are high, about how to accumulate and preserve enough political capital to see the job through. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); HISTORY (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); CONSERVATISM (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); BILL CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008



936 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE RECKONING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2798 words

HEADLINE: Dollar Shift: Chinese Pockets Filled as Americans' Emptied

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; David Barboza contributed reporting from Shanghai, and Keith Bradsher from Hong Kong.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
''Usually it's the rich country lending to the poor. This time, it's the poor country lending to the rich.''
 -- Niall Ferguson
 In March 2005, a low-key Princeton economist who had become a Federal Reserve governor coined a novel theory to explain the growing tendency of Americans to borrow from foreigners, particularly the Chinese, to finance their heavy spending.
 The problem, he said, was not that Americans spend too much, but that foreigners save too much. The Chinese have piled up so much excess savings that they lend money to the United States at low rates, underwriting American consumption.
 This colossal credit cycle could not last forever, he said. But in a global economy, the transfer of Chinese money to America was a market phenomenon that would take years, even a decade, to work itself out. For now, he said, ''we probably have little choice except to be patient.'' 
 Today, the dependence of the United States on Chinese money looks less benign. And the economist who proposed the theory, Ben S. Bernanke, is dealing with the consequences, having been promoted to chairman of the Fed in 2006, as these cross-border money flows were reaching stratospheric levels.
 In the past decade, China has invested upward of $1 trillion, mostly earnings from manufacturing exports, into American government bonds and government-backed mortgage debt. That has lowered interest rates and helped fuel a historic consumption binge and housing bubble in the United States.
 China, some economists say, lulled American consumers, and their leaders, into complacency about their spendthrift ways.
 ''This was a blinking red light,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, a professor of economics at Harvard and a former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund. ''We should have reacted to it.''
 In hindsight, many economists say, the United States should have recognized that borrowing from abroad for consumption and deficit spending at home was not a formula for economic success. Even as that weakness is becoming more widely recognized, however, the United States is likely to be more addicted than ever to foreign creditors to finance record government spending to revive the broken economy.
 To be sure, there were few ready remedies. Some critics argue that the United States could have pushed Beijing harder to abandon its policy of keeping the value of its currency weak -- a policy that made its exports less expensive and helped turn it into the world's leading manufacturing power. If China had allowed its currency to float according to market demand in the past decade, its export growth probably would have moderated. And it would not have acquired the same vast hoard of dollars to invest abroad.
 Others say the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department should have seen the Chinese lending for what it was: a giant stimulus to the American economy, not unlike interest rate cuts by the Fed. These critics say the Fed under Alan Greenspan contributed to the creation of the housing bubble by leaving interest rates too low for too long, even as Chinese investment further stoked an easy-money economy. The Fed should have cut interest rates less in the middle of this decade, they say, and started raising them sooner, to help reduce speculation in real estate.
 Today, with the wreckage around him, Mr. Bernanke said he regretted that more was not done to regulate financial institutions and mortgage providers, which might have prevented the flood of investment, including that from China, from being so badly used. But the Fed's role in regulation is limited to banks. And stricter regulation by itself would not have been enough, he insisted.
 ''Achieving a better balance of international capital flows early on could have significantly reduced the risks to the financial system,'' Mr. Bernanke said in an interview in his office overlooking the Washington Mall.
 ''However,'' he continued, ''this could only have been done through international cooperation, not by the United States alone. The problem was recognized, but sufficient international cooperation was not forthcoming.'' 
 The inaction was because of a range of factors, political and economic. By the yardsticks that appeared to matter most -- prosperity and growth -- the relationship between China and the United States also seemed to be paying off for both countries. Neither had a strong incentive to break an addiction: China to strong export growth and financial stability; the United States to cheap imports and low-cost foreign loans. 
 In Washington, China was treated as a threat by some people, but mostly because it lured away manufacturing jobs. Others argued that China's heavy lending to this country was risky because Chinese leaders could decide to withdraw money at a moment's notice, creating a panicky run on the dollar. 
 Mr. Bernanke viewed such international investment flows through a different lens. He argued that Chinese invested savings abroad because consumers in China did not have enough confidence to spend. Changing that situation would take years, and did not amount to a pressing problem for the Americans.
 ''The global savings glut story did us a collective disservice,'' said Edwin M. Truman, a former Fed and Treasury official. ''It created the idea that the world was doing it to us and we couldn't do anything about it.''
 But Mr. Bernanke's theory fit the prevailing hands-off, pro-market ideology of recent years. Mr. Greenspan and the Bush administration treated the record American trade deficit and heavy foreign borrowing as an abstract threat, not an urgent problem.
 Mr. Bernanke, after he took charge of the Fed, warned that the imbalances between the countries were growing more serious. By then, however, it was too late to do much about them. And the White House still regarded imbalances as an arcane subject best left to economists.
 By itself, money from China is not a bad thing. As American officials like to note, it speaks to the attractiveness of the United States as a destination for foreign investment. In the 19th century, the United States built its railroads with capital borrowed from the British.
 In the past decade, China arguably enabled an American boom. Low-cost Chinese goods helped keep a lid on inflation, while the flood of Chinese investment helped the government finance mortgages and a public debt of close to $11 trillion.
 But Americans did not use the lower-cost money afforded by Chinese investment to build a 21st-century equivalent of the railroads. Instead, the government engaged in a costly war in Iraq, and consumers used loose credit to buy sport utility vehicles and larger homes. Banks and investors, eagerly seeking higher interest rates in this easy-money environment, created risky new securities like collateralized debt obligations. 
 ''Nobody wanted to get off this drug,'' said Senator Lindsey Graham, the South Carolina Republican who pushed legislation to punish China by imposing stiff tariffs. ''Their drug was an endless line of customers for made-in-China products. Our drug was the Chinese products and cash.'' 
 Mr. Graham said he understood the addiction: he was speaking by phone from a Wal-Mart store in Anderson, S.C., where he was Christmas shopping in aisles lined with items from China.
 A New Economic Dance
 The United States has been here before. In the 1980s, it ran heavy trade deficits with Japan, which recycled some of its trading profits into American government bonds.
 At that time, the deficits were viewed as a grave threat to America's economic might. Action took the form of a 1985 agreement known as the Plaza Accord. The world's major economies intervened in currency markets to drive down the value of the dollar and drive up the Japanese yen.
 The arrangement did slow the growth of the trade deficit for a time. But economists blamed the sharp revaluation of the Japanese yen for halting Japan's rapid growth. The lesson of the Plaza Accord was not lost on China, which at that time was just emerging as an export power.
 China tied itself even more tightly to the United States than did Japan. In 1995, it devalued its currency and set a firm exchange rate of roughly 8.3 to the dollar, a level that remained fixed for a decade. 
 During the Asian financial crisis of 1997-98, China clung firmly to its currency policy, earning praise from the Clinton administration for helping check the spiral of devaluation sweeping Asia. Its low wages attracted hundreds of billions of dollars in foreign investment.
 By the early part of this decade, the United States was importing huge amounts of Chinese-made goods -- toys, shoes, flat-screen televisions and auto parts -- while selling much less to China in return.
 ''For consumers, this was a net benefit because of the availability of cheaper goods,'' said Laurence H. Meyer, a former Fed governor. ''There's no question that China put downward pressure on inflation rates.''
 But in classical economics, that trade gap could not have persisted for long without bankrupting the American economy. Except that China recycled its trade profits right back into the United States.
 It did so to protect its own interests. China kept its banks under tight state control and its currency on a short leash to ensure financial stability. It required companies and individuals to save in the state-run banking system most foreign currency -- primarily dollars -- that they earned from foreign trade and investment. 
 As foreign trade surged, this hoard of dollars became enormous. In 2000, the reserves were less than $200 billion; today they are about $2 trillion.
 Chinese leaders chose to park the bulk of that in safe securities backed by the American government, including Treasury bonds and the debt of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which had implicit government backing.
 This not only allowed the United States to continue to finance its trade deficit, but, by creating greater demand for United States securities, it also helped push interest rates below where they would otherwise have been. For years, China's government was eager to buy American debt at yields many in the private sector felt were too low.
 This financial and trade embrace between the United States and China grew so tight that Niall Ferguson, a financial historian, has dubbed the two countries Chimerica.
 'Tiptoeing' Around a Partner
 Being attached at the hip was not entirely comfortable for either side, though for widely differing reasons.
 In the United States, more people worried about cheap Chinese goods than cheap Chinese loans. By 2003, China's trade surplus with the United States was ballooning, and lawmakers in Congress were restive. Senator Graham and Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, introduced a bill threatening to impose a 27 percent duty on Chinese goods.
 ''We had a moment where we caught everyone's attention: the White House and China,'' Mr. Graham recalled.
 At the People's Bank of China, the central bank, a consensus was also emerging in late 2004: China should break its tight link to the dollar, which would make its exports more expensive. Yu Yongding, a leading economic adviser, pressed the case. The American trade and budget deficits were not sustainable, he warned. China was wrong to keep its currency artificially depressed and depend too much on selling cheap goods.
 Proponents of revaluation in China argued that the country's currency policies denied the fruits of prosperity to Chinese consumers. Beijing was investing their savings in low-yielding American government securities. And with a weak currency, they said, Chinese could not afford many imported goods.
 The central bank's English-speaking governor, Zhou Xiaochuan, was among those who favored a sizable revaluation.
 But when Beijing acted to amend its currency policy in 2005, under heavy pressure from Congress and the White House, it moved cautiously. The renminbi was allowed to climb only 2 percent. The Communist Party opted for only incremental adjustments to its economic model after a decade of fast growth. Little changed: China's exports kept soaring and investment poured into steel mills and garment factories.
 But American officials eased the pressure. They decided to put more emphasis on urging Chinese consumers to spend more of their savings, which they hoped would eventually bring the two economies into better balance. On a tour of China, John W. Snow, the Treasury secretary at the time, even urged the Chinese to start using credit cards.
 China kicked off its own campaign to encourage domestic consumption, which it hoped would provide a new source. But Chinese save with the same zeal that, until recently, Americans spent. Shorn of the social safety net of the old Communist state, they squirrel away money to pay for hospital visits, housing or retirement. This accounts for the savings glut identified by Mr. Bernanke.
 Privately, Chinese officials confided to visiting Americans that the effort was not achieving much. 
 ''It is sometimes hard to change successful models,'' said Robert B. Zoellick, who negotiated with the Chinese as a deputy secretary of state. ''It is prototypically American to say, 'This worked well, but now you've got to change it.' ''
 In Washington, some critics say too little was done. A former Treasury official, Timothy D. Adams, tried to get the I.M.F. to act as a watchdog for currency manipulation by China, which would have subjected Beijing to more global pressure. 
 Yet when Mr. Snow was succeeded as Treasury secretary by Henry M. Paulson Jr. in 2006, the I.M.F. was sidelined, according to several officials, and Mr. Paulson took command of China policy.
 He was not shy about his credentials. As an investment banker with Goldman Sachs, Mr. Paulson made 70 trips to China. In his office hangs a watercolor depicting the hometown of Zhu Rongji, a forceful former prime minister.
 ''I pushed very hard on currency because I believed it was important for China to get to a market-determined currency,'' Mr. Paulson said in an interview. But he conceded he did not get what he wanted.
 In late 2006, Mr. Paulson invited Mr. Bernanke to accompany him to Beijing. Mr. Bernanke used the occasion to deliver a blunt speech to the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, in which he advised the Chinese to reorient their economy and revalue their currency.
 At the last minute, however, Mr. Bernanke deleted a reference to the exchange rate being an ''effective subsidy'' for Chinese exports, out of fear that it could be used as a pretext for a trade lawsuit against China.
 Critics detected a pattern. They noted that in its twice-yearly reports to Congress about trading partners, the Treasury Department had never branded China a currency manipulator.
 ''We're tiptoeing around, desperately trying not to irritate or offend the Chinese,'' said Thea M. Lee, public policy director of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''But to get concrete results, you have to be confrontational.''
 An Embrace That Won't Let Go
 For China, too, this crisis has been a time of reckoning. Americans are buying fewer Chinese DVD players and microwave ovens. Trade is collapsing, and thousands of workers are losing their jobs. Chinese leaders are terrified of social unrest.
 Having allowed the renminbi to rise a little after 2005, the Chinese government is now under intense pressure domestically to reverse course and depreciate it. China's fortunes remain tethered to those of the United States. And the reverse is equally true.
 In a glassed-in room in a nondescript office building in Washington, the Treasury conducts nearly daily auctions of billions of dollars' worth of government bonds. An old Army helmet sits on a shelf: as a lark, Treasury officials have been known to strap it on while they monitor incoming bids.
 For the past five years, China has been one of the most prolific bidders. It holds $652 billion in Treasury debt, up from $459 billion a year ago. Add in its Fannie Mae bonds and other holdings, and analysts figure China owns $1 of every $10 of America's public debt.
 The Treasury is conducting more auctions than ever to finance its $700 billion bailout of the banks. Still more will be needed to pay for the incoming Obama administration's stimulus package. The United States, economists say, will depend on the Chinese to keep buying that debt, perpetuating the American habit.
 Even so, Mr. Paulson said he viewed the debate over global imbalances as hopelessly academic. He expressed doubt that Mr. Bernanke or anyone else could have solved the problem as it was germinating.
 ''One lesson that I have clearly learned,'' said Mr. Paulson, sitting beneath his Chinese watercolor. ''You don't get dramatic change, or reform, or action unless there is a crisis.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 31, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The headline on a front-page article on Friday, on the role in the housing bubble and consumption binge in the United States played by investment from China, could have been misunderstood. The article described how the United States has been tolerating a huge trade deficit with China while Chinese authorities have invested huge sums in American government securities from savings partly created by the inflow of American dollars. ''Dollar Shift: Chinese Pockets Filled as Americans' Emptied'' meant to describe the complications of that situation; it did not mean to imply that China has profited from the weakness of the American economy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY POOL PHOTO BY ELIZABETH DALZIEL)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY GILLES SABRIE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
DIRE WARNINGS: Federal Reserve Board Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, left, and Yu Yongding, top, a leading Chinese economic adviser, said that the American trade and budget deficits were growing more serious. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson Jr., with President Hu Jintao of China, could not allay the problem.(PHOTOGRAPH BY POOL PHOTO BY GETTY IMAGES) CHARTS: Debt Spree: As China's coffers swelled because of its growing trade surplus, it invested heavily in United States government debt, which was also growing. Chart shows Total foreign holdings of Treasury securities
The easy availability of money from foreign investors helped keep interest rates low in the United States. Chart shows 30-year fixed
With so much cheap money available, everyone, particularly consumers, loaded up on debt. Chart shows Total United States debt
As the housing bubble grew, consumers plowed more money into real estate -- and their savings rate plunged. Chart shows Personal savings rate. (Sources: Treasury Department
Bankrate.com
Federal Reserve
 Bureau of Economic Analysis, via Haver Analytics) (pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); PERSONAL DEBT (70%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (69%); HOUSING BUBBLE (69%); BONDS (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (65%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%); HU JINTAO (71%); HENRY PAULSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (57%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008



937 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1787 words

HEADLINE: For Bush, a Rise In Health Clinics Shapes a Legacy

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

DATELINE: NASHVILLE 

 BODY:
Although the number of uninsured and the cost of coverage have ballooned under his watch, President Bush leaves office with a health care legacy in bricks and mortar: he has doubled federal financing for community health centers, enabling the creation or expansion of 1,297 clinics in medically underserved areas. 
 For those in poor urban neighborhoods and isolated rural areas, including Indian reservations, the clinics are often the only dependable providers of basic services like prenatal care, childhood immunizations, asthma treatments, cancer screenings and tests for sexually transmitted diseases.
 As a crucial component of the health safety net, they are lauded as a cost-effective alternative to hospital emergency rooms, where the uninsured and underinsured often seek care. 
 Despite the clinics' unprecedented growth, wide swaths of the country remain without access to affordable primary care. The recession has only magnified the need as hundreds of thousands of Americans have lost their employer-sponsored health insurance along with their jobs.
 In response, Democrats on Capitol Hill are proposing even more significant increases, making the centers a likely feature of any health care deal struck by Congress and the Obama administration. 
 In Nashville, United Neighborhood Health Services, a 32-year-old community health center, has seen its federal financing rise to $4.2 million, from $1.8 million in 2001. That has allowed the organization to add eight clinics to its base of six, and to increase its pool of patients to nearly 25,000 from 10,000.
 Still, says Mary Bufwack, the center's chief executive, the clinics satisfy only a third of the demand in Nashville's pockets of urban poverty and immigrant need. 
 One of the group's recent grants helped open the Southside Family Clinic, which moved last year from a pair of public housing apartments to a gleaming new building on a once derelict corner. 
 As she completed a breathing treatment one recent afternoon, Willie Mai Ridley, a 68-year-old beautician, said she would have sought care for her bronchitis in a hospital emergency room were it not for the new clinic. Instead, she took a short drive, waited 15 minutes without an appointment and left without paying a dime; the clinic would bill her later for her Medicare co-payment of $18.88.
 Ms. Ridley said she appreciated both the dignity and the affordability of her care. ''This place is really very, very important to me,'' she said, ''because you can go and feel like you're being treated like a person and get the same medical care you would get somewhere else and have to pay $200 to $300.'' 
 As governor of Texas, Mr. Bush came to admire the missionary zeal and cost-efficiency of the not-for-profit community health centers, which qualify for federal operating grants by being located in designated underserved areas and treating patients regardless of their ability to pay. He pledged support for the program while campaigning for president in 2000 on a platform of ''compassionate conservatism.''
 In Mr. Bush's first year in office, he proposed to open or expand 1,200 clinics over five years (mission accomplished) and to double the number of patients served (the increase has ended up closer to 60 percent). With the health centers now serving more than 16 million patients at 7,354 sites, the expansion has been the largest since the program's origins in President Lyndon B. Johnson's war on poverty, federal officials said.
 ''They're an integral part of a health care system because they provide care for the low-income, for the newly arrived, and they take the pressure off of our hospital emergency rooms,'' Mr. Bush said last year while touring a clinic in Omaha. 
 With federal encouragement, the centers have made a major push this decade to expand dental and mental health services, open on-site pharmacies, extend hours to nights and weekends and accommodate recent immigrants -- legal and otherwise -- by employing bilingual staff. More than a third of patients are now Hispanic, according to the National Association of Community Health Centers. 
 The centers now serve one of every three people who live in poverty and one of every eight without insurance. But a study released in August by the Government Accountability Office found that 43 percent of the country's medically underserved areas lack a health center site. The National Association of Community Health Centers and the American Academy of Family Physicians estimated last year that 56 million people were ''medically disenfranchised'' because they lived in areas with inadequate primary care. 
 President-elect Barack Obama has said little about how the centers may fit into his plans to remake American health care. But he was a sponsor of a Senate bill in August that would quadruple federal spending on the program -- to $8 billion from $2.1 billion -- and increase incentives for medical students to choose primary care. His wife, Michelle, worked closely with health centers in Chicago as vice president for community and external relations at the University of Chicago Medical Center.
 And Mr. Obama's choice to become secretary of health and human services, former Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, argues in his recent book on health care that financing should be increased, describing the health centers as ''a godsend.'' 
 The federal program, which was first championed in Congress by Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, has earned considerable bipartisan support. Leading advocates, like Senator Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont, and Representative James E. Clyburn, Democrat of South Carolina, the House majority whip, argue that any success Mr. Obama has in reducing the number of uninsured will be meaningless if the newly insured cannot find medical homes. In Massachusetts, health centers have seen increased demand since the state began mandating health coverage two years ago.
 At $8 billion, the Senate measure may be considered a relative bargain compared with the more than $100 billion needed for Mr. Obama's proposal to subsidize coverage for the uninsured. If his plan runs into fiscal obstacles, a vast expansion of community health centers may again serve as a stopgap while universal coverage waits for flusher times.
 Recent job losses, meanwhile, are stoking demand for the clinics' services, often from first-time users. The United Neighborhood Health Services clinics in Nashville have seen a 35 percent increase in patients this year, with much of the growth from the newly jobless. 
 ''I'm seeing a lot of professionals that no longer have their insurance or they're laid off from their jobs,'' said Dr. Marshelya D. Wilson, a physician at the center's Cayce clinic. ''So they come here and get their health care.'' 
 Studies have generally shown that the health centers -- which must be governed by patient-dominated boards -- are effective at reducing racial and ethnic disparities in medical treatment and save substantial sums by keeping patients out of hospitals. Their trade association estimates that they save the health care system $17.6 billion a year, and that an equivalent amount could be saved if avoidable emergency room visits were diverted to clinics. Some centers, including here in Nashville, have brokered agreements with hospitals to do exactly that.
 Many centers are finding that federal support is not keeping pace with the growing cost of treating the uninsured. Government grants now account for 19 percent of community health center revenues, compared with 22 percent in 2001, according to the Health Resources and Services Administration, which oversees the program. The largest revenue sources are public insurance plans like Medicaid, Medicare and the State Children's Health Insurance Program, making the centers vulnerable to government belt-tightening.
 The centers are known for their efficiency. Though United Neighborhood Health Services has more than doubled in size this decade, Ms. Bufwack, its chief executive, manages to run five neighborhood clinics, five school clinics, a homeless clinic, two mobile clinics and a rural clinic, with 24,391 patients, on a budget of $8.1 million. Starting pay for her doctors is $120,000. Patients are charged on an income-based sliding scale, and the uninsured are expected to pay at least $20 for an office visit. One clinic is housed in a double-wide trailer.
 Because of a nationwide shortage of primary care physicians, the clinics rely on federal programs like the National Health Service Corps that entice medical students with grants and loan write-offs in exchange for agreements to practice as generalists in underserved areas. Of the 16 doctors working for United Neighborhood, seven are current or former participants.
 Dr. LaTonya D. Knott, 37, who treated Ms. Ridley for her bronchitis, is among them. Born to a 15-year-old mother in south Nashville, she herself had been a regular childhood patient at one of the center's clinics. After graduating as her high school's valedictorian, she went to college on scholarships and then to medical school on government grants, with an obligation to serve for two years.
 She said she now felt a responsibility to be a role model. ''I do a whole lot of social work,'' she said, noting that it was not uncommon for children to drop by the clinic for help with homework, or for a peanut butter sandwich. ''It's not just that we provide the medical care. I'm trying to provide you with a future.''
 Despite such commitment, national staffing shortages have reinforced concerns about the quality of care at health centers, notably the management of chronic diseases. This year, the government started collecting data at the centers on performance measures like cervical cancer screening and diabetes control.
 ''The question is not just, 'Are you going to have more community health centers?' '' said Dr. H. Jack Geiger, founder of the health centers movement and a professor emeritus at the City University of New York. ''It's, 'Are you going to have adequate services?' ''
 A deeper frustration for health centers concerns their difficulty in securing follow-up appointments with specialists for patients who are uninsured or have Medicaid. All too often, said Ms. Bufwack, medical care ends at the clinic door, reinforcing the need to expand both primary care and health insurance coverage.
 ''That's when our doctors feel they're practicing third world medicine,'' she said. ''You will die if you have cancer or a heart condition or bad asthma or horrible diabetes. If you need a specialist and specialty tests and specialty meds and specialty surgery, those things are totally out of your reach.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. LaTonya D. Knott, right, treating Willie Mai Ridley.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Maria Flores, center, who is pregnant, came to the Waverly Belmont clinic in Nashville for care for herself and for her 11-month-old daughter, Jausari Patron.
Charmissa Johnson with patient files at the Southside Family Clinic, which last year moved into a new building in Nashville.
 Dr. Keith E. Junior, medical director at the Cayce projects facility in Nashville, examining Toyashika Polk last month.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A24) CHART: Providing Care: In 2007, 18 million patients were served by the nation's 7,000 community health centers. Below shows how these patients compare demographically to the U.S. population as a whole.(Source: National Association of Community Health Centers) Chart details Health center population and U.S. population. (pg. A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (92%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (89%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); MEDICARE (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); CANCER (75%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); CITIES (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (70%); ASTHMA (70%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (56%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (94%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008



938 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: To Rebuild the Economy, People Are the Best Investment

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Louis Uchitelle is absolutely correct that President-elect Barack Obama's spending plan may fail -- or worse, backfire (''Maybe It Can't: A Trap in Obama's Spending Plan,'' Week in Review, Dec. 21). Spending on infrastructure, even green infrastructure, is a relatively slow, low-return investment. To rebuild the economy right now, we need fast, high-return investment, public and private. 
 First, we need public investment in people: health care to keep us productive; education to train us for new jobs or upgrade basic skills; and extended unemployment insurance.
 Second, we must unburden the sector that provides the most employment and the highest and fastest return on investment: small business. 
 Here is how: Rebate the payroll (Social Security) tax on low-wage earners. This tax has become a major killer of small-business jobs. Then reduce deficit spending. Treasury runs a deficit by selling bonds; the more that banks can stock up on safe government bonds, the more they will cut off relatively risky (but high-return) small business. But how to reduce deficit spending? Start by killing military pork. 
 Mary M. Cleveland New York, Dec. 21, 2008
 The writer is an adjunct professor of economics at Columbia University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (85%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BONDS (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); SECURITIES TRADING (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008



939 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Getting Immigration Right

 BODY:
It's way too early to tell whether the United States under President-elect Barack Obama will restore realism, sanity and lawfulness to its immigration system. But it's never too early to hope, and the stars seem to be lining up, at least among his cabinet nominees. 
 If Mr. Obama's team is confirmed, the country will have a homeland security secretary, Janet Napolitano of Arizona, and a commerce secretary, Bill Richardson of New Mexico, who understand the border region and share a well-informed disdain for foolish, inadequate enforcement schemes like the Bush administration's border fence. And it will have a labor secretary, Hilda Solis of California, who, as a state senator and congresswoman, has built a reputation as a staunch defender of immigrants and workers. 
 The confluence of immigrants and labor is exactly what this country -- particularly, and disastrously, the Bush administration -- has not been able to figure out.
 In simplest terms, what Ms. Solis and Mr. Obama seem to know in their gut is this: If you uphold workers' rights, even for those here illegally, you uphold them for all working Americans. If you ignore and undercut the rights of illegal immigrants, you encourage the exploitation that erodes working conditions and job security everywhere. In a time of economic darkness, the stability and dignity of the work force are especially vital. 
 This is why it is so important to reverse the Bush administration's immigration tactics, which for years have attacked the problem upside down and backward. To appease Republican nativists, it lavished scarce resources solely on hunting down and punishing illegal immigrants. Its campaign of raids, detentions and border fencing was a moral failure. Among other things, it terrorized and broke apart families and led to some gruesome deaths in shoddy prisons. It mocked the American tradition of welcoming and assimilating immigrant workers.
 But it also was a strategic failure because it did little or nothing to stem the illegal tide while creating the very conditions under which the off-the-books economy can thrive. Illegal immigrant workers are deterred from forming unions. And without a path to legalization and under the threat of a relentless enforcement-only regime, they cannot assert their rights. 
 It's a system that the grubbiest and shabbiest industries and business owners -- think of the hellish slaughterhouse in Postville, Iowa, running with immigrant child labor -- could not have designed better. Through it all, the Bush administration's response to criticism has been ever more enforcement.
 Ms. Solis, whose father immigrated from Mexico and was a Teamsters shop steward and whose mother, from Nicaragua, worked on an assembly line, promises a clean break from that past. She lives in El Monte, a Los Angeles suburb where two compelling stories of immigrants and labor have emerged in recent years. 
 The first was tragic: a notorious 1995 raid at a sweatshop where Thai workers were kept in slave conditions behind barbed wire. The second is less well-known but far more encouraging: a present-day hiring site for day laborers at the edge of a Home Depot parking lot. The Latino men who gather in that safe, well-run space uphold an informal minimum wage and protect one another from abusive contractors and wage thieves. It's good for the store, its customers and the workers. 
 Ms. Solis is a defender of such sites and has opposed efforts in other cities to enact ordinances to disperse day laborers and force them underground. She understands that if day laborers end up in our suburbs, it is better to give them safe places to gather rather than allow an uncontrolled job bazaar to drive wages and working conditions down. 
 That's a bit of local wisdom that deserves to take root in the federal government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); LABOR FORCE (73%); FAMILY (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); CHILD LABOR (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILDA L SOLIS (78%); JANET NAPOLITANO (58%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008



940 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Curbing Credit Card Predators

 BODY:
Federal regulators are finally doing something about the unfair and deceptive credit card practices that have helped to keep millions of Americans permanently mired in debt. New rules issued last week will limit or prohibit some of the most blatant abuses. But the next Congress must do more if Americans are to get fair, clear credit card rules that allow them to make informed spending decisions. 
 In recent years, credit card companies have stealthily adopted a variety of billing strategies that are designed to maximize penalties and fees, meanwhile driving up interest rates to 25 percent or higher. The companies hook cardholders with attractively low teaser interest rates -- while reserving the right to raise those rates at any time and for any reason. 
 To make matters worse, credit card contracts are often 30 pages long and written in language even lawyers find hard to understand. 
 The billing strategies are designed to lure cardholders into the debt trap and keep them there. Under a strategy known as universal default, for example, rates can be raised -- even retroactively, on old purchases -- when cardholders fail to pay bills not related to the credit card account. Congress, which is considering several bills to curtail unfairness, should outlaw this. 
 The new rules don't forbid universal default. But they would at least prohibit retroactive rate increases, unless the cardholder is more than 30 days late on the credit card payment itself. Another change announced last week prohibits the widespread practice of charging cardholders interest on debts they have already paid. 
 Another important change limits the usurious fees that companies often charge to cardholders simply because they have poor credit histories. These fees, consumer advocates say, can amount to half of the credit these cardholders are offered.
 The new rules do not take effect until 2010. That's not soon enough. Congress could make these and other changes immediate by promptly passing a credit card reform package. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (91%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2008



941 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; KINGSBRIDGE JOURNAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: No Sweets When Striking the Cookie Factory

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
There were no Christmas cookies for Alonso Gomez this year. Instead, he was back outside the cookie factory where he has worked for 20 years, striking with 134 of his colleagues.
 Mr. Gomez has been going to the same corner every day for more than four months, protesting what he said were efforts by the owners of the Stella D'Oro Biscuit Factory to cut wages, pensions and holiday and vacation time.
 This week, under the rumbling of the elevated No. 1 train at 238th Street and Broadway, they repeated the refrain they have been chanting since they walked out on Aug. 13: ''No contract, no cookies.'' 
 On bitterly cold days, the workers dance or take turns warming up in an idling car. For the holidays, they sang Christmas songs and hanged a wreath on a fence on the sidewalk. 
 As replacement workers came and went on Tuesday, about a dozen strikers shouted ''Scab!'' 
 Behind them, the green, white and red company flag flew above the factory, at 184 West 237th Street in the Kingsbridge section of the Bronx. 
 Well before the Magnolia Bakery drew crowds of high-heeled young women to Bleecker Street in Greenwich Village, Stella D'Oro cookies were a significant part of New York baking. 
 The company was born in 1932 when Joseph Kresivich, a native of Trieste, Italy, began using Italian baking methods to make cookies, biscuits, biscotti and breadsticks.
 For years, the company was family owned, as was a restaurant next door, which eventually closed.
 In 1992, Nabisco acquired the company, and in 2000, Nabisco was bought by Kraft.
 While Italian baking inspired the cookies, the brand also has a devoted following among Jews because its Swiss fudge cookies are made without milk or butter, making them an acceptable dessert for those who follow Jewish dietary guidelines. 
 When Kraft moved to change the recipe to use a milk-infused chocolate in 2002, sales suffered, and the company quickly returned to the original recipe.
 The problem for the workers began in 2006 when Kraft sold Stella D'Oro to a private investing firm, Brynwood Partners.
 The workers, members of the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers, and Grain Millers International Union, say there has been no effort to negotiate in good faith. They accuse Brynwood of having a plan to force them out of their jobs, noting that replacement workers were lined up before they even went on strike.
 ''Never before Brynwood's ownership has the local and its membership been attacked in this way,'' they contend in fliers.
 ''The financiers and speculators have brought the American economy to its knees,'' they wrote. ''The financiers at Brynwood Partners are trying to bring 135 workers to their knees, hiring scabs to do their work. The Stella D'Oro workers are taking a stand against the wrecking of our economy.''
 The management at the factory did not respond to repeated requests for comment. 
 Hendrik J. Hartong Jr., who is listed as the head of Brynwood Partners on the company's Web site, also did not respond to requests for a comment.
 ''They want us to put our money into a 401(k),'' said Mr. Gomez, 54, the shop steward. Having already lost $30,000 in his 401(k) because of the stock market decline, he said he would not have time to work to regain the losses.
 ''I have no choice,'' he said. ''I get old.''
 Another striker, Anabel Garita, 26, said she usually worked on the packing table, grabbing cookies as they passed and packing them in boxes. She was making $18 an hour, but she said the company wanted to cut her wages.
 ''I work the night shift, so I can go to school,'' she said, adding that the company's new rules would make it impossible for her to study for her G.E.D.
 The workers say they are determined to stay on strike until the dispute is resolved. 
 In the meantime, Mr. Gomez said, they will continue to stand outside the factory from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m., six days a week.
 As Christmas Eve drew near, passing drivers honked and shouted encouragement. People stopped by and offered words of support and warm coffee.
 ''This place was like a home for many of these people,'' Mr. Gomez said of the workers and their supporters. ''But investors only care about their money. They don't care about families.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anabel Garita, holding the sign, said changes at Stella D'Oro would keep her from studying and would cut her pay of $18 an hour.
 Stella D'Oro, in the Bronx, was started in 1932 as a familyowned business, but is now owned by an investment firm.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COOKIE & CRACKER MFG (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); BAKERIES (89%); STRIKES (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (86%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); BUTTER MFG (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (68%); RESTAURANTS (64%); ACQUISITIONS (64%); NUTRITION (62%)

COMPANY: MARS INC (85%); STELLA D'ORO BISCUIT CO OF CALIFORNIA (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2064 CANDY & OTHER CONFECTIONERY PRODUCTS (85%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2008



942 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: In Japan, Slide in Output Compounds Recession Fears

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
Industrial output data from Japan on Friday intensified worries that Japan, the world's second-largest economy, was headed for a deeper and more protracted recession than previously thought as consumer and corporate demand around the world evaporated.
 At the same time, new data indicates that Japan faces a period of deflation next year. Falling employment and consumer spending added to the bleak picture and highlighted how difficult it would be for Japan to extricate itself from the recession. 
 ''It's a big mess,'' said Ryutaro Kono, chief economist for Japan at BNP Paribas, referring to the industrial output. ''We've never seen anything like it.''
 Industry output in November plunged 8.1 percent from a month earlier, the biggest decline on record. The fall surprised even the most pessimistic of forecasters, despite a flurry of announcements in recent weeks showing manufacturers like Honda and Sony racing to scale back production as domestic and overseas demand plummets.
 In the latest of a string of such news from corporate Japan, Fuji Heavy Industries, the maker of Subaru cars, said Friday that it would reduce output by a further 10,000 vehicles in the business year ending in March, bringing the total cut to 70,000. It will also shed 300 additional temporary jobs, Bloomberg News reported.
 ''The output results were very disappointing,'' said Satoru Ogasawara, an economist at Credit Suisse in Tokyo. ''They are much worse than expected.''
 Japan's export-dependent economy has been hit especially hard by the downturn in the United States and Europe because those economies are key markets for corporate giants like Panasonic, Nissan and Toyota.
 ''It was U.S. excess consumption that was behind Japan's growth in the past few years,'' said Mr. Kono of BNP Paribas.
 With the United States and Europe now in recession, Japan's exporters have been forced to issue a string of profit warnings and production and staff cutbacks.
 The data on Friday showed manufacturers planned to scale back output a further 8 percent this month, putting the manufacturing sector in line for a quarterly drop of 11.1 percent. This, combined with figures out Monday showing that exports in November dropped a staggering 26.7 percent from a year earlier, shows the overall Japanese economy is heading for a contraction of more than 5 percent this quarter, said Mr. Kono, the BNP Paribas economist.
 Many economists say they believe the first two quarters of 2009 also look set to contract, before the economy bottoms out during the second half of next year.
 For next year over all, Mr. Ogasawara of Credit Suisse forecast that Japan's economy would shrink 2.1 percent.
 Adding to the bleak picture, other data on Friday showed Japanese manufacturers' inventories continued to swell despite the production cutbacks, as shipments declined more rapidly than the companies' ability to rein in output. This means companies will be burdened with huge inventory build-ups, which will hamper their ability to rebound once the economy does start to bottom out.
 Data also showed the jobless rate climbed to 3.9 percent in November, from 3.7 percent the previous month. Household spending slid a modest 0.5 percent but was widely expected to deteriorate sharply as the recession deepened.
 Meanwhile, annual core consumer inflation slowed to 1 percent in November, from 1.9 percent the previous month, thanks largely to a plunge in oil prices, and early December data for the key Tokyo region foreshadowed an overall December reading of only 0.2 percent.
 This puts the country in line for a slight fall in prices -- that is, deflation -- by the second quarter of 2009, according to Mr. Kono, the BNP Paribas economist. 
 With interest rates in Japan already near zero, the Bank of Japan has virtually no room to cut the cost of borrowing further and will now resort to buying commercial paper, or short-term debt, to shore up ailing Japanese credit markets.
 Other economies in the region have also raced to shore up their ailing economies as the impact of the slowdown in the United States eats into the key export sectors.
 In China, where the economy is rapidly losing momentum and where the authorities last month announced a huge stimulus plan, Zhou Xiaochuan, the governor of the central bank, said the country needed to devise more policies to bolster consumption to offset falling exports.
 And in South Korea, the economy ministry said that the country's economy was in an ''unprecedented crisis'' but that the government would strive to avert an annual decline in exports in 2009.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Japanese search for jobs at an employment center in Osaka. The nation's unemployment rate rose 0.2 percentage points.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SHINOBU IKAZAKI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); INVENTORIES (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DEFLATION (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (71%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); PROFIT WARNINGS (69%)

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS (JAPAN) LTD (85%); BNP PARIBAS SA (57%); FUJI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (55%); BLOOMBERG LP (54%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (57%); BNP (BIT) (57%); 7270 (TSE) (55%); CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); OSAKA, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (99%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2008



943 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: War With Riverbank Invader, Waged by Muscle and Munching

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: URAVAN, Colo. 

 BODY:
In the 1930s, when the federal government was experimenting with an array of projects to address bad times, tree-planting came into vogue as a tool to fight soil erosion here in the West and on the Great Plains. The shelterbelt program, as it was called, took trees from many parts of the world -- including a hardy species from the Asian steppe, called tamarisk or salt cedar -- and planted them by the millions.
 The Great Depression and the Dust Bowl finally, mercifully, ended. But the tamarisk stuck around, and spread along riverbanks from Texas to Kansas and Colorado to California, choking out native trees like willow and cottonwood that had been there for millenniums. 
 ''They're relentless; they don't stop for anything,'' said Dan Bean, the director of biology pest control at the Colorado Department of Agriculture. 
 Now, tamarisk fighters like Mr. Bean are hoping that history may be turning again, that the same sort of tough times that help spread the tamarisk may be the catalyst for a new round of cleanup and conservation work to get rid of the trees. 
 The model and the basis of their hopes is the San Miguel River, a modest stream -- by Western standards, anyway -- that burbles along for about 90 miles from the 13,000-foot peaks around the resort town of Telluride, draining a nearly uninhabited area roughly the size of Rhode Island. It flows into the Dolores River, a tributary of the Colorado.
 In the tamarisk fight, the San Miguel is the test river, the first river drainage basin in the West to be all but completely scrubbed of tamarisk. A combination of sweat equity from volunteer groups, corporate philanthropy -- Marathon Oil sent teams of workers to help -- and the knitting together of government programs, created a model for money, logistics and labor. Work on the project was completed this month. 
 ''It was the perfect place to start,'' said Tim Carlson, executive director of the Tamarisk Coalition, a six-year-old nonprofit group based in Grand Junction, about two hours north of here on a two-lane road. ''We know how to kill the plant. This river was about how to get everybody behind the effort, and how to engage the community and the federal and state agencies.'' 
 Tamarisk killing is a natural job, people on the San Miguel project say, for young people with energy and interest in the outdoors, but no job prospects -- a pitch Mr. Carlson's group is hoping will work with the Obama administration's economic stimulus planners. He has already worked with state Conservation Corps groups and points to recent startups like Working for Rivers, a company based in Flagstaff, Ariz., whose goal is to create river-cleanup jobs for young people.
 But the San Miguel project, $1.3 million over six years, also revealed a deeper and in some ways stranger story.
 Tamarisk, which grows in dense clusters 5 to 30 feet tall like fingers in a fist, first came to the East Coast in the early 1800s but never became a runaway problem there. Here in Colorado it took root in a town that was wrapped up in a cycle of its own destruction.
 Uravan, from its inception, was radioactive. Founded around a radium-recovery plant in 1912 in the age of Marie Curie and radioactive wonder-treatments, it moved in World War II and afterward into processing uranium and vanadium. At the town's peak, 800 people called it home, but the soil and water were deeply polluted.
 In 1986, the federal Environmental Protection Agency declared Uravan a Superfund site, then cleared it of every structure, road and post beam as part of its own cleanup. And because most of the area is owned by the federal government, and no people were left to quibble about property rights and stream access, the tamarisk clearers could proceed apace when they got here in 2002. 
 In some places, nature marched right back in when the tamarisk was gone.
 ''What we see right there are some nice cottonwoods, birds in there -- a natural indigenous tree that is contributing to the health of the river,'' said Peter Mueller, a former high school principal from Telluride who led the tamarisk-clearing effort as a regional director for the Nature Conservancy. 
 But Mr. Mueller said the ghosts of Uravan were still here, too. ''That might have been a ball field,'' he said on a recent day on the riverbank, pointing to a patch of stumps and not much else. ''The soil was disturbed, and the tamarisk liked that and moved in.''
 A little beetle from Kazakhstan plays a role in this story, too. The beetles, which evolved alongside tamarisk in Asia and eat nothing but the tree's leaves, were studied for years in the 1990s -- primarily to make sure they would not munch down something other than tamarisk -- and then released in test batches in Colorado, Utah and elsewhere beginning in 2001.
 Nature being what it is, though, the beetles, while still eating only tamarisk, have moved on beyond their initial confines, specifically to Arizona, home to a bird called the Southwest willow flycatcher.
 The flycatcher, which as its name suggests used to live in willow trees, has adapted to nesting in the invasive tamarisk. The bad news is that the flycatcher population has plummeted and is now under federal protection as an endangered species, and the beetles, doing what they do, are now attacking. It is a tamarisk conundrum.
 Meanwhile, global-warming models suggest that tamarisk may be moving north into areas like Idaho and Wyoming that had been too cold or dry in the past. The result is a sort of crosswind: beetles going south, trees going north and tamarisk hunters caught between.
 ''This might be one of those continuing projects that never ends,'' said Deborah Finch, a research biologist with the Rocky Mountain Research Station of the United States Forest Service. 
 But the odd connections of human and wild can be a benefit, too. Certain parts of the San Miguel, even after the E.P.A.'s cleanup of radioactive tailings and waste, are still off limits to people, and thus still have some tamarisk stands that cannot be cut. So this year, Mr. Mueller from the Nature Conservancy asked if tamarisk beetles might be released there to work where humans could not. 
 The government said yes, and the beetles are now munching away.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The tamarisk, here along the Dolores River in western Colorado, is an invasive, thirsty species that crowds out native trees. Beetles are part of eradication efforts.
 Dusty McLeod, left, and Bill Perry, cutting and poisoning tamarisk trees along the San Miguel River near Naturita, Colo.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (89%); BIOLOGY (78%); EROSION (77%); CHARITIES (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (68%); CORPORATE GIVING (68%); VOLUNTEERS (66%); PHILANTHROPY (63%)

COMPANY: MARATHON OIL CORP (53%)

TICKER: MRO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLAGSTAFF, AZ, USA (75%); GRAND JUNCTION, CO, USA (57%) COLORADO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2008



944 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Want to Make Coffee? Be Prepared to Write

BYLINE: By BETH SLOVIC

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore. 

 BODY:
One might think there is little more that can be said about coffee in this city, which is, after all, home to four of the leading coffee magazines in the country, a school that draws baristas from across the world, a social-networking site for coffee professionals, and the two-time Northwest regional barista champion. 
 But as the owner of Ladybug Organic Coffee Company, a coffee shop that serves pastry and other light fare, Angel O'Brien, 31, has managed to break new ground in Portland's hypercompetitive, hypercaffeinated coffee community -- with a five-page job application form that includes 10 essay questions intended to weed out all but the most devoted and cheerful baristas and bakers. 
 ''What is the most important thing that you have ever learned, and how has it changed your life?'' one question reads. ''What is something that you do on a regular basis to make the world a better place?'' And, ''What is one thing that you think would make Portland a better city?''
 Since she opened Ladybug in May 2007, Ms. O'Brien said, more than 2,000 people have downloaded the application from her Web site. More than 150 people have completed it. But only about 25 applicants have been offered jobs. 
 Among them was Tyler Cox, whose essay answers included his account of how, as a barista at Starbucks, he used finger spelling to learn the signs for a deaf patron's favorite drink, an extra-hot, nonfat, 16-ounce chai latte with five pumps of chai concentrate. 
 ''I think she could do better with a simpler application,'' Mr. Cox said. ''I was kind of put off. Then I thought it was a challenge.''
 He was hired by Ladybug but left after less than a year, landing at Coffeehouse Northwest, one of the more exclusive shops here. Its owner, Adam McGovern, does not ask applicants to answer such extensive questions but does require a rigorous three-month training period for those he hires to be baristas, who practice steaming water before graduating to milk.
 Ken Yates, a co-owner of James John Cafe across the street from Ladybug, said he preferred a more concise resume, one page at the most. ''Where you worked and who you worked for,'' Mr. Yates said, ''those are the things that matter to me.''
 But Matt Milletto, director of training at the American Barista and Coffee School in southeast Portland, said he did not think Ms. O'Brien was wasting her time or that of her applicants. 
 Coffee, Mr. Milletto said, ''is a sexy beverage.'' 
 ''A barista has a unique position in the community,'' he said, ''and personality is important. It's very rare to get a job just by dropping off a resume.''
 And as the economy worsens, and baristas' jobs are increasingly threatened, applicants' personality and character traits are likely to become even more important. 
 ''We will see some coffee retailers fail in this economic climate,'' Mr. Milletto, 30, said.
 ''In the coffee industry it is often easier and in some cases better to hire someone with good character and a good personality,'' which cannot be imparted through training, he said. 
 That is why Ms. O'Brien is sticking with her five-page formula. The best baristas are chefs, rock stars, baby sitters, comedians, bartenders and therapists all rolled into one, she said in her shop on a recent afternoon as Neil Young music played in the background. ''They aren't the ones who just pull great shots and steam fabulous milk.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tyler Cox, now a barista at Coffeehouse Northwest in Portland, Ore., previously worked at Ladybug Organic Coffee Company. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); COFFEE & TEA (78%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); COFFEE (73%); ORGANIC BEVERAGES (73%); DEAFNESS (69%)

COMPANY: ORGANIC COFFEE CO (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%) OREGON, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



945 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: Coal Is Returning to Home Furnaces

BYLINE: By TOM ZELLER Jr. and STEFAN MILKOWSKI; Tom Zeller Jr. reported from Sugarloaf, Pa., and Stefan Milkowski from Fairbanks, Alaska.

DATELINE: SUGARLOAF, Pa. 

 BODY:
Kyle Buck heaved open the door of a makeshift bin abutting his suburban ranch house. Staring at a two-ton pile of coal that was delivered by truck a few weeks ago, Mr. Buck worried aloud that it would not be enough to last the winter.
 ''I think I'm going through it faster than I thought I would,'' he said. 
 Aptly, perhaps, for an era of hard times, coal is making a comeback as a home heating fuel.
 Problematic in some ways and difficult to handle, coal is nonetheless a cheap, plentiful, mined-in-America source of heat. And with the cost of heating oil and natural gas increasingly prone to spikes, some homeowners in the Northeast, pockets of the Midwest and even Alaska are deciding coal is worth the trouble. 
 Burning coal at home was once commonplace, of course, but the practice had been declining for decades. Coal consumption for residential use hit a low of 258,000 tons in 2006 -- then started to rise. It jumped 9 percent in 2007, according to the Energy Information Administration, and 10 percent more in the first eight months of 2008. 
 Online coal forums are buzzing with activity, as residential coal enthusiasts trade tips and advice for buying and tending to coal heaters. And manufacturers and dealers of coal-burning stoves say they have been deluged with orders -- many placed when the price of heating oil jumped last summer -- that they are struggling to fill. 
 ''Back in the 1980s, we sold hundreds a year,'' said Rich Kauffman, the sales manager at E.F.M. Automatic Heat in Emmaus, Pa., one of the oldest makers of coal-fired furnaces and boilers in the United States, in a nod to the uptick in coal sales that followed the oil crises of the 1970s.
 ''But that dwindled to nothing in the early 1990s -- down to as many as 10 a year,'' he said. ''It picked up about a year ago, when we moved about 60 units, and then this year we've already sold 200.'' 
 Dean Lehman, the plant manager for Hitzer Inc., a family-owned business in Berne, Ind., that makes smaller, indoor coal stoves, said his stoves were on back order until March. And Jeffery Gliem, the director of operations at the Reading Stove Company and its parent, Reading Anthracite, in Pottsville, Pa., which supplies coal and stoves to 15 states in the Northeast and Midwest, said the uptick in interest was the largest he had seen in 30 years. 
 ''In your typical year you might have five, six, seven thousand stoves being sold,'' Mr. Gliem said. ''This year it was probably double that.'' 
 The coal trend is consistent with steep increases in other forms of supplementary heating that people can use to save money -- most of them less messy than coal. Home Depot reports that it has sold more than 80,000 tons of pellet fuel, a sort of compressed sawdust, for the season to date. That is an increase of 137 percent compared with the same period last year, said Jean Niemi, a company spokeswoman. 
 Coal may never make economic sense in areas far from where it is mined. But in places within reasonable delivery range, the price tends to be stable, compared with heating oil or natural gas. Prices for natural gas more than tripled in recent years before plunging in the last few months amid the downturn.
 Coals vary in quality, but on average, a ton of coal contains about as much potential heat as 146 gallons of heating oil or 20,000 cubic feet of natural gas, according to the Energy Information Administration. A ton of anthracite, a particularly high grade of coal, can cost as little as $120 near mines in Pennsylvania. The equivalent amount of heating oil would cost roughly $380, based on the most recent prices in the state -- and over $470 using prices from December 2007. An equivalent amount of natural gas would cost about $480 at current prices. 
 Mr. Buck said he could buy coal for $165 a ton. On a blustery afternoon recently, he was still studying the manual for his $2,300 Alaska Channing stoker, which gave off an intense heat in the den. An automated hopper in the back slowly dispensed fine anthracite coal chips into the stove's belly, and every couple of days, Mr. Buck emptied the ash. He said he hoped the stove would cut his oil consumption in half.
 ''Now, somewhere, you've got to take into account the convenience of turning up your thermostat, versus having two tons of coal to shovel and the hopper and ashes to deal with,'' Mr. Buck said. But if the $330 worth of coal in his makeshift bin ''heats the house for the winter,'' he added, ''you can't beat it.''
 Wesley Ridlington, a homeowner in Fairbanks, Alaska, bought an outdoor coal furnace for $13,000 in March and uses it as his main source for heat and hot water. 
 On a recent evening, as the temperature hovered around 23 below zero, Mr. Ridlington worked to free up the rotating burning plate inside the furnace, which he figured was jammed by a pebble. He did not seem to mind the glitch, or, for that matter, loading the furnace twice a week and emptying the ash pan every night. ''It takes a little bit of time,'' he said, ''but for the savings, it's worth it.''
 Mr. Ridlington said he was typically burning 1,500 gallons of oil each winter to heat his 3,300-square-foot home. At last year's prices, that would have cost about $7,000, he said. This winter, he expects to burn nine tons of coal at a cost of about $1,400.
 ''The initial cost was expensive,'' he said. ''But in three to five years, it'll be paid for, even with prices going down. And if fuel goes back up again, it'll be even more savings.''
 Rob Richards, who owns a business in Fairbanks that sells spas, pool tables, and now outdoor coal furnaces, said that when oil prices were higher, he could promise fuel cost savings of more than 75 percent and a payback of 18 months for an outdoor coal furnace. With oil prices down again, orders for furnaces have dropped off, and the savings are closer to 50 percent with a few years' time to recoup the cost, he said. 
 ''Still, you're looking at a quick payback,'' Mr. Richards added. 
 Coal was a dominant source of heat for American homes for much of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Americans were still burning more than 50 million tons for heating in 1950, according to the federal statistics.
 But coal, primarily used today in power plants and steelmaking, has not been used for heating on a large scale for decades. Cleaner and more easily distributed forms of heating fuel -- including natural gas, electricity and oil -- displaced coal, and residential use dropped precipitously, to 2.8 million tons by 1975, and then to less than 500,000 tons by 2000. 
 Even with the recovery of the last couple of years, residential use of coal in the United States, at less than 300,000 tons today and representing a fraction of 1 percent of all coal use, is ''not even a blip on the screen,'' said Carol Raulston, a spokeswoman for the National Mining Association. 
 Still, even amid the steep decline, small upticks similar to the current one have appeared from time to time, and residential use of coal never entirely went away.
 In Homer, Alaska, fall storms wash crude coal onto the beach from underwater deposits. In the mountains of eastern Kentucky or the hills of central Pennsylvania, residents can simply dig it out of the ground. 
 ''As long as people have been mining coal up there,'' said John Hiett of Kentucky's Office of Mine Safety and Licensing, ''people have burned coal in their houses.''
 Government data suggest that about 131,000 households use coal as their primary source of heat, with perhaps 80,000 more using it as a secondary source. Those numbers are small enough that issues relating to pollution and greenhouse gas emissions have remained largely off the radar. 
 Burning coal does throw fine particles into the air that can pose problems for some people, similar to the problems involved in burning wood -- though wood stoves and fireplace inserts are increasingly subject to regulation to cut down on pollutants.
 ''Coal stoves don't have that,'' said James E. Houck, the president of Omni Environmental Services, a firm in Portland, Ore., that tests air quality. ''And there's no regulatory pressure for them to have it.''
 In some localities where residential coal burning is becoming a factor, that might be changing. In Fairbanks, air quality experts suspect the increase in coal burning -- along with increased wood burning -- is contributing to concentrations of fine particles well above federal limits. 
 ''We see it as a real health hazard to Fairbanks,'' said Jim Conner, the Fairbanks North Star Borough's air quality specialist. 
 Concerns like these have not deterred companies marketing coal. Back East, the Blaschak Coal Corporation, a midsize supplier of anthracite in Mahanoy City, Pa., still emblazons company trucks and baseball caps with images of Santa Claus lugging a sack of coal.
 ''Everybody's looking at wherever they can to save money,'' said Daniel Blaschak, a co-owner of the company. '' 'Cause guess what? We no longer have disposable income. We are up to our necks in debt. And there's very few things we can't live without, but heat is one of them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kyle and Kelly Buck installed a coal stove in their home in Sugarloaf, Pa., to cut their oil use. Every couple of days, Mr. Buck must empty the ash.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
While still a tiny fraction of coal consumption, residential use rose 9 percent in 2007 and 10 percent more through August.
 Danielle Jones and her fiance, Michael Radocha, shopping for a coal stove in Coaldale, Pa.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); HEATING OIL (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); COAL MINING (78%); ANTHRACITE MINING (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); HEATING OIL PRICES (74%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (74%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (74%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); TRENDS (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); FAMILY COMPANIES (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2008



946 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: Foreclosures Don't Spare the House of God

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
After years of renting makeshift quarters, Seabreeze Church finally bought a permanent home in 2004 -- a five-acre former tennis club in a beachside Southern California town.
The price was high and the building plans ambitious, but Seabreeze secured a $5 million loan from a credit union that caters to evangelical churches and raised several million more. The congregation moved in last year, just as credit markets froze, and now the church finds itself struggling to pay its bills as weekly expenses outpace weekly giving.
''We were kind of like that young married couple that really stretched for their first home,'' said Bevan Unrau, the church's senior pastor. ''But I don't think we're completely unique.''
The era of easy credit has begun taking its toll on even the most sacred of borrowers, religious institutions. 
Many churches expanded during the real estate boom, as banks large and small lent money based on assumptions about growth in their donations.
The lenders were, in a sense, betting on the likelihood that a particular pastor could attract a large audience or, in some cases, on the popularity of one denomination over another. But, where those bets were wrong, or too optimistic, congregations found themselves knee-deep in debt and at risk of losing their houses of worship.
Hundreds of churches across the country have received foreclosure notices in recent months, and even more are behind on mortgage payments. An economic downturn tends to increase church attendance, but the amount each churchgoer donates tends to decrease. And newer members usually donate less than older ones. Churches can trim spending by cutting staff and social activities, but for many parishes, the biggest monthly expense is the mortgage.
Historically, churches were wary of debt, and many old-line congregations have owned their buildings free and clear for decades. But borrowing by churches became more common in the 1990s, reaching $28 billion nationwide in 2006, including mortgages, construction loans and church bonds, according to Lambert, Edwards & Associates, a consulting business in Grand Rapids, Mich. New companies and nonprofit organizations focused on church lending sprang up, as did real estate investment trusts and other bundles of church loans, which were sold to investors.
The rise of nondenominational churches and a resurgence in the evangelical movement also led to more religious institutions seeking to borrow. Churches were often founded in storefronts or school auditoriums, but as they grew, they built sprawling edifices, including so-called mega-churches. At the same time, some older churches lost members as young people went elsewhere, and had to borrow to survive.
Some in the church lending industry say aggressive lenders pushed church mortgages, too.
''Some of the mentality that you saw taking hold of the residential marketplace probably shifted into the church,'' said Dan Mikes, executive vice president of the church banking division of Bank of the West, a subsidiary of BNP Paribas. ''Lenders loaned far too much, they loaned into lofty projections of future growth, and they just saddled the churches with far too much debt.''
At least a quarter of religious properties have mortgages, according to an analysis of property and mortgage filings in 115 United States counties completed for The New York Times by First American CoreLogic, a data provider in California. But that number is far higher than it would have been without the mortgage boom. The number of mortgages issued to churches in those counties in 2005 was 50 percent higher than in 2002, the analysis showed.
Foreclosure filings have fallen on the doorstep of 254 properties, or 0.31 percent of the 82,441 churches studied. The percentage is higher when churches without mortgages are excluded. St. Andrew's Anglican Church in Easton, Md., exemplifies the optimistic assumptions that fed church lending. St. Andrew's had only 35 members in 2005 when it moved from a rented storefront to a Gothic revival-style chapel built in 1866. The building cost $795,000, but the church borrowed $50,000 from one lender and $850,000 from the Talbot Bank of Easton, according to W. David Morse, a vice president of the bank.
The church hoped its congregation would expand at a time when some Episcopalians were leaving their churches to join Anglican parishes. But by early this year, St. Andrew's had not grown much and had fallen behind on its mortgage. By August, as interest racked up, it owed Talbot Bank $884,657.
At auction this month, Talbot took possession of the church for $700,000, giving the congregation weeks to move out unless the auction is contested.
''In hindsight, any loan that goes bad will invariably look 'ambitious,' '' Mr. Morse said. ''At the time the loan was made, the board of directors obviously believed'' in the vision and projected growth of the church.
Fewer than 30 people attended the church service on the Sunday before Christmas, and most kept their coats on, shivering in the cold because the heat had been turned down to save money.
''I bid your prayers for this parish and that God will continue to sustain it,'' Bishop Joel Johnson told the congregation.
To be sustained, a church does not necessarily need a home. For instance, the Living Truth Church in Des Moines was foreclosed on last summer and now the congregation meets in a local Boys & Girls Club. In Houston, the St. Agnes Baptist Church was foreclosed on in September, but the bank that took over simply rented the building back to the church.
Church mortgages, long a niche product, became more mainstream in the past decade. Bank of America and other national banks expanded their practices, and in the last few years specialty financing companies began bundling church mortgages to be sold to investors. Moody's Investors Service, for instance, rated a handful of church mortgage securitizations just before the financial crisis.
Churches are also included in a small fraction of commercial mortgage-backed securities, according to Trepp, a New York research business that tracks the commercial mortgage market. But there are few public filings by churches, which are not required to disclose details of their bond offerings to the public. One exception is church real estate investment trusts, or REITS, which are required to file disclosures with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In one such filing, by the Church Loan and Investments Trust in Amarillo, Tex., nonperforming church loans increased 14 percent for the quarter that ended on Sept. 30, compared with the quarter a year earlier.
That real estate investment trust also disclosed in its filing that in 2004 it increased the levels of debt that it would allow its churches to take on to 85 percent of the value of their properties, from 67 percent. No national regulations govern church debt levels.
Veterans of church lending predicted most church loans would not fall into the same kind of trouble as the housing and office markets.
''You're beginning with a borrower that considers it a moral obligation to repay his loan,'' said Timothy Horner, a partner with Warner Norcross & Judd, a law firm in Grand Rapids, Mich., who has worked on church financing issues.
That seems to be the case at the Seabreeze Church in Huntington Beach, Calif. The church reduced its monthly payments by switching to an interest-only mortgage with its lender, the Evangelical Christian Credit Union. Pastor Unrau and his staff now work out of home offices or the Sunday school classrooms instead of separate office space. Each week, he posts the church's expenses and the amount of donations. Last week, giving totaled $14,066 and expenses were $29,693.
Pastor Unrau said people at churches are sometimes not realistic enough in their thinking. '' 'Well, maybe God's just going to make this go away,' '' he said. ''But, actually, we have a responsibility for the situation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Seabreeze Church bought this building in Huntington Beach, Calif., in 2004 and is struggling to pay the mortgage.(PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Living Truth Church lost this Des Moines building to foreclosure and uses a Boys & Girls Club.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK KEGANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
St. Andrew's Anglican Church in Easton, Md., defaulted on its mortgage and must move.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE RUARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Bevan Unrau, senior pastor at Seabreeze Church, compared the church to a couple that ''stretched for their first home.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); FORECLOSURE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); TENNIS (78%); SPORTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); PERSONAL DEBT (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (60%); RETAILERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



947 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: When a Corner Bar Moves Up the Street, Do Its Patrons Follow?

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
Steve Chahalis, a large, bearded, 47-year-old fourth-generation barkeep, excitedly showed off the extravagantly divey, subterranean domain of his future saloon: the former Evelyn Lounge at Columbus Avenue and 78th Street in Manhattan. 
 ''We can transfer the P&G here,'' he was saying of a 66-year-old watering hole with a landmark neon sign six blocks to the southwest, at Amsterdam Avenue and 73rd Street. ''I feel we can make this place what we have now -- and more.'' 
 He hopes the new version of P&G -- the old one is losing its lease on Wednesday because of a rent increase and has until February to move -- can succeed like the original. That classic was depicted in ''Seinfeld'' and ''Will and Grace,'' and was known to generations of Beacon Theater patrons as, well, a beacon for those who stopped for a drink there, sometimes with performers like the Allman Brothers and the Grateful Dead. 
 But if drinking and dining have always been a moveable feast in New York, is charisma cartable? Can the character of everything from venerable pubs to palatial eateries migrate with their names and owners? This portability issue has gained new urgency in a season of economic disarray, when property owners are less willing to extend the leases of even the most beloved old-timers. 
 Loyalists can be fickle, and geography perilous. ''New York is so provincial, three blocks is a huge distance,'' said Patrick Daley, the owner of Kettle of Fish, the classic step-down barroom at 59 Christopher Street in Sheridan Square, in the space formerly inhabited by the Lion's Head, a lionized writers' pub, which closed in 1996. 
 The Kettle was a hangout for beatniks and folkies in the 1950s at 114 Macdougal Street (from 1950 to 1986), then occupied 130 West Third Street (from 1986 to 1998) before landing in its current 1,400-square-foot incarnation. The original 1950s neon bar light is enshrined in a back room.
 Building a new clientele can take a year or more, said Mr. Daley, who has tended bar at the Kettle in all three locations and has owned it since 1998. 
 But even wildly popular establishments with improbable longevity have become cautionary tales in the universe of city hospitality. Mama Leone's, a mass-oriented theme restaurant, was founded in the early 1900s, closed in 1987 on 48th Street off Eighth Avenue and opened the next year on 44th Street, also off Eighth Avenue. It ultimately shuttered its doors in 1994. 
 ''The new space never worked,'' said Malcolm M. Knapp, who heads a restaurant consulting firm in Manhattan that bears his name.
 Another lamentable flameout was the demise of Runyon's, a sports-bar-cum-literary-hub-cum-neighborhood-scrum on 50th Street between First and Second Avenues. After nearly two decades of picaresque existence, it lost its lease in 1996 and tried to keep going under the same name around the corner on Second Avenue between 49th and 50th Streets, ''but it was never quite the same,'' said James Certa, an insurance executive who mourned its closing in 2002. 
 The bar's specter suffered further insult last March when Fubar, a tavern in the former Runyon's space, was crushed in the collapse of a 146-ton crane that killed seven people. ''The only thing left,'' Mr. Certa said, ''was an old Runyon's bar tab.'' 
 An enduring problem is that ''once the scale of a place changes, then so does the character that drew people there in the first place,'' said Michael Whiteman, whose company, Joseph Baum & Michael Whiteman, is an international restaurant consulting firm. ''It is easier for Hollywood to produce a sequel.'' 
 At times, name continuity can lead to incongruities. The Second Avenue Deli -- the kosher legend that occupied the corner of Second Avenue and 10th Street for more than 50 years -- moved a mile north to 162 East 33rd Street, between Lexington and Third Avenues -- but kept the same name. 
 But some favored places can successfully move in spirit, minus the name. A year after the name Mortimer's expired with the 1988 death of the owner, Glenn Bernbaum, two mainstays of the high-society saloon on Lexington Avenue and 75th Street -- Robert Caravaggi, a maitre d'hotel, and Steven Attoe, a chef -- opened Swifty's Restaurant, two blocks south at 1007 Lexington Avenue. ''Robert and Stephen channeled Mortimer's,'' Mr. Knapp said.
 ''The old restaurant was a clubhouse, and they managed to keep it a clubhouse.'' 
 An abundance of bars and restaurants has outlived the moving vans, ranging from Blind Tiger and Tap a Keg to Sparks Steak House, Aquavit, Victor's Cafe, Roberto in the Bronx and Le Cirque, that haunt of celebrities, dignitaries and social and corporate elitists. ''Moving is very, very difficult,'' said Sirio Maccioni, the 74-year-old founder, who has moved his restaurant twice: from 65th Street and Park Avenue after 23 years to Madison Avenue and 50th Street until 2004, and then, after being closed for a spell, reopening at 151 East 58th Street two years ago.
 Mr. Maccioni and his peripatetic restaurant are the subjects of ''Le Cirque: A Table in Heaven,'' a documentary film that will make its HBO debut on Monday. 
 Only one attitude brings success, Mr. Maccioni said in an interview: ''You can't be afraid of anything, but you have to stay nervous all the time. If you aren't, there is something wrong.'' 
 Mr. Knapp, the consultant, said that ''you want to transfer a core set of values, so people will make an emotional connection and keep coming. But there's a need for reinvention as well -- new people must sense that this is the place to be.'' 
 This is exactly the hope of Tony May, the 72-year-old restaurateur who is moving his pioneering high-end Italian restaurant, San Domenico, from Central Park South to Madison Square Park. ''This is continuity,'' he said with a laugh, ''since we're still overlooking a park.'' 
 The lease ''pushed us to do it,'' said his daughter and co-owner, Marisa May (the landlord at 240 Central Park South wanted to triple the rent, she said), ''and we realized that the move made a lot of sense.'' 
 Their new $6 million restaurant at 19 East 26th Street, between Madison and Fifth Avenues, will have a change of name -- SD26, a reference to San Domenico and the new address -- and will double the restaurant's size to 15,000 square feet when it opens next fall. Shockingly, to some habitues, the Mays are dropping the restaurant's 20-year cachet as the only Italian restaurant in the city to require that men wear a jacket. 
 Jackets, of course, have ever been discouraged at the P&G. ''People know us, we're almost a public utility,'' said Tom Chahalis, Steve's father, who is 72. ''I think a lot of people will spread the word.'' 
 It is currently unknowable whether the battered red, green and yellow neon P&G sign depicting glassy waves breaking from the ship's prow at the corner of the building (designed by Steve's grandfather during his World War II Navy service) is sturdy enough to segue to a renovated Evelyn Lounge (named after Evelyn Nesbit, who is believed to have lived upstairs, Steve Chahalis said), also in a landmark building. Having signed a $20,000-a-month lease for 20 years, Mr. Chahalis hopes the old neon sign, or a new one, will beckon. 
 The future P&G, with its 2,700-square-foot public space, is three times as large as the old 860-square-foot bar, has four rooms and will offer a fireplace for the poolroom-and-dartboard set. A rusticated structural wall will be an ornament, instead of the kitschy Austrian castle and forest fantasy mural signed in 1943 by a rye-drinking artist who executed the scene to pay his bar tab. 
 Some regular customers worry about being dispossessed. ''I'll feel out the new place,'' said Patrick Duffy, a stagehand who has been a regular for more than a decade. ''But we don't know if the new place is for us -- we're old school.'' 
 To Steve Chahalis, though, his taphouse is eminently welcoming and transportable because, among other attributes, it ''has an old Greek soul,'' he said, deadpan, referring to the Chahalis ancestry. Beyond that, the soul of the bar ''resides in us and our extended family,'' he added. ''We and the customers created that soul, and it will come along with us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The P&G Cafe, on the Upper West Side, is moving only six blocks, but traveling even such a short distance can threaten an establishment's cachet.
 Homero Agila and Nyle Dwyer snapped a picture at the P&G, which will lose its lease next week and has until February to move.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID GOLDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (91%); RESTAURANTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (75%); RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); THEME RESTAURANTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2008



948 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: Why We're Still Happy

BYLINE: By SONJA LYUBOMIRSKY. 
Sonja Lyubomirsky, a professor of psychology at the University of California, Riverside, is the author of ''The How of Happiness: A Scientific Approach to Getting the Life You Want.''

DATELINE: Riverside, Calif. 

 BODY:
 THESE days, bad news about the economy is everywhere.
 So why aren't we panicking? Why aren't we spending our days dejected about the markets? How is it that we manage to remain mostly preoccupied with the quotidian tasks and concerns of life? Traffic, dinner, homework, deadlines, sharp words, flirtatious glances. 
 Because the news these days affects everyone.
 Research in psychology and economics suggests that when only your salary is cut, or when only you make a foolish investment, or when only you lose your job, you become considerably less satisfied with your life. But when everyone from autoworkers to Wall Street financiers becomes worse off, your life satisfaction remains pretty much the same.
 Indeed, humans are remarkably attuned to relative position and status. As the economists David Hemenway and Sara Solnick demonstrated in a study at Harvard, many people would prefer to receive an annual salary of $50,000 when others are making $25,000 than to earn $100,000 a year when others are making $200,000. 
 Similarly, Daniel Zizzo and Andrew Oswald, economists in Britain, conducted a study that showed that people would give up money if doing so would cause someone else to give up a slightly larger sum. That is, we will make ourselves poorer in order to make someone else poorer, too.
 Findings like these reveal an all-too-human truth. We care more about social comparison, status and rank than about the absolute value of our bank accounts or reputations.
 For example, Andrew Clark, an economist in France, has recently shown that being laid off hurts less if you live in a community with a high unemployment rate. What's more, if you are unemployed, you will, on average, be happier if your spouse is unemployed, too. 
 So in a world in which just about all of us have seen our retirement savings and home values plummet, it's no wonder that we all feel surprisingly O.K. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); HOME PRICES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2008



949 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: At This Casino, Only the Slots Can Light Up

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: FERNLEY, Nev. 

 BODY:
A Nevada casino without smoke might seem like the Strip without neon. But in this town off Interstate 80 a half-hour's drive east of Reno, a new casino invites gamblers to breathe deeply, and not just to soothe nerves before a bet.
 The Fernley Nugget, one of only two Nevada casinos that prohibit smoking, and the first built with the ban in mind, may be at the vanguard of what smoking's opponents hope will be its eventual elimination in casinos, among the few public indoor places where many states still allow it. 
 ''Everybody says smoking and gambling go together, and when you gamble, you do smoke more,'' said Jane Magazu, 56, a former smoker playing a video slot machine at the Nugget. ''But now I can go home and I don't have to take a shower to get the smoke smell off of me. Smoke really bothers me.''
 Advocates for smoke-free casinos are paying close attention to what happens in Fernley. But Scott Tate, general manager of the Nugget, which with only 10,000 square feet, 174 slots and 2 poker tables is dwarfed by the cavernous palaces of Reno and Las Vegas, makes clear that the ban here is all about business, not necessarily public health. 
 Marketing research, he says, simply suggested an opening for smoke-free gambling.
 ''We are not as a company taking a position to be smoke-free facilities going forward,'' said Mr. Tate, who also oversees five other casinos in northern Nevada. ''But this particular facility, in this particular market, in this particular location, we feel could be successful.''
 Fernley, after all, is one of Nevada's fastest-growing communities, and many new residents come from California and other states where bans on smoking in public places have been the norm for years. 
 ''People say they like a smoke-free environment,'' Mr. Tate said. ''Well, here is one. Show me.''
 So far, he said, they have. Though he declined to release figures, he said the casino, which opened Nov. 5, was meeting financial expectations even in a recession that has arrested one-arm bandits and all but stilled roulette wheels across the country.
 The Nugget remains an oddity for Nevada, whose $11-billion-a-year gambling market towers above that of any other state. Casino executives tend to believe in an affinity between the pleasures of smoking and the allure of gambling, and their informal surveys suggest a correlation between high rollers and heavy smokers. They are also loath to undercut the expectations of tourists from countries where smoking bans are far less common, especially Asians, who account for a growing share of the casinos' business.
 In fact, a nonsmoking casino that operated in Reno in the late 1980s soon closed for lack of business, an outcome that casino operators frequently cite.
 So while some casinos have voluntarily set aside parts of the gambling floor for nonsmokers, only one other in Nevada now has a total ban: Bill's Casino Lake Tahoe, which went smoke-free in January 2007, hoping to capitalize on health-conscious tourists from Northern California. And its operator, Harrah's, is not contemplating an expansion of the idea.
 ''Our position is we would be very supportive if everyone were to go in this direction,'' said Marybel Batjer, a Harrah's spokeswoman. ''But it is very hard when you are adjacent to another property, a competitor, and they have an offering that you don't.''
 Nevada voters chose two years ago to ban smoking in most public places, but exempted casinos after operators complained. 
 ''Gaming pretty well runs the state of Nevada,'' said Tom McCoy, state director of government relations for the American Cancer Society, one of several groups that pushed the ban. ''We felt, Let's take care of the workplace, the day care centers, restaurants, places where families would be meeting.''
 Of 23 states with casinos or combined racetrack-casinos, only eight forbid all smoking there, according to Americans for Nonsmokers' Rights, an advocacy group based in Berkeley, Calif. Among the eight are Colorado and Illinois, where the bans took effect this year, much to the ire of the owners.
 On the other hand, the City Council in Atlantic City voted 5 to 4 in October to suspend a total smoking ban that had been in effect only a couple of weeks. The Council's vote, which followed casino operators' complaints that the measure would be particularly damaging in hard economic times, left in place a statute adopted earlier that allows smoking on no more than 25 percent of the gambling floor. Critics call that law inadequate, saying smoke wafts into nonsmoking areas.
 The Atlantic City ban was driven by casino employees who cited hazards to their health. Similar concerns have been voiced by casino workers in Las Vegas, where the results of a federal study on secondhand smoke's effects on a group of them are expected in the next few months.
 A 2006 study by the nutrition department at the University of Nevada, Reno, found that only some 21 percent of gamblers smoke, about the same proportion as in the general population. But leaders of the gambling industry say smoking bans have brought a drop in casino revenue where they have been adopted, just as operators of charity bingo, where smoking was once heavy, have reported a decline as a result of smoking bans in several states.
 In Illinois, for example, revenue at riverboat casinos has fallen much more sharply in this first year of a smoking ban than in neighboring states where smoking is allowed, said Tom Swoik, executive director of the Illinois Casino Gaming Association.
 ''We understand the overall economy is having some effect,'' Mr. Swoik said, ''but when you compare Illinois boats to those right across the river, you can see it is not just the economy. The only difference is the smoking ban.''
 Here at the Fernley Nugget, any gamblers who want to light up need only stroll to a smoking patio out back, though on a recent afternoon the ashtrays showed no sign of use.
 Mr. Tate, the general manager, said he thought the Nugget would succeed as a fresh-air alternative.
 ''People would love to be in a gaming environment but choose not to because of the smoking,'' he said. ''I definitely believe you will see more of this nature, the timeline of which I cannot begin to estimate.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard Frank paying a visit to the newly opened Fernley Nugget, that rare Nevada casino where smoking is banned. Mr. Frank is himself a smoker but says he prefers the Nugget's clean air.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); SMOKING (90%); SMOKING BANS (90%); GAMING (90%); POKER (78%); SMOKING CESSATION (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (70%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (65%); ARRESTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RENO, NV, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2008



950 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Gunman in Santa Suit Had Ticket to Canada

BYLINE: By SOLOMON MOORE and ANAHAD O'CONNOR; Solomon Moore contributed reporting from Covina, Calif., and Anahad O'Connor from New York.

DATELINE: COVINA, Calif. 

 BODY:
A man dressed in a Santa Claus suit who opened fire at a Christmas Eve gathering of his former in-laws here and then set the house ablaze, killing nine people before fleeing, was found with $17,000 in cash and a plane ticket to Canada, the police said Friday.
 At an afternoon news conference, the police chief said the gunman, Bruce Jeffrey Pardo, 45, instead drove to his brother's house in Sylmar, about 40 miles from here, after suffering third-degree burns to both arms in the inferno and took his own life with a single gunshot to the head. 
 Hours earlier on Friday, the ninth body was discovered in the rubble of the home in Covina, a small town about 20 miles east of Los Angeles, where people were stunned by what had unfolded in their suburban town.
 At the news conference, Police Chief Kim Raney said that when Mr. Pardo's body was discovered, part of the Santa costume was melted to his skin. 
 The chief said investigators had discovered a resume for Mr. Pardo, and though he could not vouch for its accuracy, it indicated that Mr. Pardo, who was unemployed, had a master's degree in electrical engineering. 
 Chief Raney said Mr. Pardo and his wife had finalized a contentious divorce last week. 
 Among the total of dead or missing were the couple who owned the home and their daughter, the former wife of the gunman, the police said.
 Investigators continued to search the charred structure Friday, and at the news conference Ed Winter, assistant chief coroner of Los Angeles County, said dental records would be needed to identify the remains.
 The frenzied shooting occurred just before midnight Wednesday at the two-story house, set on a cul-de-sac in this middle-class town. Lt. Pat Buchanan of the Covina Police Department said on Thursday that Mr. Pardo, armed with handguns and material to burn down the house, had gone to the house looking for his former wife, Sylvia, to whom he had been married about two years.
 People who escaped the house got out by smashing through glass and jumping. One woman broke an ankle when she leapt from a second-floor window.
 The house was owned by James and Alicia Ortega, an elderly couple who were retired from their spray-painting business and who often invited their large extended family over for parties, particularly around Christmas.
 Relatives said about 25 people, among them many children, were inside the home celebrating when Mr. Pardo knocked on the door around 11:30 p.m. He had apparently disguised himself as a hired entertainer for the children to gain access.
 When a guest opened the door, Lieutenant Buchanan said, Mr. Pardo stepped inside the house, drew a semiautomatic handgun and immediately started shooting, beginning with an 8-year-old girl who was hit in the face but who survived, as did an older girl who was shot in the back.
 As Mr. Pardo unleashed a barrage of gunfire in the living room, relatives smashed through windows, hid behind furniture or bounded upstairs. Then he sprayed the room with the jet fuel, using a device made of two pressurized tanks, one of which held pressurized gas. Within seconds, the house was ablaze.
 Joshua Chavez of Seattle was visiting his mother's house, which sits behind the Ortegas', when he heard a loud explosion. ''Then I saw black smoke and this large flame,'' he said.
 Mr. Chavez ran out to the backyard and heard three girls, including the one who had been shot in the back, trying to climb over his mother's wall. ''There's some guy shooting in there,'' he said one of the girls told him.
 ''About 20 seconds after that,'' he continued, ''the house was totally on fire. One girl said that a guy dressed as Santa started shooting.''
 Another neighbor, Jeannie Goltz, 51, saw three more partygoers fleeing the burning home. One of them, a young woman, had escaped upstairs from the living room but broke her ankle when she jumped out a second-story window.
 SWAT teams arrived shortly after Ms. Goltz had shepherded these three survivors into another neighbor's house, but by that time Mr. Pardo was on his way back to Los Angeles.
 Police officers said they could not recall so horrific a crime in Covina, and neighbors said they would never have imagined anything so grisly on their quiet block.
 The Ortegas had lived in the house for more than two decades and were known for their family spirit, their generosity and their dog, which frequently escaped their yard.
 ''I would generally play Santa for the family every year,'' said Pat Bower, a neighbor of the Ortegas for 25 years. ''The family was always together. Brothers and sisters, aunts and uncles were always in the house. They were a gigantic family. We all envied them, actually.''
 Robert and Gloria Magcalas lived next door to the Ortegas for 11 years but were celebrating Christmas Eve with relatives in Los Angeles. Their own home was barely spared the flames.
 ''They were a big, loving family,'' Mrs. Magcalas said. ''We usually exchanged gifts with them today. They gave us tamales and cookies every Christmas.''
 The police said they had found two handguns in the ruins, and an additional two pistols at the scene of Mr. Pardo's apparent suicide.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); BURN INJURIES (77%); FORENSICS (77%); FAMILY (75%); BONE FRACTURES (75%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (72%); TRAVEL TICKETS (72%); SUBURBS (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2008



951 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Spends Day Searching and Ends a Few Points Higher

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Wall Street rose in light trading on Friday as Americans looking for post-Christmas discounts returned to the malls, and a new report confirmed retailers' fears about a dismal holiday season. 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 47.07 points, or 0.56 percent, to 8,515.55. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 4.65 points, or 0.54 percent, to 872.80, while the Nasdaq composite index jumped 5.34 points, or 0.35 percent, to 1,530.24.
The S.& P. ended the week down 1.7 percent, while the Dow finished down 0.7 of a percent. The Nasdaq lost 2.2 percent.
Trading volume was extremely thin on Friday, and investors have cautioned against reading much into the motion of the financial markets in the last weeks of the year. Only 477 million shares changed hands on the New York Stock Exchange, compared with 1.37 billion on Dec. 12, according to Bloomberg data.
Several retailers finished the day lower as new reports confirmed that this year's holiday season was shaping up to be the weakest in years.
Retail sales from Dec. 1 through Christmas Eve were 8 percent lower than last December, while November's sales were 5.5 percent less, according to SpendingPulse, a report by MasterCard Advisors.
Sales of clothing, electronics, luxury goods, appliances and furniture declined by double digits, as worried consumers pared their holiday spending amid the deepening economic malaise.
A 40 percent drop in gasoline prices contributed to the slump in the holiday sales figures. Excluding gasoline prices, spending fell 2 to 4 percent, SpendingPulse reported.
Online stores fared best during the downturn, and were down only 2.3 percent this holiday season, SpendingPulse said.
Amazon.com, the online retailer, announced that 2008 had been its best holiday season yet, and that shoppers ordered some 6.3 million items on its peak day, Dec. 15. Shares of Amazon gained 34 cents, to $51.78, on Friday, while eBay finished 5 cents lower at $13.60.
Luxury retailers fared the worst this season, losing 35 percent of their business compared with last year, according to SpendingPulse. Shares of Saks, the high-end department store, fell 7 cents, to $3.82.
Shares of General Motors, which have dropped 85 percent this year, rose 12.6 percent, or 41 cents, to $3.66, on news that the automaker's financing arm, GMAC, had received government approval to become a bank, giving it access to up to $6 billion in assistance. Ford Motor gained 8.5 percent, or 18 cents, to $2.29.
After a week of declines, crude oil prices rebounded, rising $2.36 to settle at $37.71 a barrel in trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Major oil and gas producers, including Chevron, BP, Exxon Mobil and Marathon Oil, followed oil prices higher.
In Tokyo on Friday, the Nikkei closed up 1.6 percent. Major markets in Europe were closed.
The Treasury's 10-year note rose 15/32, to 114 11/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was at 2.13 percent, down from 2.18 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg) Chart details line graph.
 The Favorites: Stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (91%); CHRISTMAS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); SALES FIGURES (79%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); APPROVALS (69%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (64%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%)

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (81%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); FORD MOTOR CO (56%); MARATHON OIL CORP (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (50%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (81%); FORDP (PAR) (56%); F (NYSE) (56%); MRO (NYSE) (54%); GM (NYSE) (52%); XOM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (81%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (81%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (54%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (76%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (76%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



952 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4751 words

HEADLINE: Dependent on Jail, City of Immigrants Fills Cells With Its Own

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: CENTRAL FALLS, R.I. 

 BODY:
Few in this threadbare little mill town gave much thought to the Donald W. Wyatt Detention Facility, the maximum-security jail beside the public ball fields at the edge of town. Even when it expanded and added barbed wire, Wyatt was just the backdrop for Little League games, its name stitched on the caps of the team it sponsored. 
 Then people began to disappear: the leader of a prayer group at St. Matthew's Roman Catholic Church; the father of a second grader at the public charter school; a woman who mopped floors in a Providence courthouse. 
 After days of searching, their families found them locked up inside Wyatt -- only blocks from home, but in a separate world. 
 In this mostly Latino city, hardly anyone had realized that in addition to detaining the accused drug dealers and mobsters everyone heard about, the jail held hundreds of people charged with no crime -- people caught in the nation's crackdown on illegal immigration. Fewer still knew that Wyatt was a portal into an expanding network of other jails, bigger and more remote, all propelling detainees toward deportation with little chance to protest.
 If anything, the people of Central Falls saw Wyatt as the economic engine that city fathers had promised, a steady source of jobs and federal money to pay for services like police and fire protection. Even that, it turns out, was an illusion.
 Wyatt offers a rare look into the fastest-growing, least-examined type of incarceration in America, an industry that detains half a million people a year, up from a few thousand just 15 years ago. The system operates without the rules that protect criminal suspects, and has grown up with little oversight, often in the backyards of communities desperate for any source of money and work.
 Last spring, The New York Times set out to examine this small city of 19,000 and its big detention center as a microcosm of the nation's new relationship with immigration detention, which is now sweeping up not just recent border-jumpers and convicted felons but foreign-born residents with strong ties to places like Central Falls. Wyatt, nationally accredited, clean and modern, seemed like one of the better jails in the system, a patchwork of county lockups, private prisons and federal detention centers where government investigations and the news media have recently documented substandard, sometimes lethal, conditions.
 But last summer, a detainee died in Wyatt's custody. Immigration authorities investigating the death removed all immigration detainees this month -- along with the $101.76 a day the federal government paid the jail for each one. In Central Falls, where many families have members without papers, a state campaign against illegal immigrants spread fear that also took a toll: People went into hiding and businesses lost Latino customers in droves. Slowly, the city awoke to its role in the detention system, and to the pitfalls of the bargain it had struck. 
 In a sinking economy, immigration detention is a rare growth industry. Congress has doubled annual spending on it in the last four years, to $2.4 billion approved in October as part of $5.9 billion allotted for immigration enforcement through next September -- even more than the Bush administration had requested. 
 Seeking a slice of that bounty, communities like Farmville, Va., and Pahrump, Nev., are signing up with developers of new detention centers. Jails from New England to New Mexico have already made the crackdown pay off -- for the private companies that dominate the industry, for some investors and, at least in theory, for places like Central Falls, a city so strapped that the state pays for its schools.
 Here, a specially created municipal corporation built the jail in the early 1990s to hold federal inmates, and last year more than doubled its size. As the City Council president, William Benson Jr., put it, ''The more inmates they have, the more money we get.''
 Yet in a community whose 1.3 square miles are said to be too small for secrets -- ''If you sneeze on Washington Street, someone on Pine Street says, 'Gesundheit,' '' Mr. Benson said -- city officials, overwhelmingly non-Latino, seemed uninformed about who those inmates were. ''Nobody knows exactly who's down there,'' he said. ''I hear some are Arab terrorists.'' 
 The mystery is in some ways understandable. Though immigration detainees made up one-third of the daily population and a majority of the 4,200 men and women who moved through Wyatt's 722 beds in a year, most were from other states, and those from Rhode Island did not remain long: Immigration and Customs Enforcement typically transferred them within a week.
 Some were legal immigrants who had served time for serious crimes. But increasingly they were the kind of people who in the past would not have been arrested -- people without papers, similar to some of the people who play, cheer and live in Wyatt's shadow. Sometimes the same people.
 Anthony Ventetuolo Jr., one of Wyatt's developers and now the jail's chief executive, said that who the inmates were made no difference to the jail, which was run like a business, under strict standards. ''I'm not interested in getting involved in the politics of immigration,'' he said. ''All we do is detain people that our clients tell us to detain.''
 Swallowed by the System
 Over 10 years, Maynor Cante, 26, hardly glanced at the jail he passed as he hurried between home, two jobs and St. Matthew's Church, where he led a prayer group.
 He was 15 when he left Guatemala in 1997, sneaking across the Mexican border to join seven older siblings, legal residents who had spent years scraping new lives out of the industrial ruins of Rhode Island's Blackstone Valley. Caught in Texas, the teenager was quickly let go pending a hearing, like so many arrested under the ''catch and release'' policy that prevailed while the nation's boom times demanded cheap immigrant labor. When he failed to show up in court, a deportation order was issued.
 A decade later, Mr. Cante spoke near-fluent English, and had spent thousands of dollars trying to legalize his status. Mornings, he cleaned a factory for $8 an hour. Evenings, he worked at his nephew's new clothing shop on Dexter Street, one of several Latino businesses that had revived a bleak stretch of vacant storefronts.
 Then, early one morning in October 2007 when he headed out the door for his cleaning job, five immigration agents hustled him into a van. That night, as frightened relatives tried to find him, he was delivered to Wyatt in chains.
 Inside, a plaque declares that the detention center's mission is ''to protect the public from people who pose a threat to society.'' One corridor, waxed to an immaculate shine, leads to a darkened control room where correction officers watch a dozen video monitors fed by 200 cameras. A guard can scan an entire unit housing 72 detainees in two- to four-man cells; zooming in on a card game, he can see that one player is holding hearts. 
 The jail was built for inmates awaiting trial on federal charges -- drug possession, child pornography, political corruption. But to help pay off $106 million borrowed for its recent expansion and refinancing, Wyatt was now counting on prisoners like Mr. Cante: administrative detainees not charged with a crime, but held while the government tries to deport them.
 Now he found himself slated for deportation without a hearing -- or even any way to make a phone call.
 ''I was scared,'' he said, recalling how he prayed the rosary and stared out the tiny window of his cell to watch a freight train pass at 6 a.m. 
 Outside, his sister Emma, 33, was distraught. Since their mother's death in 2006, she had felt more responsible for protecting Mr. Cante, a big-shouldered man who was still her little brother. ''Three days passed and we didn't know where he was,'' she said.
 On the fourth day, after calls to many jails, a high school friend located Mr. Cante, and members of his prayer circle flocked to Wyatt. His priest, the Rev. Otoniel J. Gomez, had never visited the jail in the eight years since he was sent to Central Falls from Colombia. He spoke to his weeping parishioner through a thick plexiglass barrier. 
 ''I thought, 'This is like a horror movie, talking with a criminal,' '' he said. 
 Yet the priest soon realized that Mr. Cante was lucky. ''Most of these people didn't have any relatives or friends near them,'' Father Gomez said, ''not even a lawyer.'' 
 The official list of free legal help was largely a dead end. Wyatt's expensive inmate telephone service was often useless, because it took days to set up an account, and it could not be used to call cellphones. Desperate, other detainees passed Mr. Cante phone numbers on scraps of paper, begging him to ask his visitors to call and tell where they were. 
 Out of Sight, Out of Reach
 Plucked from communities from Maine to New York, some had already been transferred through several jails; many would soon be moved again, as the federal immigration agency improvised to make space for detainees from new roundups.
 ''It's like having a room with five bathtubs and water coming in and out of each one to maintain an equilibrium,'' explained Todd Thurlow, acting deputy director of the Boston field office of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which contracts for about 1,000 beds in dozens of jails across New England.
 Wyatt had a reputation as one of the most professionally run. But for newcomers without help, it could be rough. 
 One complaint, echoed by former jail employees, was that detainees in pain from illness or injury often went without adequate treatment. Other detainees spoke of going hungry, like Edgar Bocce, 25, a Guatemalan cleaner who said two muscular inmates took away his first dinner tray -- rice, beans and spaghetti -- while guards did nothing. Spartan meals could be supplemented with food from the jail's commissary, but only if relatives sent money, or detainees stayed long enough to earn some; on the cleaning crew that kept the jail so spotless, starting pay was 40 cents a day. 
 Though officials said detainees were housed according to their history of violence, only one unit was dedicated to immigration detainees, and the rest were mixed in with criminal suspects and convicts.
 Perhaps the greatest frustration, inmates said, was their inability to make sense of what was happening to them. 
 ''Why am I here in jail?'' asked one, a Central Falls mechanic who had been seized at immigration headquarters in Providence when he went to check why his green card application was taking so long. Wyatt guards had no answers. ''They tell me, 'Sorry, guys, but we're not Immigration.' ''
 Mr. Cante's sisters borrowed money and hired him a lawyer. But a day after the lawyer's first visit, their brother was gone -- transferred to a Boston jail. That week, he was shackled and bused with 60 other men to detention in York, Pa., then put on a government plane with 300 chained immigrants.
 He ended up one of 2,000 detainees packed into a windowless tent city that had sprung up only a year earlier in Raymondville, Tex. -- the nation's largest immigration prison camp, run for profit and still growing.
 For weeks after his lawyer reopened his case for a hearing in Boston, she could not locate him. He was on the verge of deportation by the time she managed to persuade the government to fly him back from Texas, two days before last Christmas.
 Mr. Cante finally appeared before an immigration judge on Jan. 2, after three months in the detention maze. Because his case fell under the more lenient laws in force before 1997, he not only was released on bond, but allowed to work until his immigration hearing in December 2009. He is now trying to pay back thousands of dollars in loans and legal fees. 
 A Market for Inmates
 Mr. Cante, whose time in detention cost federal taxpayers about $10,000, was part of what many call an ''immigrant gold rush'' that turned the private prison industry from bust to boom.
 Across the country, starting in Texas in the 1980s, prison companies built jail cells on speculation as they rushed to cash in on the war on drugs. They overbuilt; abuse scandals and escapes soured many states on private prisons, and by the late 1990s, as competition for inmates increased, the companies' stock was suffering.
 Yet given the lure of easy financing and big fees for constructing deals, developers of prison space did not hold back on growth. Instead, big companies like the Corrections Corporation of America, the GEO Group (formerly Wackenhut) and the Cornell Companies added more beds and lobbied harder at the source of the most lucrative inmates, the federal government. 
 The payoff came after 9/11 in an accelerating stream of new detainees: foreigners swept up by the nation's rising furor over illegal immigration.
 Central Falls was similar, in its poverty, to more remote communities that had hitched their hopes to jails. Set in the river valley where America's industrial revolution was born, its textile mills had hired large immigrant families -- French Canadians and Poles, followed by Syrians and Portuguese -- and squeezed them into triple-decker tenements. Even after the work moved away, the mills' cheap housing continued to draw immigrants, mostly from Latin America. 
 The city was nearly bankrupt in 1990 when developers made a proposition: Build a profit-making jail for two or three hundred nonviolent federal detainees, and guarantee a steady stream of money and jobs for Central Falls. 
 But the deal that emerged, like many elsewhere, proved better at paying private investors than generating public revenue. The municipal corporation borrowed $30 million through a state bond issue to build Wyatt, and hired the Cornell company to run it. Six years later, the municipal body borrowed $38 million to refinance, buying back most of the bonds at a premium that gave the original bondholders a lump-sum return of 28.5 percent on their investment in addition to 9 percent annual interest.
 And from its opening party in November 1993, Wyatt ran into the same problem as its competitors: finding enough inmates. For a time it imported murderers and rapists by the busload from North Carolina's crowded prisons. When city residents objected, they learned that Central Falls had no control over who was housed at Wyatt and would get no money unless it was full.
 At best, Wyatt paid Central Falls $2 to $3 a day for each detainee -- less than $400,000 in the good years -- to offset its use of city services. At times when the flow of inmates faltered, payments slowed to a trickle. Yet, following the strange logic of prison growth, Cornell and Wyatt officials were soon pushing to refinance yet again and expand. 
 Thomas Lazieh, the mayor who had championed the deal that built Wyatt, defended it as the best the city could get. His successor, Lee Matthews, took a darker view and sued to stop the expansion. ''The city was sold a bill of goods,'' he said.
 Wyatt doubled in size anyway, with the backing of the current mayor, Charles D. Moreau. Convinced that it could wrest more revenue from the jail as immigration enforcement boomed, the municipal corporation took full control in August 2007. The budget it approved late that year included $6,000 a month for a Washington lobbyist to seek more detainees at higher rates.
 A Recession, and Raids
 By then, as in many parts of the country, people in Rhode Island were looking at Latino immigrants as prime suspects in a dismal economy. A polarizing immigration debate had converged with a huge state budget deficit and high unemployment. As this year began, resentment flared. 
 The catalyst was an ordinary New Year's feature in The Providence Journal about the first baby born in Rhode Island in 2008. Mother and newborn were still in the hospital when federal agents, spurred by the publicity, raided their apartment in Providence and took away the father on immigration violations. Afterward, the police said, the mother discovered that a roommate from Guatemala had hanged himself behind his locked bedroom door, apparently during the raid.
 The baby's father, initially held in secret at Wyatt, was eventually deported. A Guatemalan landscaper with two misdemeanor convictions, he had been ordered to leave the country in August 2007, but stayed, his lawyer said, because his fiancee, a United States citizen, was pregnant with their second child. 
 To some, the case illustrated how illegal immigrants, who make up less than 4 percent of Rhode Island's population, drained public services.
 ''Rhode Island taxpayers are the real victims!'' declared Alice Losasso of West Warwick, in a letter to The Journal. ''I'm tired of paying for interpreters so that immigrants can take their driver's test in whatever language they speak. I'm tired of finding that their girlfriends and children are on welfare.''
 Her words echoed a major theme of the governor, Donald L. Carcieri, a Republican. In March, he issued an executive order directing the State Police to help federal authorities round up illegal immigrants, saying that they depressed wages and strained services.
 Public approval for that order reached 75 percent in one poll after an illegal immigrant from Guatemala was charged with carjacking and raping a woman outside a mall. He had been arrested twice before by the Providence police, and already had an outstanding order of deportation. The governor appeared on the Bill O'Reilly program to accuse the Providence mayor of sheltering criminals. 
 In Central Falls, the crackdown sowed panic. At the public charter school two blocks from Wyatt, parents, already afraid to be photographed at school events, were now reluctant to drive to meetings, said Sarah Friedman, a founder of the school.
 An 8-year-old girl, one of the school's high-scoring students, stopped speaking in class when her father disappeared into detention, the girl's mother said. Without his income, mother and daughter, United States citizens, were almost evicted from their apartment. 
 At Central Falls High School, some students stopped coming to class because their families had gone into hiding, said Margie Cruz, a school-home liaison: ''The child was born here, the child is legal. But the family has to hide because the father will be deported.
 ''I've seen students stopped for a traffic violation and the whole family got deported,'' she added. ''Children that were here for years. I watched them grow up.'' 
 One longtime Little League mother said she used to worry that child molesters could be watching from the jail windows. Now, she said, she worried that her sister's children would end up inside -- the niece who had just graduated from high school with no path to legal status; the nephew who had been taught that local Quakers hid fugitive slaves, and asked his aunt to hide him if his parents were detained. 
 They were part of a generation of Central Falls teenagers born abroad who were coming of age as outlaws in their own town. Some had already lost relatives, like the 14-year-old whose older brother had made a left turn on red and ended up in a detention odyssey that led to deportation.
 ''My mother's afraid the same thing that happened to my brother could happen to me, because I play soccer, I'm out there,'' he said.
 A few blocks from Wyatt, Police Chief Joseph P. Moran III praised the jail as ''a great neighbor -- it keeps things under control.'' But he went on to tell about the difficulty of investigating the killing of a Dominican cabdriver, because witnesses had not come forward for fear of deportation. He talked of the blurring line between police work and immigration enforcement. 
 One domestic violence call by a husband illustrated the new reality. After a routine computer check, both he and his wife were taken into police custody, and her 8-month-old baby was handed to a friend. The man had an outstanding bench warrant; his wife had a deportation warrant issued by immigration authorities -- something not included in the police database a few years ago.
 ''We work hand in hand with ICE,'' Chief Moran said. At the same time, he added: ''I have friends from Honduras, Ecuador. My kids went to school here. It makes it very, very difficult.''
 Profit and Loss
 For defenders of the jail, the bottom line has always been the bottom line: Wyatt's growth meant more federal money for the city. 
 ''They're going to detain them somewhere,'' said the manager of Mr. Williams True Styles Barbershop, on the struggling Dexter Street commercial strip. ''It's a billion-dollar business. Unless we're going to free them, what difference does it make?'' 
 But at least in Central Falls, the incarceration economy was not delivering on its promise.
 In late June, Mayor Moreau, a big man with a florid face and a police siren in his car, offered up a budget that laid off firefighters -- and told angry city employees to get used to it.
 ''We're at the end of the financial rope for Central Falls,'' he told the City Council, citing more than 200 boarded-up homes, foreclosures at the rate of 25 a week, and cuts in state and federal aid that required a 4 percent property tax increase and an 8 percent spending cut in the new $17.4 million budget.
 Outside, past the defunct factory where Hasbro once made G. I. Joe, beyond the rusty hulk of the downsized Sylvania plant, the summer twilight gleamed on Wyatt's new facade.
 What had happened to the windfall of money and jobs it had offered?
 The jail's annual revenue had almost doubled in a year, to $21 million, mainly from increasing immigration detention. But the city budget projected revenue of only $525,000 from Wyatt, which is exempt from taxes.
 That was not even enough to cover its share of city services, according to an estimate by the city's finance department. It was certainly nothing like the $2 million a year that Mr. Benson, the City Council president, had mentioned to a reporter in April. The mayor, he said, predicted the city would get that much in profits formerly reaped by the Cornell Companies, now that the local board had taken over. Neither the mayor nor the board members, unpaid mayoral appointees, would talk about Wyatt. 
 As for jobs, only 10 of about 200 Wyatt employees lived in Central Falls. The jail's board was even declining to make the $1,500 donations to local groups it once supported, like a scholarship fund and youth football. 
 Mr. Ventetuolo, the Wyatt chief executive, would not say how much had been saved by dispensing with Cornell's for-profit services, maintaining that it had all gone toward keeping prices low for the federal government. Wyatt was still in transition, he said, striving to fill new beds to meet soaring payments to bondholders, now up to $8.4 million yearly from $2.7 million under the terms of the latest refinancing.
 Yet Mr. Ventetuolo's consulting company had won a raise, to $230,000 from $156,000. And as the number of detainees increased, so did revenue from surcharges on their collect calls to relatives, under a contract with Global Tel Link that gave Wyatt a cut of about $564,000 a year. That arrangement had survived a state ban on phone surcharges at prisons, thanks to lobbying that gave Wyatt a loophole.
 Other large fees went to lawyers and financiers, as Mr. Matthews, the former mayor, pointed out. ''There just happens to be a lot of money made by folks other than the people of the City of Central Falls,'' he said. 
 Out in the Open
 City officials in Central Falls -- mostly descendants of earlier immigrants -- were mindful that they presided over a community at least 60 percent Latino, where fear of the immigration crackdown was widespread.
 At the same time, the city had built its hopes for economic stability on a jail that was helping to make that crackdown possible. The combination created a local immigration politics that sometimes verged on denial.
 But last summer, Wyatt itself was suddenly caught in the glare of the state's crackdown.
 On the evening of July 15, a dozen State Police officers and 50 immigration agents swept into six courthouses across the state. They arrested 31 cleaners on suspicion of immigration violations, people paid $7.40 an hour to vacuum floors and scrub toilets in Rhode Island's halls of justice. All worked for two large state contractors, one owned by the brother of a state legislator allied with Governor Carcieri. 
 In the uproar that followed, experiences that had been private in cases like Mr. Cante's were put on public display: the difficulty of locating those in custody; the distress of relatives, many of them legal residents or citizens; the absence of basic legal protections familiar to anyone who watches ''Law & Order.'' Advocates eventually located most of the cleaners. Four were at Wyatt, including a 29-year-old single mother detained in its new women's unit. 
 Two days after the raids, as city officials raised the Colombian flag over City Hall to honor that nation's Independence Day, Mayor Moreau criticized the roundup, and chided Governor Carcieri for spending law enforcement resources on it.
 ''We have better things to do,'' he said, ''than chasing the lady that cleans the attorney general's office.''
 A reporter asked how he squared that criticism with Wyatt's role in holding illegal immigrants, including the cleaning woman locked up there.
 ''One has nothing to do with the other,'' he retorted. ''It has nothing to do with the City of Central Falls.''
 Soon, a case that drew national attention made that distinction harder to maintain.
 On Aug. 6, Hiu Lui Ng, 34, a Chinese computer engineer from New York who had overstayed a visa, died in Wyatt's custody after a year in various detention centers and months in pain.
 The Times reported a week later that despite his repeated pleas for help, his fractured spine and extensive cancer had gone undiagnosed until shortly before his death. Officials at Wyatt, where he spent his last month, said he had received plenty of medical attention, and immigration authorities started an internal investigation. But local pastors and Latino advocacy groups gathered outside Wyatt on Aug. 15 to demand an independent inquiry. 
 A guard who watched the demonstration, who asked that his name not be published for fear of losing his job, voiced the ambivalence toward Wyatt that seems to shape the attitudes of many in Central Falls.
 He spoke with sympathy of ''good, hard-working people'' detained there, and with distaste of the rookie guards -- a result of low pay and high turnover -- ''who talk to people with no respect, like they're dogs.''
 But he added: ''Immigration and all that, that has nothing to do with us. We're just the prison.''
 Even in the Latino population, the new awareness of Wyatt stirred little resistance. 
 ''If the Spanish were all registered to vote they could take the city in one election,'' observed Councilman Benson. ''A lot of them don't vote because they don't trust the government, and a lot of them are illegal, so they can't.''
 In contrast, Mr. Cante, who finally had proper papers, said he felt like part of Central Falls for the first time.
 ''In all these years I've been here illegally, everywhere I went, everything I used to do, I used to feel like a reject,'' he said. ''Now I feel like I've been accepted for the community. I don't feel afraid anymore. I feel, like, free.''
 Just how closely Central Falls was entwined in the business of locking up people like Mr. Cante became more obvious this month, when Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials, citing their continuing investigation into Mr. Ng's death, abruptly removed all immigration detainees from Wyatt, scattering them to other jails in New England, Texas and Louisiana. 
 With Wyatt's solvency, if not its survival, uncertain, the mayor lobbied the state's Congressional delegation to get back a share of the growing market in immigration detainees. Meanwhile, jail officials hunted for deals like the one they narrowly lost last spring, to house 80 Vermont inmates judged criminally insane for crimes like murder and rape. 
 Mr. Lazieh, the former mayor who first championed Wyatt, called the government's immigration policies immoral, arguing that ''the system has gone overboard -- we've turned to criminalizing all immigrants.'' 
 But he had no regrets about his city's part. ''If it's not in Central Falls,'' he said, ''then this facility would be someplace else.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Donald W. Wyatt Detention Facility in Central Falls, R.I., was built on the hope that it would revive the city's economy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
HELP WANTED: Guard recruits at the Wyatt detention center in Central Falls, R.I. Few of its employees live in the city.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A12) SWEPT UP: Maynor Cante, left, leads a prayer group at St. Matthew's Roman Catholic Church in Central Falls, where he arrived from Guatemala more than a decade ago. Arrested by immigration agents in October 2007, he was held in detention centers in four states over three months.
OLD NEIGHBORS AND NEW More than 200 homes are boarded up in Central Falls, a city of 19,000 that was nearly bankrupt when officials proposed building the Wyatt detention center. Public ball fields, right, abut the jail. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A13) CHART: Spending on detention by Immigration and Customs Enforcement has risen, along with the number of detainees. Chart details Detained during the year, thousands
and Federal spending, billions.
A Growing Detention Network: People picked up on suspicion of immigration violations are held in a patchwork of detention centers. Most of the largest are privately run.(Sources: Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Congressional Research Service
Yahoo Finance
company Web sites) Charts detail map of US
 pie chart and line graph for Weekly stock price of three largest companies, indexed to Jan. 2001.(FORD FESSENDEN AND NINA BERNSTEIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); PRISONS (90%); FAMILY (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); DEPORTATION (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); FELONIES (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); ORGANIZED CRIME (73%); PRISON PRIVATIZATION (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); YOUTH SPORTS (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); RELIGION (71%); ACCREDITATION (70%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (65%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (55%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



953 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
Find worldly comfort on a coffee plantation and spiritual calm in an ancient temple on this Indonesian island. At top left, tourists watching the sunrise from the eighth-century temple of Borobudur outside Yogyakarta. The temple is hailed by Indonesians as the eighth wonder of the world. At bottom left, a couple watching Mount Merapi from a nearby village. The mountain, technically an active volcano, has been quiet for years. 
nytimes.com/travel
SLIDESHOW: SAN FRANCISCO'S HIP COCKTAILS
In the Bay Area, a growing scene of local distillers and bartenders capable of wielding their elixirs to maximum effect has emerged. With wry flair, they combine technical perfection with subtle, undeniable showmanship and an eagerness to experiment with Northern California's agricultural bounty.
nytimes.com/travel
VIDEO: JAILING THEIR OWN IN AN IMMIGRANT TOWN
Locking up unauthorized immigrants for deportation is a growth industry. The jail in Central Falls, R.I., cashed in, but in a town full of immigrants, the result is a community living in fear.
nytimes.com/nnational
AUDIO: WEEKEND BUSINESS: YEAR IN REVIEW
Jeff Sommer, Gretchen Morgenson, Vikas Bajaj and David Leonhardt discuss the extraordinary issues faced by the economy and the markets in 2008, and the prospects for 2009.
nytimes.com/business
Laugh Lines '08 Comedy in Revue
It was a funny year: a governor gone rogue, a reverend gone wild and everyone's favorite Prada-wearing hockey mom.
nytimes.com/laughlines
Paper Cuts The View From Revolutionary Hill
Five years before Richard Yates's ''Revolutionary Road,'' a first-time author named John Keats wrote a best-selling book called ''The Crack in the Picture Window,'' a journalistic screed against postwar Levittown-style development.
nytimes.com/papercuts
Wheels Tough Times For the Tata Nano
The Tata Nano, with a projected price of about $2,500, was hailed as the world's cheapest car when it was introduced in January, but nearly a year later there is still no factory to build it.
nytimes.com/wheels
Motherlode Parenting Lessons From Marley
As in ''Marley and Me,'' getting a dog can be good preparation for having children.
nytimes.com/motherlode

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Journey Through Java: Find worldly comfort on a coffee plantation and spiritual calm in an ancient temple on this Indonesian island. At top left, tourists watching the sunrise from the eighth-century temple of Borobudur outside Yogyakarta. The temple is hailed by Indonesians as the eighth wonder of the world. At bottom left, a couple watching MountMerapi from a nearby village. The mountain, technically an active volcano, has been quiet for years. nytimes.com/travel (PHOTOGRAPH BY LYNSEY ADDARIO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); COFFEE (78%); WRITERS (69%); DEPORTATION (68%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (68%); BESTSELLERS (64%); PARENTING (64%); PETS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



954 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1549 words

HEADLINE: Reassessing Safety of Bonds

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
For people in or near retirement, bonds were supposed to provide a sense of security.
 But for some investors, they did precisely the opposite. Bonds of all stripes have taken sizable hits this year. The losses have not been as agonizing as the 40 percent decline in the stock market, of course, but any loss is particularly painful for people who count on these investments as a safety net.
 ''There haven't been any safe places to hide, with the exception of Treasuries,'' said Miriam Sjoblom, a mutual fund analyst at Morningstar. ''That has been a surprise to some investors.''
 Several diversified bond funds have held their own -- largely because they contained a healthy helping of Treasuries -- which underscores the importance of diversification. 
 But for some older Americans, even that relative safety is not enough to allay their concerns. Lehman Brothers and Washington Mutual were top-rated bonds -- until they were not. Even some money-market funds have run into trouble.
 ''Fixed income should be ultrasafe,'' said Steve Podnos, a financial planner in Merritt Island, Fla. ''The return of principal is more important than the return on principal.''
 That is a popular mantra, especially now. Ultrasafe comes at a cost, however, and there are not many bulletproof investments that yield more than 2 or 3 percent, experts said. For the risk-averse, that might be plenty when you just do not know what might lurk around the corner.
 And because conditions may worsen before they improve, older investors should check that their bond investments are indeed what they thought they were -- and that they fit their tolerance for risk. ''We are in a 2 to 3 percent world, and if they want to earn more than that they need to proceed cautiously,'' said Gary Cloud, a bond manager at Financial Counselors in Kansas City, Mo.
 Several advisers and bond experts recommended that investors maintain higher cash reserves than they might in more normal times. Keeping two to three of years of living expenses in extremely safe investments, like a certificate of deposit or a money market account at a large financial institution, can provide some breathing room. That way, investors will not be forced to sell investments at an inopportune time.
 Investors also need to remember that bond funds and individual bonds work a bit differently. With an individual bond, investors are guaranteed to receive their original investment back after it matures, as long as the company does not implode. With bond funds, there is no such guarantee because the value of the bonds inside will fluctuate with market conditions. That means the value of the investment will vary, too.
 Of course, a sizable pile of money is needed to build a portfolio of individual bonds as opposed to simply purchasing a bond fund. Opinions vary widely -- from $50,000 to $500,000 -- on the amount needed to be properly diversified, though several experts agree it can be done with about $100,000 to $200,000. It is probably best to sit down with an adviser, preferably a fee-only adviser or one that charges by the hour, to go through the pros, cons and costs of each.
 Some advisers have strong feelings about both instruments. Some refuse to use bond funds because they say they do not know what they own, though that problem can be addressed by using index funds, whose investments remain relatively static. Other advisers say they cannot attain the level of diversification with individual issues. Whatever you decide, knowing what you own and understanding the risks involved are what really matters. And if a bond investment promises high returns, a little mental bell should go off as a warning signal.
 ''We see a lot of retirees come in and they have a lot of their fixed-income investments in aggressive funds,'' said Richard Rosso, a financial planner with Charles Schwab in Houston. ''They have gotten seduced by the yield of the fund and didn't look at how that yield was being derived.''
 Instead, investors should anchor their portfolios with a fund, or combination of funds, that hold wide swaths of high-quality government-backed, corporate and mortgage-backed bonds -- with short- to intermediate-term maturities, experts said. (Shorter-term securities are less sensitive to changes in interest rates; when rates rise, bond prices fall). Low expenses are extremely important because bond funds do not yield much to begin with. The Vanguard Total Bond Market Index fund fits that bill. It is up nearly 5 percent this year and charges a rock-bottom 0.07 percent of assets. Two actively managed options, Harbor Bond, managed by Bill Gross of Pimco, and FPA New Income -- up 2.2 percent and 4.03 percent, respectively -- are considered strong choices where capital preservation is a top priority, Ms. Sjoblom of Morningstar said. But, of course, they are more expensive.
 Beyond a fund like the Vanguard Total Bond Market, advisers also recommend adding a dose of international bonds as well as Treasury inflation-protected securities, or TIPS, whose interest payments and underlying principal keep pace with inflation. Deflation fears are trumping inflation fears, at least for the moment, which has caused the price of TIPS to drop. But the government has printed a lot of new money and is expected to keep doing so, experts said.
 ''There is a possibility that inflation will heat up in the future, so why not add money as a hedge for future inflation?'' said Mr. Rosso, especially now, when TIPS are attractively priced. He recommends limiting allocation of these to no more than 10 percent of bonds in a portfolio. They can be purchased directly (but keep those in a tax-deferred account) or in a fund or exchange-traded fund.
 Meanwhile, high-quality municipal bonds -- or funds -- may be appropriate for certain investors. Because municipal bonds are generally tax-free, they tend to pay less in interest than their taxable counterparts, and normally make sense only for people in the highest tax brackets. But many top-rated municipal bonds are now yielding more than taxable bonds, which makes them attractive to a broader population, experts said. Despite budgetary troubles in places like New York and California, and the economic headwinds all municipalities face, advisers said sticking with the highest-quality short- and intermediate-term general obligation munis -- or those backed by a municipality's taxing power -- are a reasonably safe bet.
 ''You can make the argument that anyone will do better owning that,'' Mr. Podnos said. Long-term municipal bond funds have lost 10.5 percent for the year as of Wednesday, and shorter-term funds are up 0.5 percent, according to Morningstar. Short- and intermediate-term funds are not subject to as much volatility, he said, and will produce a combined tax-free yield of 3 to 4 percent, the equivalent of a 5 to 6 percent taxable yield.
 For investors with even less tolerance for risk, advisers recommend the following:
 C.D.'S Certificates of deposit, which pay a fixed interest rate but lock up money for three months to five years, are guaranteed by the government for up to $250,000 for each depositor at each bank. Guarantees are scheduled to drop to $100,000 for each depositor at the end of next year. Callable C.D.'s may offer even higher yields, but remember that you are being paid more to take on extra risk: the bank can return your money before the C.D. matures, so you may have to reinvest at a potentially lower rate, Mr. Rosso said. And keep in mind that C.D.'s will penalize you, sometimes substantially, if you withdraw before maturity.
 F.D.I.C. BONDS These government-backed bonds come with variable or fixed rates. They tend to pay more than Treasuries, with several batches of three-year bonds paying slightly more than 3 percent, though newer bonds have been paying slightly less. They have largely been issued by large financial institutions -- like JPMorgan and Wells Fargo participating in the government program that was created in October to help bolster the credit markets. The debt will be sold through next June and must mature in less than three years. Before you consider these, check whether there are comparable deals in C.D.'s.
 GINNIE MAE Not to be confused with Fannie or Freddie, Ginnie is owned by the government and issues securities that are backed by federally guaranteed or insured mortgages. Translation: these are safe. Several advisers recommend Ginnie Mae funds -- or the actual securities -- as a higher-yielding alternative (about 2 percent) to money-market funds. But there is a big caveat: If interest rates move higher, the value of these securities will drop, Mr. Podnos said.
 PRE-REFUNDED MUNIS Pre-refunded municipal bonds, along with escrowed-to-maturity municipals, are solid options because the payments the bond issuer must make to investors over the life of the bond are held in an escrow fund, usually comprising United States government securities. The yields tend to pay about two percentage points above Treasuries with a comparable maturity, said William Larkin, a fixed-income manager at Cabot Money Management. Just be sure the collateral is Treasuries. ''It's the safest of the safe,'' added Marilyn Cohen, president of Envision Capital Management. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROBERT NEUBECKER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); BONDS (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (89%); BOND FUNDS (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (52%) MISSOURI, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2008



955 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COST OF LIVING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Reconciling Approaches To Money

BYLINE: By M. P. DUNLEAVEY

 BODY:
MANY couples scrap about money, but when life is running smoothly, more or less, it's easy to let financial differences simmer without feeling the need to do anything about them.
 A nasty economic crisis is a serious mood-changer. It has a way of seeping into your life and exacerbating every point of financial tension you ever have experienced with your partner. 
 In normal times, the prospect of forging genuine financial compatibility lingers at the bottom of the to-do list, with household favorites like toilet repairs and cleaning out the garage. Add some urgent panic about money, though, and it may be the moment to roll up your sleeves and actually attempt to reconcile. 
 The process can be painful, but illuminating. One woman I spoke to, whose husband works in finance, said that his intense frustration -- about their battered personal investments and his difficulties at work -- have been spilling over at home in a stream of relentless criticism. Recently he yelled at her for the way she'd chopped the onions for a stew.
 He seemed like a different person, she said. He wasn't. But until now they had managed to keep their financial lives separate from their marriage -- His and Hers. The system worked while life was steady, but now real communication was required. And she realized that, for a thousand reasons, including the tyranny of habit, they had never learned to deal with situations like this. 
 As unpleasant as a down economy can be, one upside is that it can give couples a chance to improve these long-standing dynamics.
 ''Everybody has predictable ways that they behave under stress,'' said Lois Braverman, president of the Ackerman Institute for the Family in New York, which specializes in family therapy. Your reaction to financial problems is likely to follow patterns you already know, she said.
 If your standard response to high anxiety is to sit in front of the TV with some Ben & Jerry's, ''ask yourself how that will influence the dynamic in your relationship,'' Ms. Braverman said. You probably know the answer. Most money conflicts travel a well-worn path.
 I'm a worrier and a planner, my husband is not, and that's not news to either of us. But when I woke him up at 3 a.m. a few times this fall to tear my hair about our tanking retirement accounts, our spending, our dismal future -- he was ready to outsource me to a psychiatrist. It became clear that we didn't have the luxury of dodging this source of friction.
 We worked out a compromise that was long overdue: I'm finding other outlets for my anxiety (yoga, cooking, campy sitcoms); he now uses various forms of the verb ''to plan'' (I am planning, we should plan, let's plan) with a frequency that I find soothing.
 Of course, what makes finding any sort of middle ground so challenging is that money troubles are rarely just about finances. Each person brings goals, dreams, values, habits, whole long histories to a relationship. It can take years to knit that together into something resembling financial intimacy. Trust me: I'm still stitching away.
 ANGELA FRIEDMAN, a social worker in Las Vegas, says that she and her husband have always had opposite money styles. ''I'm type A; I look at the numbers,'' she said. ''He's more laid back.'' Normally they work around their differences, but the tension got so unbearable in recent months that she woke up every morning wondering if she was going to get a divorce. 
 Strange to say, their finances were stable, she said. But the grim economic news had caused her own anxiety to escalate out of control. ''When times are tough, I turn into a hoarder,'' Ms. Friedman said. ''My husband chafes under that. So the more I clamped down, the more he wanted to go out. It's a vicious cycle.''
 They went into counseling, and Ms. Friedman is trying to rein in her fears. 
 Tilting one's head to see that the glass is half-full also helps. ''I remind myself that we're not upside down on a jumbo mortgage, that we don't have $70,000 in credit card debt,'' she said. ''You have to be grateful for the things you forget to be grateful for.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); FAMILY (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (63%); YOGA (63%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (61%)

COMPANY: BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2008



956 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: DOWNTURN ENDS CITY'S BOOM TIME IN CONSTRUCTION

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
Nearly $5 billion in development projects in New York City have been delayed or canceled because of the economic crisis, an extraordinary body blow to an industry that last year provided 130,000 unionized jobs, according to numbers tracked by a local trade group.
 The setbacks for development -- perhaps the single greatest economic force in the city over the last two decades -- are likely to mean, in the words of one researcher, that the landscape of New York will be virtually unchanged for two years.
 ''There's no way to finance a project,'' said the researcher, Stephen R. Blank of the Urban Land Institute, a nonprofit group.
 Charles Blaichman is not about to argue with that assessment. Looking south from the eighth floor of a half-finished office tower on 14th Street on a recent day, Mr. Blaichman pointed to buildings he had developed in the meatpacking district. But when he turned north to the blocks along the High Line, once among the most sought-after areas for development, he surveyed a landscape of frustration: the planned sites of three luxury hotels, all stalled by recession. 
 Several indicators show that developers nationwide have also been affected by the tighter lending markets. The growth rate for construction and land development loans shrunk drastically this year -- to 0.08 percent through September, compared with 11.3 percent for all of 2007 and 25.7 percent in 2006, according to data tracked by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
 And developers who have loans are missing payments. The percentage of loans in default nationwide jumped to 7.3 percent through September 2008, compared with 1 percent in 2007, according to data tracked by Reis Inc., a New York-based real estate research company.
 New York's development world is rife with such stories as developers who have been busy for years are killing projects or scrambling to avoid default because of the credit crunch.
 Mr. Blaichman, who has built two dozen projects in the past 20 years, is struggling to borrow money: $370 million for the three hotels, which include a venture with Jay-Z, the hip-hop mogul. A year ago, it would have seemed a reasonable amount for Mr. Blaichman. Not now.
 ''Even the banks who want to give us money can't,'' he said.
 The long-term impact is potentially immense, experts said. Construction generated more than $30 billion in economic activity in New York last year, said Louis J. Coletti, the chief executive of the Building Trades Employers' Association. The $5 billion in canceled or delayed projects tracked by Mr. Coletti's association include all types of construction: luxury high-rise buildings, office renovations for major banks and new hospital wings. Mr. Coletti's association, which represents 27 contractor groups, is talking to the trade unions about accepting wage cuts or freezes. So far there is no deal.
 Not surprisingly, unemployment in the construction industry is soaring: in October, it was up by more than 50 percent from the same period last year, labor statistics show.
 Experience does not seem to matter. Over the past 15 years, Josh Guberman, 48, developed 28 condo buildings in Brooklyn and Manhattan, many of them purchased by well-paid bankers. He is cutting back to one project in 2009.
 Donald Capoccia, 53, who has built roughly 4,500 condos and moderate-income housing units in all five boroughs, took the day after Thanksgiving off, for the first time in 20 years, because business was so slow. He is shifting his attention to projects like housing for the elderly on Staten Island, which the government seems willing to finance.
 Some of their better known and even wealthier counterparts are facing the same problems. In August, Deutsche Bank started foreclosure proceedings against William S. Macklowe over his planned project at the former Drake Hotel on Park Avenue. Kent M. Swig, Mr. Macklowe's son-in-law, recently shut down the sales office for a condo tower planned for 25 Broad Street after his lender, Lehman Brothers, declared bankruptcy in September. Several commercial and residential brokers said they were spending nearly half their days advising developers who are trying to find new uses for sites they fear will not be profitable.
 ''That rug has been pulled out from under their feet,'' said David Johnson, a real estate broker with Eastern Consolidated who was involved with selling the site for the proposed hotel to Mr. Blaichman, Jay-Z and their business partners for $66 million, which included the property and adjoining air rights. Mr. Johnson said that because many banks are not lending, the only option for many developers is to take on debt from less traditional lenders like foreign investors or private equity firms that charge interest rates as high as 20 percent.
 That doesn't mean that all construction in New York will grind to a halt immediately. Mr. Guberman is moving forward with one condo tower at 87th Street and Broadway that awaits approval for a loan; he expects it will attract buyers even in a slowing economy. Mr. Capoccia is trying to finish selling units at a Downtown Brooklyn condominium project, and is slowly moving ahead on applying for permits for an East Village project. 
 Mr. Blaichman, 54, is keeping busy with four buildings financed before the slowdown. He has found fashion and advertising firms to rent space in his tower at 450 West 14th Street and buyers for two downtown condo buildings. He recently rented a Lower East Side building to the School of Visual Arts as a dorm.
 Mr. Blaichman had success in Greenwich Village and the meatpacking district, where he developed the private club SoHo House, the restaurant Spice Market and the Theory store. He had similar hopes for the area along the High Line, where he bought properties last year when they were fetching record prices. 
 An art collector, he considered the area destined for growth because of its many galleries and its proximity to the park being built on elevated railroad tracks that have given the area its name. The park, which extends 1.45 miles from Gansevoort Street to 34th Street, is expected to be completed in the spring. 
 Other developers have shown that buyers will pay high prices to be in the area. Condo projects designed by well-known architects like Jean Nouvel and Annabelle Selldorf have been eagerly anticipated. In recent months, buyers have paid $2 million for a two-bedroom unit and $3 million for a three-bedroom at Ms. Selldorf's project, according to Streeteasy.com, a real estate Web site.
 ''It's one of the greatest stretches of undeveloped areas,'' Mr. Blaichman said. ''I still think it's going to take off.''
 In August 2007, Mr. Blaichman bought the site and air rights of a former Time Warner Cable warehouse. He thought the neighborhood needed its first full-service five-star hotel, in contrast to the many boutique hotels sprouting up downtown. So with his partners, Jay-Z and Abram and Scott Shnay, he envisioned a hotel with a pool, gym, spa and multiple restaurants under a brand called J Hotels. But since his mortgage brokers started shopping in late summer for roughly $200 million in financing, they have only one serious prospect for a lender. 
 For now, he is seeking an extension on the mortgage -- monthly payments are to begin in the coming months -- and trying to rent the warehouse. (He currently has no income from the property.) 
 It is perhaps small comfort that his fellow developers are having as many problems getting loans. Shaya Boymelgreen had banks ''pull back'' recently on financing for a 107-unit rental tower the developer is building at 500 West 23rd Street, according to Sara Mirski, managing director of development for Boymelgreen Developers. The half-finished project looked abandoned on two recent visits, but Ms. Mirski said that construction will continue. Banks have ''invited'' the developer to reapply for a loan next year and have offered interim bridge loans for up to $30 million.
 Mr. Blaichman cuts a more mellow figure than many other developers do. He avoids the real estate social scene, tries to turn his cellphone off after 6 p.m. and plays folk guitar in his spare time. 
 For now, Mr. Blaichman seems stoic about his plight. At a diner, he polished off a Swiss-cheese omelet and calmly noted that he had no near-term way to pay off his debts. He exercises several times a week and tells his three children to curb their shopping even as he regularly presses his mortgage bankers for answers. 
 ''I sleep pretty well,'' Mr. Blaichman said. ''There's nothing you can do in the middle of the night that will help your projects.''
 But even when the lending market improves -- in months, or years -- restarting large-scale projects will not be a quick process. A freeze in development, in fact, could continue well after the recession ends.
 Mr. Blank of the Urban Land Institute said he has taken to giving the following advice to real estate executives: ''We told them to take up golf.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 31, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about the end of the building boom in New York City referred incorrectly to the family relationship between the developers William S. Macklowe, whose planned project at the former Drake Hotel is in foreclosure, and Kent M. Swig, who shut down the sales office for a condominium tower on Broad Street after his lender, Lehman Brothers, declared bankruptcy. Mr. Swig is Mr. Macklowe's brother-in-law, not his son-in-law.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles Blaichman, at an unfinished tower at West 14th Street, is struggling to finance three proposed hotels by the High Line.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); HIP HOP CULTURE (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (64%); RAP MUSIC (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (66%); REIS INC (65%)

TICKER: REIS (NASDAQ) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (66%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (66%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (65%)

PERSON: JAY-Z (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2008



957 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Stop Being Stupid

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
I've got a new year's resolution and a new slogan for the country.
 The resolution may be difficult, but it's essential. Americans must resolve to be smarter going forward than we have been for the past several years.
 Look around you. We have behaved in ways that were incredibly, astonishingly and embarrassingly stupid for much too long. We've wrecked the economy and mortgaged the future of generations yet unborn. We don't even know if we'll have an automobile industry in the coming years. It's time to stop the self-destruction. 
 The slogan? ''Invest in the U.S.'' By that I mean we should stop squandering the nation's wealth on unnecessary warfare overseas and mindless consumption here at home and start making sensible investments in the well-being of the American people and the long-term health of the economy.
 The mind-boggling stupidity that we've indulged in was hammered home by a comment almost casually delivered by, of all people, Bernie Madoff, the mild-mannered creator of what appears to have been a nuclear-powered Ponzi scheme. Madoff summed up his activities with devastating simplicity. He is said to have told the F.B.I. that he ''paid investors with money that wasn't there.''
 Somehow, over the past few decades, that has become the American way: to pay for things -- from wars to Wall Street bonuses to flat-screen TVs to video games -- with money that wasn't there.
 Something for nothing became the order of the day. You want to invade Iraq? Convince yourself that oil revenues out of Baghdad will pay for it. (Meanwhile, carve out another deficit channel in the federal budget.) You want to pump up profits in the financial sector? End the oversight and let the lunatics in the asylum run wild.
 For those who wanted a bigger house in a nicer neighborhood, there were mortgages with absurdly easy terms. Credit-card offers came in the mail like confetti, and we used them like there was no tomorrow. For students stunned by the skyrocketing cost of tuition, there were college loans that could last a lifetime.
 Money that wasn't there.
 Plenty of people managed their credit wisely. But much of the country, including many of the top government officials and financial titans who were supposed to be guarding the nation's wealth, acted as if there would never be a day of reckoning, a day when -- inevitably -- the soaring markets would crash and the bubbles explode.
 We were stupid in so many ways. We shipped American jobs overseas by the millions and came up with the fiction that this was a good deal for just about everybody. We could have and should have taken the time and made the effort to think globalization through, to be smarter about it and craft ways to cushion its more harmful effects and to share its benefits more equitably.
 We bought into the dopey idea that you could radically cut taxes and still maintain critical government services -- and fight two wars to boot! 
 We were living in a dream world. The general public, and to a great extent the press, closed its eyes to the increasingly complex and baffling machinations of the financial industry, which kept screaming that oversight would ruin everything.
 We should have known better. It didn't require a genius (or even an economics degree) to understand a crucial point that popped up some years ago in a front-page article in The Wall Street Journal: ''Markets are a great way to organize economic activity, but they need adult supervision.''
 Did Alan Greenspan not understand that? Bob Rubin? Larry Summers?
 Now that the reality of a stunning economic downturn has so roughly intervened, we at least have the option of being smarter going forward. There is broad agreement that we have no choice but to go much more deeply into debt to jump-start the economy. But we have tremendous choices as to how we use that debt.
 We should use it to invest in the U.S. -- in a world-class infrastructure (in its broadest sense) to serve as the platform for a world-class, 21st-century economy, and in a system of education that actually prepares American youngsters to deal successfully with the real world they will be encountering.
 We need to invest in a health care system that improves the quality of American lives, enhances productivity, puts large numbers of additional people to work and eases the competitive burden of U.S. corporations.
 We need to care for our environment (if long-term survival means anything to us) and get serious about weaning ourselves from foreign oil.
 And, finally, we need to start living within our means and get past the nauseating idea that the essence of our culture and the be-all and end-all of the American economy is the limitless consumption of trashy consumer goods.
 It's time to stop being stupid. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); BUDGETS (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); TUITION FEES (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); PONZI SCHEMES (66%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (65%); STUDENT LOANS (60%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (50%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (53%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2008



958 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: Kennedy Talks of Seeking Senate

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
In her first substantial interviews since declaring her interest in joining the United States Senate, Caroline Kennedy talked on Friday about her qualifications for the office and what it means to have one of the most famous last names in American politics. 
 ''In our family in particular there is a sense we have to work twice as hard -- people have this perception, and we are fortunate,'' Ms. Kennedy said. ''But I think it's a question what you do with that opportunity.''
 She said that if appointed senator next year by Gov. David A. Paterson, she would focus on securing economic aid for the state, overhauling the nation's health care system, and school issues. 
 Ms. Kennedy, 51, said her experiences as a mother and writer, as well as her work as a fund-raiser for New York City schools, had prepared her to succeed Hillary Rodham Clinton, who is expected to be confirmed as secretary of state next year. But she conceded that she faced hard questions about her readiness.
 Ms. Kennedy was interviewed separately on Friday by The Associated Press and by NY1, the cable station. 
 She said that the Sept. 11 attacks made her want to give more to the city, but that she began to seriously consider public office only after campaigning for Barack Obama. She said she had talked to people across the country about their problems. ''I thought, 'What can I do now?' and when this opportunity came along it seemed like, you know, I really ought to give it some thought.''
 Ms. Kennedy also addressed reports that she had not voted in a number of elections, especially primaries, since registering at her Manhattan address in 1988.
 ''There isn't a good excuse,'' she said. ''Going forward I will make sure to correct that.''
 She added: ''This is not just a job, it's a vocation, a mission. I wouldn't be putting myself forward unless I was serious about exactly what was required.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (70%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2008



959 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: The Gas Tax

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama and the Democrats in Congress seem to have a clear vision of the auto industry they think the country needs. It must be financially self-sufficient. It also must be capable of producing highly fuel-efficient, next-generation vehicles that can help the nation cope with climate change and finite supplies of oil. 
 Yet for all the conditions attached to it, the multibillion-dollar aid package for Detroit's carmakers approved by the White House (with Mr. Obama's support) fails to address one crucial question: Who will buy all the fuel-efficient cars that Detroit carmakers are supposed to make? 
 The danger is that too few will, especially if gasoline prices remain low. Therefore, it might be time for the president-elect and Congress to think seriously about imposing a gas tax or similar levy to keep gas prices up after the economy recovers from recession.
 Americans did not buy enormous gas guzzlers just because Detroit marketed them relentlessly. They bought them because they wanted big cars -- and because gas was cheap. If gas stays cheap, Americans would be less inclined to squeeze their families into a lithe fuel-efficient alternative. 
 Furthermore, even if the government managed to convert General Motors, Chrysler and Ford to the cause of energy efficiency, cheap gas could open the door for a competitor -- Toyota, perhaps? -- to take over the lucrative market for gas-chuggers, leaving Detroit's automakers eating dust once again.
 Americans have flirted with fuel-efficient cars before only to jilt them when gas prices fell. In the late 1970s, for instance, they spurned light trucks as gas prices doubled. But as gas prices declined between 1981 and 2005, the market share of sport-utility vehicles, pickups, vans and the like jumped from 16 percent to 61 percent of vehicle sales in the United States. 
 The recent infatuation with the Toyota Prius and other fuel-efficient cars could well come to a similar end. It took a gallon of gas at $4.10 to push the share of light trucks down to 45 percent in July. But as gasoline plummeted back to $1.60 a gallon, their share inched back up to 49 percent of auto sales in November.
 There are several ways to tax gas. One would be to devise a variable consumption tax in such a way that a gallon of unleaded gasoline at the pump would never go below a floor of $4 or $5 (in 2008 dollars), fluctuating to accommodate changing oil prices and other costs. Robert Lawrence, an economist at Harvard, proposes a variable tariff on imported oil to achieve the same effect and also to stimulate the development of domestic energy sources. 
 In both cases, the fuel taxes could be offset with tax credits to protect vulnerable segments of the population.
 While oil prices are all but sure to rise again as the world emerges from recession, further tempering consumption with a gas tax would both slow the rise in the price of crude and steer more revenue from energy consumption to the United States budget, rather than that of oil-exporting countries. 
 A bitter recession is not the most opportune time to ratchet up the price of energy. But if the Obama administration is to meet its twin objectives of reducing the nation's dependence on foreign oil and cutting its emissions of greenhouse gases, it needs to start thinking now about mechanisms to curb the nation's demand for energy when the economy emerges from recession in the future.
 This also would serve as a signal to American automakers and American drivers that the era of cheap gasoline is not going to last. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); EXCISE TAX (78%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); GASOLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); SALES TAX (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); MARKET SHARE (69%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (68%); IMPORT TRADE (67%); PICKUP TRUCKS (65%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2008



960 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (NBC) THE BEIJING OLYMPIC OPENING CEREMONY: TV EVENT OF THE YEARBob Costas and Matt Lauer hosted the broadcast of the opening ceremony of the Beijing Olympics on Aug. 8, and they're also at the helm of this two-hour program featuring highlights from the event, which drew nearly two billion viewers. The show reprises some memorable moments from the games, including a few record-breaking swims by Michael Phelps, above, and hints at what to expect at the 2010 Vancouver Winter Olympics. 
 7 A.M. (CBS) THE EARLY SHOW A preview of 2009 in terms of employment, fashion, real estate and entertainment. 
 11:30 A.M. (13) TO THE CONTRARY WITH BONNIE ERBE A review of 2008 and a look ahead to 2009.
 NOON (13) THE OPEN MIND The public relations specialist Howard Rubenstein discusses the economy.
 7 P.M. (Fox Reality Channel) SMILE ... YOU'RE UNDER ARREST! Fugitives are lured out of hiding by offers of work on movie sets and in fashion shows in this new three-part reality series. This exercise in credulity takes place courtesy of the Maricopa County Sheriff's Department, near Phoenix. 
 8 P.M. (Fox News) HUCKABEE Mike Huckabee looks back on the year through interviews with Kelsey Grammer, Oliver Stone, Richard Dreyfuss, Bill Maher and Joe the Plumber.
 9 P.M. (21) GLOBE TREKKER Justine Shapiro travels across northern France, from the beaches of Normandy and the nearby pilgrimage site Mont St. Michel to Carnac in Brittany, home to the densest Neolithic site in the world. Then it's on to French Flanders, probably the least-known section of the country and heavily influenced by nearby Belgium, and the Champagne region, for a scenic bike ride -- and a toast.
 9 P.M. (Hallmark) A KISS AT MIDNIGHT (2008) Faith Ford, right, plays a 39-year-old matchmaker with a knack for finding love for everyone but herself. When she tries to expose the techniques of a rival dating service by becoming a client, she is set up with the perfect man (Cameron Daddo). But what happens when they learn that they are, in fact, each other's competition?
 9 P.M. (HBO) THE GOLDEN COMPASS (2007) There's an entire bestiary at the heart of this fantasy, based on a novel by Philip Pullman, about Lyra (Dakota Blue Richards), an orphan in a parallel universe who sets out with her shape-shifting daemon -- a manifestation of her soul -- on a quest to save her best friend from undergoing horrible experiments at a mysterious institution. Nicole Kidman glides across the screen like liquid gold in the role of Mrs. Coulter, whose expressionless beauty masks her evil designs. Writing in The New York Times, Manohla Dargis called this film by Chris Weitz ''an honorable work'' that was ''hampered by its fealty to the book and its madly rushed pace, which forces you to dash through the story like Lord Asriel'' (Lyra's explorer uncle, played by Daniel Craig).
 9:30 P.M. (HGTV) DIVINE DESIGN Candice Olson applies her expertise to the home of a family that had three children in rapid succession, moved to the suburbs and now has a house full of empty rooms.
 10 P.M. (BBC America) THE GRAHAM NORTON SHOW The stand-up comic Jack Dee is the guest; Razorlight performs.
 10 P.M. (Sundance) CAPOTE (2005) Philip Seymour Hoffman channels Truman Capote as he sniffs out the story that became ''In Cold Blood,'' about the 1959 murder of the Clutter family in Holcomb, Kan. Catherine Keener plays Nelle Harper Lee, whom Capote takes along as his ''research assistant and personal bodyguard''; Chris Cooper is Alvin Dewey, the lead investigator on the case. Clifton Collins Jr. plays the murderer Perry Smith, whom Capote is drawn to. Bennett Miller directed this drama about the collision between country and city, and darkness and light.
 11 P.M. (VH1) NEIL YOUNG: HEART OF GOLD (2006) Jonathan Demme directed this documentary and concert film about Neil Young, left, shot at the Ryman Auditorium in Nashville. Manohla Dargis of The Times wrote that it ''is at once a valentine from one artist to another and a valentine from a musician to his audience.'' KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); FASHION DESIGN (74%); 2010 VANCOUVER WINTER OLYMPICS (73%); BEACHES (73%); WINTER SPORTS (73%); SHERIFFS (72%); FASHION & APPAREL (69%); FASHION SHOWS (69%); ARRESTS (67%); DATING SERVICES (61%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%)

PERSON: MICHAEL HUCKABEE (75%); MICHAEL PHELPS (58%); NICOLE KIDMAN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (70%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); BRETAGNE, FRANCE (79%); ARIZONA, USA (70%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (50%) CHINA (92%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (70%); BELGIUM (53%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009



961 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Obama and Mr. Putin

 BODY:
Given all he faces, Barack Obama may be tempted to put Russia on a back burner. We hope he does not.
 Russian-American relations have disintegrated to a dangerous low, with the Kremlin increasingly acting to antagonize the United States. And America's European allies have been in no mood to take their cue on Russia from Washington. A majority have resisted American efforts to quickly bring Georgia and Ukraine into NATO. The alliance, which cut formal ties with Russia after the Georgia-Russia war in August, has begun a ''conditional and graduated re-engagement'' with Moscow. 
 Given NATO's declaration that there would not be ''business as usual'' until Russia withdrew all its troops from Georgia and canceled its annexation of two Georgian provinces, the re-engagement looks a lot like pandering to an energy supplier. But it also reflects the erosion of European trust in President Bush's leadership.
 America's leverage over Russia's behavior has been limited further by the widespread conviction among Russians that so long as they appeared to be weak, the United States took advantage of them. The war with Georgia was one result; the recent announcement of $140 billion in military procurement is another. 
 Mr. Obama does have a few advantages in dealing with Russia: He is new, and the Russians are no less intrigued by him than the rest of the world. Neither he nor his foreign-policy team can have any illusions about Vladimir Putin's Kremlin. And Russia is deep in economic crisis. Mr. Putin's popularity and power have been based largely on Russia's windfall profits from soaring energy prices. Now the Russian stock market is in free fall and factories are closing, while Mr. Putin's ratings slip. 
 Mr. Obama should signal to the Russians that he wants better relations. That would mean cutting back on belligerent talk and inviting the Russians to high-level consultations on areas in which the two countries can quickly achieve cooperation -- say, on combating piracy. Mr. Obama should consider renewing the Start 1 treaty on reducing strategic nuclear forces, which expires in December 2009. He could tone down demands for NATO membership for Georgia and Ukraine, especially since neither is ready, and review plans to station defensive missiles in Poland and the Czech Republic. 
 For every gesture, the United States would make clear that it expects a tangible response, starting with help in ending Iran's nuclear program and continuing with cooperation against international terrorism and a withdrawal of Russian troops from Georgia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); SOUTH OSSETIAN CONFLICT (78%); ARMED FORCES (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (70%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (68%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); COUNTERTERRORISM (60%); TERRORISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); GEORGIA (96%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (92%); EUROPE (92%); UKRAINE (90%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); POLAND (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2008



962 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Advice for Obama From Ernst & Young's Chief

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. HOLSTEIN. 
An extended version of this interview: nytimes.com/business.

 BODY:
JAMES S. TURLEY, chairman and chief executive of the auditing firm Ernst & Young, says one danger facing the Obama administration is that it will overreach with sweeping new regulations and maintain government ownership of failed firms like the American International Group for too long.
He also argues that banks and other financial institutions should be required by the government to mark all their assets to their current value, a hotly debated practice that others in the industry are resisting because it might set off a new round of loss write-downs. 
Ernst & Young, one of the Big Four auditing and accounting firms, is advising the Treasury Department in the management of the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). Here are excerpts from a recent conversation:
Q.How will Americans to know when it's safe to go back into the financial markets?
A. Trust builds up on a long period of time and gets shattered pretty quickly. I think what investors can look to is the capital strengthening that's been going into these institutions. Leadership and management have been strengthening as have governance functions. I think transparency has been increasing. All those things should give investors a great sense of optimism and confidence that these institutions can be trusted.
Compared to a few months ago, the capital injections are having their positive effect. The financial pieces of this crisis have turned the corner. Clearly, however, economies around the globe are still terribly challenged.
Q.If the auditing profession is supposed to act as a watchdog, how come you didn't see it as it was happening?
A. Everyone wishes they could foretell the future on when a loan is going to go bad or when the value of real estate or any other asset will turn around in value. The profession wishes we could have seen that, too. But what the profession is now working on is to help companies bring to light the declines in fair value that are there.
Q.When you say ''fair value,'' you're referring to the debate about whether companies should ''mark to market'' or carry assets on their balance sheets at their current value, rather than some theoretical value?
A. As I look at it, reported fair value is the best answer possible for investors. It gives them the most realistic, real-time assessment of values. But it's very challenging to do that in distressed times. That's what the accounting standard-setters are looking at today. Moving away from fair value can't be the right answer. Keeping someone in the dark on what's going to happen is not the best way to build confidence.
Q.Is the federal government properly equipped to manage hundreds of billions of dollars in toxic assets and to run major pieces of the financial system?
A. Both the current and future administrations surround themselves with people who have that talent. You're seeing new talent being hired by the government and you're seeing the government use the services of outside professionals, including Ernst & Young. We were hired as advisers to the Treasury Department for the TARP.
Q.So auditing firms that missed something -- your firm was in charge of auditing Lehman Brothers, for example -- are now going to advise the government on solving the problem?
A. I'm not sure I'd agree with the statement that the auditing profession missed something. What we've seen is a substantial and very rapid decline in the fair value of assets, both financial and nonfinancial, like real estate, all around the world. The financial reporting of these institutions has recognized those losses when those losses were taking place. The profession has been working very diligently to insure that the right values were ascribed to these assets.
Q.But somebody missed the inherent risks involved in bringing the subprime mortgage instruments to the market, right?
A. There were an array of places where the underlying risks were not well understood, in some cases by managements, in some cases by boards and audit committees, in some cases by regulators and, perhaps, in other cases even by audit firms. The risks of real estate declines that had not happened in decades were not well understood by an array of stakeholders.
Q.What's your advice to the Obama administration about how to manage all this?
A. I think the incoming administration has been dealt a tough hand. In the re-regulation of not just the financial markets but the entirety of business that will certainly take place, it's important not to regulate so strongly that we stifle innovation and entrepreneurship. And I would caution administrations here or elsewhere against feeling that state ownership of financial institutions is the right long-term answer. These should be viewed as short-term fixes.
Q.Do you think the American economy will need to be restructured, away from a reliance on debt, to other forms of activity?
A.. Yes, I do. If you look at the economy in the United States compared to our peers around the world, there is clearly much more reliance on debt at the consumer level. I was in Mumbai in the days leading up to the terrorist attacks. Global economic shocks have had less of an overall impact on the Indian economy because a smaller percentage of their people were overleveraged or overinvested in the stock market. When you see the level of debt carried by homeowners in this country, it's out of balance with the rest of the world.
Q.What do you say to Americans who may feel that people at the very top of the financial system made huge mistakes but are walking away with tens of millions of dollars?
A. Without question, the compensation issues are front and center. That's particularly true on Wall Street and in the financial sector, where a large amount of public money has been committed to bailing out some of these institutions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James S. Turley 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); AUDITS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); TOXIC ASSETS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%)

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (90%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



963 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE EVIDENCE GAP; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2362 words

HEADLINE: Health Care That Puts A Computer On the Team

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

DATELINE: MARSHFIELD, Wis. 

 BODY:
Joseph Calderaro, 67, is one of health care's quiet success stories. Over the last four years, he has carefully managed his diabetes by lowering his blood sugar, blood pressure and cholesterol with diet, exercise and medication. 
 To keep on track, Mr. Calderaro visits his doctor, attends meetings for diabetes patients and gets frequent calls from a health counselor. It is a team effort, orchestrated by the Marshfield Clinic here. And it is animated by technology, starting with Mr. Calderaro's computerized patient record -- a continuously updated document that includes his health history, medications, lab tests, treatment guidelines and doctors' and nurses' notes. 
 To visit the Marshfield Clinic, a longtime innovator in health information technology, is to glimpse medicine's digital future. Across the national spectrum of health care politics there is broad agreement that moving patient records into the computer age, the way Marshfield and some other health systems have already done, is essential to improving care and curbing costs. 
 A paper record is a passive, historical document. An electronic health record can be a vibrant tool that reminds and advises doctors. It can hold information on a patient's visits, treatments and conditions, going back years, even decades. It can be summoned with a mouse click, not hidden in a file drawer in a remote location and thus useless in medical emergencies. 
 Modern computerized systems have links to online information on best practices, treatment recommendations and harmful drug interactions. The potential benefits include fewer unnecessary tests, reduced medical errors and better care so patients are less likely to require costly treatment in hospitals. 
 The widespread adoption of electronic health records might also greatly increase evidence-based medicine. Each patient's records add to a real-time, ever-growing database of evidence showing what works and what does not. The goal is to harness health information from individuals and populations, share it across networks, sift it and analyze it to make the practice of medicine more of a science and less an art. 
 The Bush administration has left it mainly to advocacy and the private sector to introduce digital medicine. But President-elect Barack Obama apparently plans to make a sizable government commitment. During the campaign, Mr. Obama vowed to spend $50 billion over five years to spur the adoption of electronic health records and said recently that a program to accelerate their use would be part of his stimulus package.
 The Marshfield Clinic, a large doctors' group in Wisconsin, shows that computerized records can indeed improve the quality and efficiency of medicine. Yet the Marshfield experience suggests that the digital record becomes truly useful only when patient information is mined to find patterns and answer questions: What treatments work best for particular categories of patients? What practices or procedures yield the best outcome?
 The Marshfield Clinic ''understands that it's a system of improvement that technology makes possible that really matters, and the electronic health record itself is no silver bullet,'' said Dr. Carolyn M. Clancy, director of the federal Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. 
 For the Obama presidency and the administrations that follow it, the challenge will be to somehow link electronic medical islands into a network that begins to approach on a national scale what organizations like Marshfield have achieved regionally. Ideally, a lone physician in a rural community could tap into the national health information network and be as well informed on treatments and research for patients with certain conditions as a specialist at Marshfield.
 Some experts caution that such a broad capacity for record-sharing could take decades to achieve -- if it is even possible in the decentralized American marketplace of medical competitors. 
 Marshfield Clinic, a nonprofit organization founded in 1916, has a long history of using information technology to further research and improve care. In the 1960s, the clinic bought the digital breakthrough of its day -- a mainframe computer -- and used punched cards to feed it information on diagnoses and procedures. In 1985, the clinic introduced its first basic electronic health records, kept refining them and by 1994 mandated that its doctors all use them. In 2003, it introduced wireless tablet computers, whose screen can written on like digital paper or flipped up, exposing a keyboard, and used as a conventional laptop PC.
 Today, Marshfield's 790 doctors and their support staff at 43 locations in Wisconsin all use the tablet PCs. At the end of last year, the group eliminated paper charts for the more than 365,000 patients its doctors see each year, freeing up storage space the size of a football field at the main clinic in Marshfield. At each step toward a fully digital system, physicians were consulted and involved in the design process. 
 ''It's been a fabulous journey from physicians being reluctant to now being unable to live without this technology,'' observed Dr. Karl J. Ulrich, the clinic's chief executive. Marshfield is one of a few dozen medical groups across the country that are aggressively embracing information technology. The organizations tend to be big -- ranging from providers with thousands of physicians like Kaiser Permanente and the Department of Veterans Affairs to ones with hundreds like Marshfield and Geisinger Health Systems in central Pennsylvania. They are typically responsible for most or all aspects of a patient's care. They are often insurers, as well. 
 Those groups, in other words, have the scale and economic incentives to invest in information technology to capture the gains from improved quality and efficiency. In that regard, they lie outside the mainstream of America's health care economy, a fee-for-service system in which providers are typically paid for doing more, not necessarily doing better. It is a system that encourages more doctor visits, more tests, more surgical procedures, more pills.
 For most doctors, who work in small practices, an investment in electronic health records looks simply like a cost for which they will not be reimbursed. That is why policy experts say any government financial incentives to use electronic records -- matching grants or other subsidies -- should be focused on practices with 10 or fewer doctors, which still account for three-fourths of all doctors in this country. Only about 17 percent of the nation's physicians are using computerized patient records, according to a government-sponsored survey published in The New England Journal of Medicine.
 Even for the large doctor groups, there is no crisp, conclusive cost-benefit arithmetic. Marshfield can point to various measurable savings, but has scant proof they outweigh the millions spent in the past and the $50 million-a-year technology budget.
 ''People ask about return on investment, but that's the wrong question,'' said Dr. John W. Melski, the medical director of clinical informatics at Marshfield. ''This requires the usual leap of faith that knowledge will yield good things -- better care, doing things smarter and, yes, saving money in the long run.'' 
 Aided by their growing database, Marshfield's physician-researchers are working on ambitious projects in personalized medicine that use genetic markers to tailor drug dosages. For example, the clinic recently began a clinical test on 250 patients that uses three gene markers to personalize their doses of Coumadin, or warfarin as the generic drug is known. The blood-thinning drug is widely prescribed for heart patients. But it is often difficult to calibrate the right dose for individuals, and the consequences of internal bleeding or blood clots can be life-threatening. In this case, the electronic health record is the starting point for research, feeding information into the database from which the clinic's scientists appropriate patients. The digital record holds the patient-specific information used in the Coumadin calculation of tailored doses for individuals.
 Marshfield is also researching ''predictive'' medicine that combines genetics, family histories and lab tests to warn patients about looming health risks. It has a voluntary DNA database on nearly 20,000 people, whose health care information goes back 30 years on average -- and the electronic record is the vehicle for collecting and conveying that information. The researchers are looking for patterns in family history, lifestyle, environmental factors, lab test results and selected genetic markers that might predict the onset of conditions like diabetes and Alzheimer's disease years in advance. 
 ''Better health information technology is needed every step of the way,'' said Catherine A. McCarty, director of Marshfield's center for human genetics and principal investigator for its personalized medicine research project. ''We could not do this without the electronic health record.'' 
 The more immediate target, though, is harnessing the digital technology to help manage chronic illnesses like diabetes, heart disease, cancer and asthma. Seventy-five percent of America's health care spending goes to people with one or more chronic conditions. And as the population ages that percentage is rising.
 Marshfield's progress in recent years with its more than 18,000 diabetes patients, including Mr. Calderaro, points to the potential. The gains are a byproduct of being able to constantly measure and manage health outcomes, a process of efficiently gathering and monitoring patient information that is made possible by the electronic health record. Besides the doctor visits, group meetings and monthly calls from a diabetes counselor, Mr. Calderaro has used all the information to take responsibility for controlling his diabetes. He not only monitors his blood sugar and blood pressure readings, but he could recite the carbohydrate grams in each of the foods he ate one day recently. A three-mile walk is often part of his daily regimen. He was never really heavy, but he has a sister with diabetes and had a maternal grandmother who suffered from the disease. 
 ''If I had known when I was 40 years old what I know now, I would have done things differently,'' Mr. Calderaro said. 
 From mid-2004 through the third quarter of this year, the percentage of the clinic's diabetic patients with blood cholesterol at or below the recommended level rose to 61 percent, from 40 percent earlier. The percentage with satisfactory blood pressure increased to 52 percent, up from 32 percent. 
 Over the same span, hospital admissions among Marshfield's diabetic population fell -- to 311 per 1,000 patients a year, from 360. Because a hospital stay for a diabetes patient ranges from $8,000 to $22,500, according to national statistics, Marshfield's results translate into an annual cost saving of $7.3 million to $20.5 million.
 More important may be the suffering avoided. Complications from diabetes include kidney failure, blindness and amputations. ''Those are the things that really scare you,'' Mr. Calderaro, the patient, said. ''But it doesn't have to be. You can manage it.''
 Marshfield is striving to help more of its diabetes patients to do as well as Mr. Calderaro, and the federal Medicare agency has recognized Marshfield's progress.
 In a continuing pilot project, Medicare has selected the clinic and nine other large doctor groups and arranged to pay them for the quality of care they deliver. Last year, on the basis of how well diabetes patients had fared, by various measures, Marshfield was one of only two groups that did well enough to earn bonus payments.
 The Medicare pilot prompted Marshfield to take a fresh look at how it cares for various chronic conditions, including heart disease and hypertension. That led to a new software tool, called the iList, which has proved a big help, said Dr. Theodore A. Praxel, Marshfield's medical director of quality improvement and care management. 
 The iList (for ''intervention list'') culls the patient records of a primary care physician, and ranks and flags patients by conditions not met, including uncontrolled blood pressure and cholesterol, overdue lab tests and vaccinations missed. Nurses and medical assistants then ''work the iList,'' calling patients with reminders and scheduling them for exams and lab work.
 In medicine, the computer is to memory what the X-ray machine is to vision -- a technology that vastly surpasses human limitations. The benefits of a computer-helper, doctors say, become quickly evident in everyday practice. 
 When a doctor electronically prescribes a new drug, for example, an on-screen warning appears if the medication is on the patient's allergy list or could cause a potentially dangerous interaction with another drug the person is taking. In the New England Journal of Medicine survey, 71 percent of physicians using electronic health records with that feature said they had received a computer alert that helped them avoid a harmful prescription mistake.
 ''It absolutely happens,'' said Dr. Edna O. DeVries, a pediatrician at Marshfield. ''You're distracted and talking to the parents. You're on autopilot.''
 Dr. DeVries, who joined the clinic in 1989, was the medical director nearly a decade ago on a database, created by Marshfield, to track early childhood immunizations in central Wisconsin. Over the next two years, the immunization rates for children in the area rose to 93 percent, from 67 percent, as a result of the tracking and follow-up reminders. 
 ''The quality of care goes up dramatically just by having information instantly,'' Dr. DeVries said. Yet, as her colleague and veteran of computer medicine Dr. Melski notes, there is no payoff to technology alone -- only in people using technology wisely. 
 ''We have to restructure our medical culture,'' he said. ''We have to promote a culture that believes in the evidence and is trained in analyzing the evidence. It's the only long-run answer to the challenges we face in health care -- evidence-based medicine.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Claire Critelli, 6, center, and her mother, Marilee, left, with Dr. Edna O. DeVries at the Marshfield Clinic in Wisconsin.
Dr. Theodore A. Praxel, Marshfield's director of quality improvement and care management.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DARREN HAUCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY IMAGES BY THE MARSHFIELD CLINIC)(pg. B3) CHARTS: Views of an Electronic Health Record: The Marshfield Clinic introduced its first electronic health record in 1985, and today all of its 790 doctors use tablet personal computers to track patient records. In this example, which has been stripped of identifying information, an asthmatic 6-year-old boy arrives at the clinic with chest congestion and wheezing.
ORDERING A TEST: Using an instant-messaging feature, the doctor orders an X-ray of the boy's chest by writing the order in digital ink on her tablet PC. The doctor also marks the priority ''high'' and notes that the patient will be in the radiology unit, on another floor of the clinic, in 15 minutes.
 VIEWING THE TEST RESULTS: When the X-ray is complete, the boy and his mother return to the pediatrician, who can view the images on her tablet PC, show the X-rays to the parent and read notes from the radiologist.(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (90%); DIABETES (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MEDICAL RECORDS (89%); EVIDENCE BASED MEDICINE (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (77%); DRUG INTERACTIONS & SIDE EFFECTS (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); BEST PRACTICES (75%); QUALITY CONTROL (75%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2008



964 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Mending the Safety Net in Hard Times

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Your editorial ''Welfare as We Knew It'' (Dec. 26) hits the mark. The much celebrated ''welfare reform,'' which was the cornerstone of President Bill Clinton's domestic program, may have made sense in a time of economic prosperity when jobs were plentiful.
 But as the critics of welfare reform were quick to point out at the time, if the economy were to go south, then the former recipients of guaranteed benefits would not only be out of work, but would also fall through the cracks without a social safety net to catch them. 
 And so today poverty in America is not only on the increase, but also once again becoming ''invisible'' thanks to the ''welfare reform'' of the Clinton era.
 George Dargo Brookline, Mass., Dec. 26, 2008
 To the Editor:
 These terrible economic times certainly require us to shore up our safety net, increasing access to food stamps, unemployment benefits and housing subsidies. These investments, however, should be thought of as just a first step. 
 Let's use this time to rethink our welfare strategies, which now rely on the ''quick fix,'' and measure success by the number of people dropping off the rolls. 
 Otherwise, even after our recovery, poor families and individuals will remain marginally above, at or below the poverty level. And little will have changed to empower them to realize their potential to contribute fully to our community.
 Arnold S. Cohen President Partnership for the Homeless New York, Dec. 26, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''City's Religious Shelters Say Rules Squeeze Them Out'' (news article, Dec. 25):
 As a volunteer for the shelter run by Congregation B'nai Jeshurun and the Church of St. Paul and St. Andrew, I am dismayed that our shelter may have to close for the sake of ''efficiency.'' A shelter guest once told me that in contrast to the institutional treatment she received at large city-run shelters, ''You treat us like kings and queens.''
 Our guests benefit from the warmth and intimacy of our welcome, whether or not we can provide their transportation. Must the city turn its back on such an irreplaceable resource, in these uncertain times no less?
 Jenny Golub New York, Dec. 25, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In keeping with their long history, religious communities in New York City should continue to offer a parallel, volunteer shelter system. With all the budget cuts, we can assume that there are enough individuals in need to fill all available beds. Moreover, the issue of a hot meal versus a cold meal is not worth arguing about when there is not enough food to go around.
 Melinda Hunt New York, Dec. 26, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I am the director of Congregation Rodeph Sholom's Shelter for Homeless Men. Open five nights a week from October through June, it houses eight men and is stocked with sandwich meats, cheeses and snacks for the evening and cereals and hot beverages for breakfast.
 Our guests arrive at 8 p.m. and depart at 6:30 a.m. A bus, provided by the Department of Homeless Services, picks them up at a drop-in center and drops them off at the congregation's doorsteps. 
 The new policy will very likely result in Rodeph Sholom's closing its shelter doors. Apart from the unnecessary ''hot dinners'' requirement, the congregation simply cannot provide a van to pick up our guests.
 In the end, the losers will be our guests, who have had, for almost 26 years, the benefit of a safe and welcoming place in which to spend the night.
 Jay A. Kranis New York, Dec. 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POOR POPULATION (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); FOOD SECURITY (74%); BUDGETS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); HOMELESSNESS (69%); RELIGION (68%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2008



965 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
SLIDESHOW: ON THE STREET: NEW YORK IN WHITE
 A slide show of New York decked out in decorations for the holiday season with a coat of snow to boot. Bill Cunningham discusses the decorations department stores put in their windows, and other scenes from Christmas-time in New York. 
 nytimes.com/style
 The demise of Polaroid's instant film camera has been coming for years. Digital technology did it in. The decision this year by the company to stop manufacturing the film has left devotees who grew up with Polaroid's palm-size white-bordered prints bereft. They have signed up in the thousands as members of SavePolaroid.com. A selection of images from the book ''Found Polaroids'' (2006).
 nytimes.com/weekinreview
 VIDEO: VOWS: BARI RABINE AND DENNIS CABRERA
 Bari Rabine and Dennis Cabrera found love on the road.
 nytimes.com/style
 AUDIO: KENNEDY INTERVIEW
 An interview with Caroline Kennedy, who met with reporters from The Times on Saturday.
 nytimes.com/nyregion
 SLIDESHOW: PICKS AND PANS
 The best and worst automobiles of 2008 -- which could go down in history as the year the American auto industry went... down in history.
 nytimes.com/autos
 SLIDESHOW: THE SCIENCE
 Of Winter Break
 With the days shorter and the weekends chillier, it is the perfect time for families to go to science museums.
 nytimes.com/longisland
 AUDIO: MUSIC THEY MADE
 A sound collage featuring a sampling from the musicians who died this year.
 nytimes.com/magazine
 Economix
 Hanukkah Economics
 Considering a few ways of casting an economic eye on the Festival of Lights. What does Hanukkah teach us about economics, and what does economics tell us about Hanukkah?
 nytimes.com/economix
 AUDIO: PRIESTS WANTED
 A narrated slide show examines the shortage of priests in Owensboro, Ky. Sixteen of the Rev. Darrell Venters's fellow priests are serving three parishes simultaneously. One priest admits he stood at an altar once and forgot which church he was in. So Father Venters, left, has recruited 12 priests from overseas in the last six years to serve in the Diocese of Owensboro.
 nytimes.com/national

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BILL CUNNINGHAM/THE NEW YORK TIMES
FRANK GOHLKE
 JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); RELIGION (89%); HANUKKAH (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (85%); CHRISTMAS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); MUSIC (64%); RETAILERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OWENSBORO, KY, USA (85%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



966 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: The Refinancing Dilemma

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
MANY homeowners who have watched interest rates plunge over the last month or so have undoubtedly felt pangs of mortgage envy. It's a perfectly natural emotion when lenders start to dangle 4.9 percent rates for 30-year, fixed-rate loans without extra fees for buying down that rate.
 These offers, which were common in recent weeks, started the phones ringing at the offices of mortgage brokers. But for many homeowners, deciding whether to refinance their mortgages can be confusing, especially if they have had the loan long enough to start significantly diminishing their debt. 
 Because the typical mortgage only lasts for about five or six years before the homeowner sells the home or refinances the loan, lenders collect much of the mortgage interest during those years. Once a loan gets beyond five or six years old, homeowners can start seeing the overall debt drop at a faster pace. 
 So if a homeowner has reached that point, does it make sense to start a new 30-year loan, and face another five years where you'll make heavier interest payments? The answer, as is so often the case with financial decisions, depends on individual circumstances. If retirement or tuition payment plans involve the liquidation of a home, it may make sense not to take out a new loan.
 But in other cases, the monthly savings from a cheaper mortgage could be critical -- ''especially in this economy,'' said Richard E. Austin, a financial adviser with Lincoln Financial Advisors. 
 Mr. Austin, who is based in Rye Brook, N.Y., noted that someone who five years ago borrowed $220,000 on a 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage at 5.5 percent would have reduced the loan principal to only $203,500, despite having made nearly $75,000 in payments during that time. From this point forward, the principal would shrink more quickly, but if the borrower could reduce the interest rate to, say, 5 percent, the monthly mortgage payment would drop by $157, to $1,092. Assuming it costs $3,000 to close that new loan, it would take just 27 months to recoup the costs if the borrower is in the 28 percent tax bracket.
 If a homeowner planned on keeping the new loan for 27 months or longer, a refinance could well make sense, Mr. Austin and other mortgage advisers said. The federal government has floated the idea of engineering a 4.5 percent mortgage rate, by promising to buy mortgages at those rates, but that proposal was only targeted at loans made for a home purchase, not a refinance. Mortgage rates in late December were at their lowest level since at least 1971, when Freddie Mac began tracking these loans.
 Closing costs vary widely in the New York area. Borrowers in Manhattan, for instance, face much higher mortgage taxes than those in the suburbs, so the financial calculus of a refinance decision shifts accordingly. 
 Mr. Austin, who is also a tax lawyer, said another frequently overlooked factor could help reduce the cost of a refinancing. If the new bank agreed to essentially absorb the old loan -- albeit with new terms -- the homeowner might not face a mortgage origination tax on the new loan. So when shopping for the new loan, he said, borrowers should ask if the lender will perform a ''consolidation and assignment'' with the old loan. Be sure to ask, or the lender may not offer it.
 For those averse to the idea of starting the 30-year clock anew, Mr. Austin suggests splitting the monthly payment -- making half at the middle of the month and saving the other half for the actual due date. That strategy, he said, can take years off the new loan's payoff term.

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (87%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (75%); SUBURBS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TUITION FEES (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); LINCOLN FINANCIAL ADVISORS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



967 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Former Bankers Turn To a Creative Plan B

BYLINE: By HANNAH SELIGSON

 BODY:
MICHAEL TERRY led a double life for many years. 
 ''During the day I worked at Morgan Stanley as an executive director, overseeing a group that raised money for hedge funds,'' he said, ''and at night I performed in comedy shows.'' 
 Then, last February, his company announced a round of layoffs. Mr. Terry, motivated to pursue his goal of becoming a ''Daily Show'' correspondent, raised his hand. 
 ''At the time, I figured the severance package would give me a couple of years to try comedy, something that was getting increasingly hard to balance with my day job.''
 Since leaving Morgan Stanley, Mr. Terry, 37, has shot two pieces as an on-the-scene reporter for the Onion News Network, and his sketch comedy group, Party Central USA, has been given a prime spot at the coming Chicago Sketch Comedy Festival.
 With Wall Street hemorrhaging jobs, bonuses disappearing and the financial sector going through a seismic shift, some bankers and lawyers are switching lanes to more creative career paths. They are putting down their Wall Street Journals and picking up Variety as they try their hands at comedy, filmmaking and writing. 
 Harry B. Weiner, a partner at On-Ramps, a recruiting and consulting firm that works with financial professionals, says the economic downturn is creating a new psychology of career transition.
 ''People feel there's nothing to lose in terms of taking a risk and pursuing a new direction, especially when you have a resume that says 'banking' and no banks are hiring,'' Mr. Weiner said.
 That was certainly the calculus for Benjamin Cox, 33. After leaving his job as a vice president at Goldman Sachs in August, he immediately began incubating his plans to work on his screenplay -- he calls it a cross between ''Swingers'' and ''Annie Hall'' -- and start a production company.
 Mr. Cox said that with the upheaval on Wall Street, he feels relieved to have a backup plan. ''I'm seeing a lot of people who never thought of an alternative to banking.''
 Shaun Gatter, 38, left his position as a vice president and counsel at a large investment bank last year to work on his novel about a Jewish South African family, a story set against the backdrop of apartheid.
 Mr. Gatter says that the decision has meant a huge financial adjustment, but that the payback -- having more mental energy for his book -- has been worth it. 
 ''It's been euphoric to be able to think mainly about the book and less about equity derivatives and client risk.''
 Greg Collett, 37, left his job as a director in the commodity exchange-traded fund business at Deutsche Bank in June to explore a career in stand-up comedy. 
 ''I had this gnawing feeling that things were only going to get worse and that Wall Street was not the place to be,'' Mr. Collett said, adding that it was easier to leave knowing that compensation packages were going to be a fraction of what they were a few years ago. 
 Richard Florida, author of ''Who's Your City?'' and director of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the University of Toronto, sees the gravitational pull away from Wall Street and toward more creative industries as part of a necessary economic recalibration. 
 ''The economy couldn't survive on speculation and what really amounted to advanced financial alchemy,'' he said. ''We are now realizing it is our human creativity that is our real capital. 
 ''The economic downturn is going to free up top talent to do other things that are going to change the metabolism of cities like New York in a very good way.''
 According to a 2005 report by the Center for an Urban Future, the creative work force of New York City comprised 8.1 percent of all those employed in the five boroughs, and has been on one of the strongest areas of economic growth for the city. Between 1998 and 2002, employment in New York's creative core grew by 13.1 percent, adding 32,000 jobs, while the city's overall job totals increased by 6.5 percent. 
 Carmen Scheidel, director of education, events and multimedia at MediaBistro.com, a Web site for artists and media professionals, says that while most industries are contracting, MediaBistro added 93 online courses in the last year to meet the demands of people who want to take courses in writing, multimedia and design. 
 Still, Jonathan Bowles, director of the Center for an Urban Future, says that while there is no question that creative fields are not faring as badly as Wall Street right now, they are hardly immune to the economic downturn. The advertising, publishing and newspaper industries are all cutting jobs, he noted.
 The bright spot that Mr. Bowles sees is for the free agent. ''There's a good chance,'' he said, ''that there will be more work for independent contractors and freelancers.''
 WHILE most bankers and lawyers who pursue careers in comedy, writing and filmmaking say they are somewhat anomalous, the situation could change quickly. 
 ''Things look so bad in finance that if you think the difference in salary multiple isn't as big as it used to be between doing what you are viscerally interested in versus a job that's just about money, it puts a whole different spin on it,'' Mr. Terry said.
 Mr. Gatter said that many of his colleagues at the bank commended his choice to leave, telling him that they also nursed ambitions to be chefs, photographers, writers and artists.
 ''Everyone seems to have something else they would rather be doing than their 9-to-5,'' he said. ''I think that people who are losing their jobs are being forced to pursue their dreams and, in a way, are being liberated from the golden handcuffs of Wall Street and venturing into something that might fulfill them.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Terry, left, a former banker, and Patrick Dall'Occhio performing with Party Central USA at the Peoples Improv Theater in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (77%); COMEDY FILMS (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (77%); SEVERANCE PAY (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); FESTIVALS (72%); DRAMA LITERATURE (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); PSYCHOLOGY (65%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); COMMODITIES TRADING (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (85%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (85%); DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



968 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Early American Echoes in South Africa?

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
If Nelson Mandela was South Africa's George Washington, Thabo Mbeki was his John Adams -- a short, touchy, fiercely intelligent infighter doomed to labor in the shadow of the great man. 
 Jacob Zuma, who is expected soon to be the third democratically elected president of Africa's most influential country, is no Thomas Jefferson -- though he, like Jefferson, may ultimately play an important (if unwitting) role in the birth of a real two-party system in a nascent democracy. 
 Right now, South Africa is effectively a one-party state. Since the first democratic elections in 1994, the share of Parliament controlled by the African National Congress, the party of Mr. Mandela, Mr. Mbeki and Mr. Zuma, has increased to 69.7 percent from 63 percent. 
 With that majority, the party can pass any law or even rewrite the country's remarkable Constitution. With that level of support, Mr. Zuma can crush efforts to limit his power. That trend has already started, with the disbanding of the Scorpions anticorruption unit; libel suits against Mr. Zuma's critics including political cartoonists; and open expressions of disgust at judges by party officials.
 Three months ago, Archbishop Desmond Tutu pointed out the danger, saying the party needed ''a viable opposition'' because ''democracy flourishes where there is a vigorous debate.'' 
 Days after he said that, a faction of the A.N.C. broke away to form a new party, the Congress of the People, known as COPE. On its shoulders may well rest the fate of a viable two-party system. 
 Only a month earlier, Mr. Mbeki had left the A.N.C. after losing a long power struggle with Mr. Zuma. His popularity was low; his free-market policies did not shrink the country's unemployment rate; and his opposition to AIDS drugs put the blame for thousands of deaths on him. 
 The new COPE party is not Mbeki-centric -- he has not even joined. Rather, its leaders worry that Mr. Zuma is undermining the rule of law.
 Mr. Zuma has avoided conviction on charges of taking bribes from arms merchants and raping a young woman, but trial testimony in no way made him sound like the innocent victim of false charges.
 The defectors are not selfless -- Mr. Zuma had ousted many of them from patronage jobs.
 To a correspondent who arrived in South Africa in 1995, it was obvious, even in the midst of the celebrations of majority rule, that the only long-term hope for democracy was for the bouncing birthday boy, the African National Congress, to tear itself apart.
 I never imagined this being even thinkable while Nelson Mandela was alive. But he is now 90, and rarely comments on party politics.
 And the A.N.C.'s rivals have been feeble. Before 1994 they were essentially tribal, as is sadly true of most African political parties. The National Party was for white Afrikaners; the remnants of the former Progressive Party for white English-speakers; the Inkatha Freedom Party for Zulu nationalists, and so on.
 While the A.N.C. was sometimes pigeonholed as the party of the Xhosa, the tribe of Mr. Mandela and Mr. Mbeki, it really was, as it boasted, ''a big tent.'' The Mandela and Mbeki cabinets included members of all ethnic groups.
 Now the old tribalism has been replaced by issues -- honest government, less crime, more housing, more jobs. It is high time.
 When King George's men sailed out of New York City in 1783, the split between the two parties, Tory and Patriot, became meaningless. But George Washington was nonpartisan, and it took time for prominent Patriots to divide into new factions.
 By the early 1790s, Alexander Hamilton and John Adams were leading the Federalists, the businessman's party favoring strong central government. Thomas Jefferson and James Madison headed the Democratic-Republicans, the party of farmers, states rights and neutrality toward Europe.
 Whether or not rebirth by meiosis succeeds in South Africa won't be known for some time. Which tottering parties, if any, ask to join COPE will affect its image among black voters. And, since its founders, Mosiuoa Lekota and Mbhazima Shilowa (once better known as Terror and Sam), are not exactly up to Hamiltonian or Jeffersonian standards, more important will be which, if any, new defectors it attracts. 
 Not only has Mr. Mbeki not yet joined, but neither have the liberation struggle heroes he sidelined in his own rise to power like Cyril Ramaphosa and Tokyo Sexwale. But the unthinkable -- an endorsement of the new party by Archbishop Tutu or even by Mr. Mandela himself -- would completely change the game.
 Steven Friedman, a veteran analyst of South African politics, has called a party split ''the only way we are going to have competitive democracy.'' But he said he did not expect COPE to threaten the A.N.C. at the polls under its current leaders. 
 More crucial for democracy will be whether violence ensues.
 In the streets, South African politics has an ugly legacy. The apartheid-era police turned their guns on crowds, and just before the 1994 election, perhaps 10,000 blacks died in political and ethnic fighting.
 Recent COPE meetings have been broken up by A.N.C. thugs. The leader of the A.N.C. Youth League -- a position Mr. Mandela held decades ago -- has threatened to ''take up arms and kill for Zuma.'' His colleagues keep calling COPE followers ''cockroaches'' -- the Hutu epithet for Tutsis during the Rwandan genocide. The old guerrilla anthem Lethu Mshini Wami (''Bring Me My Machine Gun'') is sung by pro-Zuma crowds and Mr. Zuma himself called his rivals ''witches,'' who, in Zulu tradition, were killed by stakes driven into their anuses. The tone is very dangerous.
 However, it is worth remembering that the transition from white to black rule in 1994 defied pessimists by avoiding a civil war. Perhaps the next step toward democracy can do so, too.
 After all, after Washington's election, the United States avoided one for 70 years. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: APPEARANCES ARE DECEIVING: Jacob Zuma, left, and Thabo Mbeki, right, celebrate the birthday of Nelson Mandela shortly before Mr. Zuma's supporters forced out Mr. Mbeki as South Africa's president. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEROME DELAY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TRENDS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CORRUPTION (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); BRIBERY (66%); AIDS & HIV (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (58%); LIBEL & SLANDER (52%); RELIGION (51%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%)

PERSON: JACOB ZUMA (92%); THABO MBEKI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



969 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; DEBT SWEAT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: Printing Money And Its Price

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
Borrowing and spending beyond ordinary limits largely explains how Americans got into such economic trouble. For decades, businesses and consumers feasted relentlessly, as if gravity, arithmetic and the tyranny of debt had been defanged by financial engineering.
 Armed with credit cards and belief in a bountiful future, Americans brought home ceaseless volumes of iPods and cashmere sweaters, and never mind their declining incomes and winnowing savings. Banks lent staggering sums of money to homeowners with dubious credit, convinced that real estate prices could only go up. Government spent as it saw fit, secure that foreigners could always be counted on to finance American debt.
 So it may seem perverse that in this new era of reckoning -- with consumers finally tapped out, government coffers lean and banks paralyzed by fear -- many economists have concluded that the appropriate medicine is a fresh dose of the very course that delivered the disarray: Spend without limit. Print money today, fret about the consequences tomorrow. Otherwise, invite a loss of jobs and business failures that could cripple the nation for years. 
 Such thinking carries the moment as President-elect Barack Obama puts together plans to spend more than $700 billion on projects like building roads and classrooms to put people back to work. It is the philosophy behind the Federal Reserve's decision to drop interest rates near zero -- meaning that banks can essentially borrow money for free -- while lending directly to financial institutions. This is the mentality that has propelled the Treasury to promise up to $950 billion to aid Wall Street, Detroit and perhaps other recipients.
 But where does all this money come from? And how can a country that got itself in peril by borrowing and spending without limit now borrow and spend its way back to safety?
 In the case of the Fed, the money comes from its authority to print dollars from thin air. Since late August, the Fed has expanded its balance sheet from about $900 billion to more than $2.2 trillion, creating $1.3 trillion that did not exist to replace some of the trillions wiped out by falling house prices and vengeful stock markets. The Fed has taken troublesome assets off the hands of banks and simply credited them with having reserves they previously lacked.
 In the case of the Treasury, the money comes from the same wellspring that has been financing American debt for decades: Investors in the United States and around the world -- not least, the central banks of China, Japan and Saudi Arabia, which have parked national savings in the safety of American government bonds. 
 Americans have gotten accustomed to treating this well as bottomless, even as anxiety grows that it could one day run dry with potentially devastating consequences.
 The value of outstanding American Treasury bills now reaches $10.6 trillion, a number sure to increase as dollars are spent building bridges, saving auto jobs and preventing the collapse of government-backed mortgage giants. Worry centers on the possibility that foreigners could come to doubt the American wherewithal to pay back such an extraordinary sum, prompting them to stop -- or at least slow -- their deposits of savings into the United States.
 That could send the dollar plummeting, making imported goods more expensive for American consumers and businesses. It would force the Treasury to pay higher returns to find takers for its debt, increasing interest rates for home- and auto-buyers, for businesses and credit-card holders. 
 ''We got into this mess to a considerable extent by overborrowing,'' said Martin N. Baily, a chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Clinton and now a fellow at the Brookings Institution. ''Now, we're saying, 'Well, O.K., let's just borrow a bunch more, and that will help us get out of this mess.' It's like a drunk who says, 'Give me a bottle of Scotch, and then I'll be O.K. and I won't have to drink anymore.' Eventually, we have to get off this binge of borrowing.''
 Some argue that the moment for sobriety is long overdue, and postponing it further only increases the ultimate costs. ''Our government doesn't have enough spare cash to bail out a lemonade stand,'' declared Peter Schiff president of Euro Pacific Capital, a Connecticut-based trading house. ''Our standard of living must decline to reflect years of reckless consumption and the disintegration of our industrial base. Only by swallowing this tough medicine now will our sick economy ever recover.''
 But most economists cast such thinking as recklessly extreme, akin to putting an obese person on a painful diet in the name of long-term health just as they are fighting off a potentially lethal infection. In the dominant view, now is no time for austerity -- not with paychecks disappearing from the economy and gyrating markets wiping out retirement savings. Not with the financial system in virtual lockdown, and much of the world in a similar state of retrenchment, shrinking demand for American goods and services.
 Since the Great Depression, the conventional prescription for such times is to have the government step in and create demand by cycling its dollars through the economy, generating jobs and business opportunities. That such dollars must be borrowed is hardly ideal, adding to the long-term strains on the nation. But the immediate risks of not spending them could be grave.
 ''This is a dangerous situation,'' says Mr. Baily, essentially arguing that the drunk must be kept in Scotch a while longer, lest he burn down the neighborhood in the midst of a crisis. ''The risks of things actually getting worse and us going into a really severe recession are high. We need to get more money out there now.''
 Had the government worried more about limiting spending than about the potential collapse of the mortgage giants, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, it might have triggered precisely the dark scenario that consumes those who worry most about growing American debt, argues Brad Setser, an economist at the Council on Foreign Relations. 
 China purchased a lot of Fannie and Freddie bonds with the understanding that they were backed by the American government. No bailout ''would have been portrayed in China as defaulting on the Chinese people,'' Mr. Setser said. That would have increased the likelihood that China would start parking its savings somewhere other than the United States. 
 The most frequently voiced worry about the bailouts is that the Fed, by sending so much money sloshing through the system, risks generating a bad case of rising prices later on. That puts the onus on the Fed to reverse course and crimp economic activity by lifting interest rates and selling assets back to banks once growth resumes. 
 But finding the appropriate point to act tends to be more art than science. The Fed might move too early and send the economy back into a tailspin. It might wait too long and let too much money generate inflation.
 ''It's a tricky business,'' says Allan H. Meltzer, an economist at Carnegie Mellon University, and a former economic adviser to President Reagan. ''There's no math model that tells us when to do it or how.''
 But that, as most economists see it, is a worry for another day. Some policy makers are focused on staving off the opposite problem -- deflation, or falling prices, as demand weakens to the point that goods pile up without buyers, sending prices down and reducing the incentive for businesses to invest. That could shrink demand further and perhaps even deliver the sort of downward spiral that pinned Japan in the weeds of stagnant growth during the 1990s.
 ''Those who claim that sharp increases in federal borrowing and the national debt would be ill advised at the present time, when the economy is weakening while deflation threatens, have failed to study Japan's history,'' declared the economist John H. Makin in a report published by the conservative American Enterprise Institute -- ordinarily, a staunch advocate for lean government.
 So back to the well Americans go, putting aside worries about debt, unleashing another wave of synthesized money in an effort to prevent deeper misery.
 ''Right now,'' Mr. Setser says, ''the risk is not doing enough.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM YOUNG/REUTERS) (pg.WK1)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP LITHERLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); BONDS (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (51%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



970 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THEN/NOW; Pg. 

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Where Once There Were Many, There Are Just Two

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
Calling Broadway the main street of the Upper West Side, Paul Goldberger wrote in ''The City Observed: New York'' (1978) that it was ''like a child's room that is permitted to remain in disorder by parents who feel that children should be permitted to have their own mess.'' 
 ''If you doubt the economic wisdom of letting a street be that way,'' he continued, ''count the empty storefronts: there are virtually none from Lincoln Center to Morningside Heights.''
 The best single block to illustrate this jumbled vitality for Mr. Goldberger's guidebook was between 74th and 75th Streets. In a 213-foot stretch were a celebrated fishmonger (Citarella), a well-known greengrocer (Fairway), a supermarket (D'Agostino), a clothing store (Pandemonium), a coffee shop and a popular bingo parlor called Broadway Hall.
 Revisiting the block 30 years later, one finds Fairway and Citarella. Period.
 The competing markets, which long ago expanded beyond their original specialties, now occupy all the street-level retail space.
 This is a tribute to the West Side's enduring character as a neighborhood where homegrown food businesses can thrive, cheek by jowl. But it also underscores the growing big-box monotony on Broadway, even when the boxes are, happily, one of a kind.
 Fairway was founded in the early 1930s by Nathan Glickberg as the 74th Street Market, a fruit and vegetable stand. In the early '50s, the Glickberg family turned it into a supermarket called Fairway, adding groceries, meat, dairy products and frozen food. After the business changed hands several times, Howard Glickberg, one of the founder's grandsons, recreated it as a high-end produce shop in 1974. Fairway expanded into the coffee shop in 1997. Two years later, it took over D'Agostino's space and the former bingo hall upstairs, which had more recently been a Bally's Jack LaLanne Fitness Center. There, Fairway runs a cafe and steakhouse.
 And there, Fairway's irresistible force meets the immovable object of Citarella, which expanded into the Pandemonium space in 1993. The competitors are abutters, too.
 Imagine a passer-by from the 1978 photograph -- perhaps the man in the vest, flared trousers and mustard-colored shirt (just a guess) with four-inch collar points -- propelled forward 30 years.
 The time traveler recognizes Fairway and Citarella, of course, but the crowd looks younger, more prosperous and less diverse, and there are more children underfoot. The device in the woman's right hand could be described to him as being akin to a Dick Tracy two-way wrist radio with a full keyboard and a computer monitor. But it might take all day to explain the phrase ''www.fairwaymarket.com'' on the awning, where it used to say ''Farm Fresh.''

GRAPHIC: There are only two stores on the block today. Fairway expanded to the north and south, and Citarella expanded into the Pandemonium space. DAVID W. DUNLAP/THE NEW YORK TIMES A variety of stores occupied Broadway between 74th and 75th Streets in 1978, including Fairway, D'Agostino, Pandemonium (a clothing store) and Citarella. DAVID W. DUNLAP/''THE CITY OBSERVED: NEW YORK'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); RESTAURANTS (88%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (88%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); RETAILERS (75%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (71%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (71%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (69%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (68%); FROZEN FOODS (65%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



971 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Q&A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 274 words

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
When Other Units
 Rent for Less
 Q I renewed my lease in October. My building has currently listed apartments that are larger, and on higher floors, for less than my current rent. Is there any recourse for this type of situation? I've already called the management company, and they state that I have to honor the lease. 
 A ''If the apartment is not subject to rent control or rent stabilization, there are no limits on the amount of rent the landlord may charge to a willing tenant,'' said Mary Ann Hallenborg, a Manhattan landlord-tenant lawyer. ''The lease agreement becomes a binding contract, and absent proof of fraud, duress, or unconscionability, the landlord and tenant are each held to their end of the bargain.'' 
 Ms. Hallenborg says that the fact that the landlord is now offering similar or better apartments at a lower rent is not, itself, proof of unconscionability. 
 ''Changing circumstances that make a lease bargain less beneficial, such as a weakened rental market, do not affect its validity and enforceability,'' she said. 
 If the apartment is rent-stabilized, the renewal rent may not exceed the legal regulated rent for the apartment, and while the landlord can offer to accept a lower rent, he or she is not obligated to do so. 
 Tenants who are uncertain as to the rent regulatory status of their apartment, or its legal regulated rent, should contact the New York State Division of Housing and Community Renewal, the state agency that enforces rent-stabilization and rent-control laws. The telephone numbers for the agency's local offices are listed on the agency's Web site at www.dhcr.state.ny.us/Rent/.JAY ROMANO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENT CONTROL (93%); RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONTRACTS LAW (90%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (78%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



972 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: The Week Ahead Dec. 28 - Jan. 3 Dance

BYLINE: By ROSLYN SULCAS

 BODY:
Dance
 Roslyn Sulcas
 New Year's Eve. So much pressure to have fun. So expensive, so tiring. But a solution is at hand: ''MURRAY HILL'S NEW YEAR'S EVE SPECTACULAR,'' a variety show by the man who styles himself ''the hardest-working middle-aged man in showbiz.'' On Wednesday night he'll have a little help from his friends in the worlds of burlesque and downtown dance: among them Bridget Everett, Kenny Mellman, Neal Medlyn, Dirty Martini, Little Miss Lixx and the fabulously named Trixie Little & Evil Hate Monkey. Mr. Hill's hilarious and somewhat ramshackle mix of burlesque, dance, song and bawdy repartee (warning: don't sit in the front row unless you want to be part of the show) is the antithesis of a polished nightclub act. But it's all the more endearing for that, and at $35 ($75 if you splurge on the open-bar-and-Champagne-toast ticket) it's a recession spectacular, too. At 10.30 p.m., the Zipper Factory, 336 West 37th Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, thezipperfactory.com. 
 If bawdy repartee is not your idea of a good time, the dazzling dancing at the ALVIN AILEY AMERICAN DANCE THEATER is virtually guaranteed to induce good cheer, particularly in ''Revelations,'' the Ailey masterpiece that never loses its ability to bring audiences to their feet. On Wednesday the company begins with Twyla Tharp's magisterial ''Golden Section'' and ends with ''Revelations'': not a bad way to presage 2009. At 7 p.m., New York City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org; $65 to $175.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (91%); DANCE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



973 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; FORT GREENE CLINTON HILL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: A Plan for Unity Sets Merchants at Odds

BYLINE: By JAKE MOONEY

 BODY:
CARS were moving in two directions last week on the stretch of Fulton Street in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn, for the first time since a two-year construction project tore up the road and sidewalk and forced all traffic to flow one way. The effect of the construction on the businesses along the street was devastating, merchants said. Now, some are worried that another jolt is coming. 
 The unlikely source of their anxiety is a new business improvement district -- usually an uncontentious development in New York -- that was approved on Dec. 18 by the City Council; it covers a mile-long stretch of Fulton Street between Rockwell Place and Classon Avenue, passing through Clinton Hill and Fort Greene.
 In such a district, property owners pay a fee to support a local organization that handles tasks like extra street cleaning, security, marketing and holiday lighting. The fees are usually passed on to merchants who rent space in the district. And on Fulton Street, some vocal shopkeepers and residents say the proposed services are not worth the additional money.
 In a survey completed this month by the city's Department of Small Business Services, the district was endorsed by a majority of property owners along the strip. But opponents, who have become increasingly vocal in recent weeks, said most of the support came from the relatively prosperous stretch of Fulton Street in Fort Greene rather than from Clinton Hill. 
 ''These poor people over there, they're barely alive after all this work with the road,'' Schellie Hagan, a BID opponent and Clinton Hill resident, said last week, calling the district an ''ungainly creature'' that forced together economically disparate areas. 
 Even as supporters cite the district's benefits, among them cleaner and more inviting streets, Ms. Hagan said, ''they don't tell you what it will do is drive out, maybe, your dad who runs a mom-and-pop, and if you refuse to pay the tax they can put a lien on your property.''
 In response, Councilwoman Letitia James, a Clinton Hill resident who represents the area, said similar districts have helped revitalize nearby stretches of Myrtle and Flatbush Avenues.
 ''Sometimes change is scary,'' Ms. James said. ''Individuals fear change because they don't know what's to come, and I understand that.'' 
 She insisted, however, that the time is right for improvements to make the area more attractive. For one thing, a large new housing and retail development should soon be completed at Fulton Street and Vanderbilt Avenue. For those worried about the BID, Ms. James said, ''They've got to trust the market, trust my commitment.''
 Atchudta Barkr, the owner of Sister's Community Hardware, which is on the disputed strip, said she is open to supporting the district but only if its mission goes beyond the current emphasis on street cleaning and security. 
 ''New stores have opened and they're really teetering on the edge, and sweeping's not going to help them,'' Ms. Barkr added. ''We sweep. We call the cops. We do that already.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''They've got to trust the market,'' a local official said of opponents to a proposed business improvement district. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); APPROVALS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); CITIES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



974 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Rubbernecking the Wreckage of 2008: Cars Didn't Cause the Crisis

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
WITH car sales at a crawl in 2008, and worse numbers projected for 2009, the auto industry is a depressing place. It's worse for the domestic companies, whose leaders should have driven to Washington in the Joads' Dust Bowl truck to plead their poverty case.
Yet the cars themselves are solid, if only people had the cash, credit and confidence to buy them. And while the overnight shift from trucks to cars caught everyone by surprise, the industry has no choice but to dance with the cars that brought them, at least until new faces arrive. 
Ford was taken to task in some quarters for rolling out a redesigned Ford F-150 pickup. Yet even in this slumping, truck-averse market, the F-150 remained America's best-selling car or truck, as it's been for 27 years. Calling it quits would make as much sense as Apple pulling the plug on the iPod.
To me, that disconnect between the auto companies' balance sheets and the products they sell is the No. 1 thing that many citizens -- and Washington politicians -- don't grasp about the industry. Making bad cars eventually catches up with any automaker. But for more than a century, some companies have made good, great, even revolutionary cars without necessarily being successful in business.
Certainly, General Motors, Ford and Chrysler have too many deadbeat brands and models. But while G.M.'s financial cupboard may be bare, its product cupboard spilled out more critically lauded models than any other company this year, import or domestic.
Here are my favorite vehicles of the year:
1. BMW 1 SERIES Coupe or convertible, I'd kill to put the 128i or 135i in my own garage. It outhustles the larger 3 Series and costs at least $4,000 less.
2. HONDA FITI've owned economy cars that made me want to stash them behind a Dumpster. The Fit, in contrast, makes a virtue of cheapness. It's the roomiest, best-handling car in its class and gets 35 m.p.g. on the highway.
3. G.M.'S GIANT SLAYERS I'm referring to the Corvette ZR1, Cadillac CTS-V and Pontiac G8. The 205-m.p.h. ZR1 (638 horsepower), CTS-V (556 horses) and Pontiac G8 GT (361) deserve a three-peat mention. All of them can hang with, or beat, snooty European models with bigger names and much bigger price tags. All three put the lie to the notion that G.M. cannot build a world-class machine that doesn't have a hound dog in the back.
4. MERCEDES-BENZ GL320 BLUETEC The Mercedes M-Class diesel is terrific, but the larger GL may benefit even more from the Bluetec clean-diesel technology. This royal-plush S.U.V. gets 23 m.p.g. on the highway.
5. DODGE CHALLENGER If you never got the pony car you asked for in the '70s, hop into the reborn Challenger. The Dodge, whose three engines max out with a 425-horsepower Hemi V-8, is as fast and extroverted as you'd expect.
6. LAMBORGHINI GALLARDO LP560-4 Lamborghini fixed everything that was wrong with the previous Gallardo -- hair-trigger brakes, balky transmission -- and amped up everything that was right: the future-classic styling, superb all-wheel-drive performance and a 560-horsepower V-10 served under glass.
7. TOYOTA VENZA Toyota knows more about the American family than Oprah, so it's not surprising that its Venza -- a Camry-based tall-wagon thingy -- is an ideal family conveyance: Enormous inside, effortless to drive and easy on gas. What's surprising from this conservative automaker is the Venza's daringly different styling.
8. BMW X6 With apologies to my colleagues, some auto reactionaries just don't get it. They say the X6 is ugly. But pretty women reacted to the tall, swoopy design as though Justin Timberlake were inside, so I'll stick with that. The BMW isn't supposed to seat six or be socially defensible. It's supposed to be the Ferrari of S.U.V.'s, and its game-changing performance unseats the Porsche Cayenne as the class benchmark. Only a Hooveresque economy is keeping this Bimmer from being a smash with the style-first, cost-who-cares crowd.
9. NISSAN 370Z The Nissan GT-R has been gobbling up auto awards this year, so I'd rather extol this other Nissan sports car, which costs half as much. Starting at $30,000, the 332-horsepower Z is stronger, swifter and more solid than the departing model, and it looks terrific. If there's a sweeter two-seater for less than $40,000, I haven't driven it.
10. DODGE RAM Conventional wisdom flatters the Ford F-150. But the Ford doesn't satisfy my truck jones as the Ram does. The Dodge looks badder and it rides and handles better. And its available 390-horse Hemi V-8 thumps anything from Ford or Chevy.
Didn't Make the Cut
1. AUDI A4I'm supposed to love the new A4, which is so techno, so tasteful, so German. So what's the problem? Perhaps it's my sense that Audi has forgotten what the A4 was about: a luxury car that opened its doors to younger, less elite buyers. The new A4 feels overwrought, oversized and overpriced.
2. HYUNDAI GENESIS The Genesis is roomy and well-built and delivers a fat roster of luxury features for around $35,000. In this economy, that may be smart. Yet luxury is also about desire. And it's hard to desire a car that, from its generic grille to its copycat cabin, seems more like cold data than a hot date.
3. INFINITI EX35 My wife adored the EX35, which she correctly assessed was not a crossover at all, but the world's most expensive hatchback. The EX is fast, deluxe and overflowing with gizmos, but I don't see why anyone wouldn't want its sibling, the awesome G37 sedan, instead.
4. FORD FLEX Well packaged and as quiet as most luxury crossovers, the Flex puts the final nail in the Explorer's coffin. The styling grabs attention; now if only the V-6 powertrain were on par with the rest of the package.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DODGE CHALLENGER: Time traveler from the '70s. (AU1)
SMART FORTWO Cute but crude.
BMW 1 SERIES A good thing in a smaller package.
 BMW X6 Attention getter. (AU10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); PICKUP TRUCKS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); IMPORT TRADE (72%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011



975 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PROTOTYPE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: The Comics Are Feeling The Pain Of Print

BYLINE: By LESLIE BERLIN. 
Leslie Berlin is project historian for the Silicon Valley Archives at Stanford. E-mail: prototype@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IN many ways, Stephan Pastis is living his dream. In 2002, after years of frustration, he quit his job as a lawyer to pursue cartooning. Today his daily strip, ''Pearls Before Swine,'' appears in more than 500 newspapers. He says he answers his fan mail ''in groups of 100.'' 
 Nevertheless, he can't help worrying. 
 ''Newspapers are declining,'' he says. ''For a syndicated cartoonist, that's like finally making it to the major leagues and being told the stadiums are all closing, so there's no place to play.'' 
 Lisa Wilson, senior vice president of syndication for United Media, which distributes ''Pearls Before Swine'' through its United Feature Syndicate, says simply: ''The newspapers' economic challenges become ours.''
 What do you do when the distribution method you have relied on for more than a century begins to falter? In the last two months, two syndicates have revealed their hands.
 In November, United Feature Syndicate, which distributes 50 comics, including ''Peanuts,'' ''Dilbert'' and ''Get Fuzzy,'' made its full archives and portfolio available free on its Comics.com Web site. The company also added social networking features for tagging and rating comics. Visitors can have comics sent to them via e-mail or RSS feed.
 The point is to attract more and, ideally, younger readers to the syndicate's comics. 
 In the past, Comics.com displayed the current day's strips and a 30-day archive free. Anyone wishing to see older comics or receive comics via e-mail had to pay a subscription fee of less than $20 a year, according to Ms. Wilson.
 The syndicate decided that the subscription model ''was limiting the audience for comics,'' she says. It appears to have been right. After the change, traffic to the site increased 48 percent, to 571,000 unique visitors in the United States in November, according to comScore Media Metrix. 
 Today, Comics.com serves more as a marketing tool than a significant source of revenue. Ms. Wilson says the site does bring in money from advertisers, which include cellphone companies and Netflix. But its primary function is to build a fan base -- and to provide links to sites where fans can buy books, calendars and other items featuring characters from the comics. No one expects Comics.com to fully compensate for what Ms. Wilson calls ''declines on the print side.'' The site, she says, is ''a platform for what comes next.'' 
 Douglas Edwards thinks he knows what comes next: comics on mobile devices. Mr. Edwards is chief executive of Uclick, the digital arm of the media company Andrews McMeel Universal. Another division of the company is Universal Press Syndicate, which distributes ''Garfield,'' ''Calvin and Hobbes'' and ''Doonesbury,'' among others.
 In the last two months, Uclick has placed several bets on the iPhone, which Mr. Edwards says is a good platform for comics because it has a relatively large screen that makes text easier to read. Uclick sells comics-themed wallpaper and animations for cellphones. In November, the company began selling graphic novels on iTunes. 
 Last week, Andrews McMeel Universal introduced a new version of its free GoComics Web site, optimized for the iPhone. GoComics has many of the same features as Comics.com, as well as a pay-to-post area for emerging cartoonists called Comics Sherpa. Mr. Edwards says GoComics is profitable but declines to give specific figures.
 Cartoonists are not waiting for the syndicates to develop new business models. They are posting to free sites like Comic Genesis and Webcomics Nation. Some Web comics, like ''The Argyle Sweater'' by Scott Hilburn, have been picked up for syndication, but that is unusual. Even more rarely, a Web comic might attract a large following at a stand-alone site; such is the case with ''Penny Arcade,'' a video gaming strip.
 Cartoonists are also experimenting with color, animation, sound and novel distribution methods. 
 Garfield.com allows fans of Jim Davis's strip to send cards via e-mail, play online games and download screen savers. Visitors to Dilbert.com can download widgets for their Web pages or replace the punch lines of the strip's creator, Scott Adams, with their own. The site also features 30-second animated strips produced by RingTales, based in Santa Monica, Calif., which animates and distributes New Yorker cartoons. ''Peanuts'' motion comics -- essentially, short cartoons based on comic strips -- are available on iTunes.
 The creators of the comic strip ''Zits,'' which is syndicated by King Features, are working with Jantze Studios in San Anselmo, Calif. , to develop ''audio comics,'' in which a camera pans over a strip while actors read the text. 
 Mr. Pastis, who recently created a Facebook page for ''Pearls Before Swine'' and is in talks about animating the strip, says it is challenging to appear simultaneously in newspaper comics pages, which have what he calls a ''1950s sensibility,'' and in a media universe where the younger readers he wants to attract can download episodes of ''South Park'' to their iPods. 
 Mr. Pastis says he must embrace the balancing act. ''Being known now means being known in a number of different formats,'' he says, adding that one has to go where the readers are. 
 But Brian Walker, a member of the creative team behind the comics ''Beetle Bailey'' and ''Hi and Lois'' -- both syndicated by King Features and created by Mr. Walker's father, Mort Walker -- warns that too much exposure ''can take away from the strip itself.'' If a comic's characters are everywhere, he asks, why bother reading the newspaper strip?
 And Mr. Walker, who is also a comics historian, believes that comics are best appreciated on paper. He likens reading a comic on a screen to watching a movie on an iPod: the general idea comes through, but some of the essential artistry is lost.
 In print, the comics are as much a part of many people's morning routines as a cup of coffee. The question now is whether daily comics can make a jump to mass electronic distribution and a younger readership -- or whether they will be tossed aside like yesterday's news. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stephan Pastis, who produces the ''Pearls Before Swine'' comic strip, says ''being known now means being known in a number of different formats.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDIA SYNDICATION (90%); NEWS SYNDICATION (90%); RSS (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); LAWYERS (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); SOCIAL MEDIA (70%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); WEB SITES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED MEDIA (56%); NETFLIX INC (51%); ANDREWS MCMEEL UNIVERSAL (50%); UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE (50%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (51%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (51%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



976 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1859 words

HEADLINE: A Pinch Becomes a Squeeze

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
A restaurant owner contemplates moving into a smaller space. A bicycle manufacturer lays off five workers. A car salesman postpones retirement. In October, The New York Times began tracking how six small businesses were handling the recession. The holiday season seems to have provided little relief: Layoffs, shorter hours and struggles to pay bills were common refrains in recent interviews conducted by Ken Belson, Brent McDonald, Patrick McGeehan and Erik Olsen.
 But there was also some hope that the new year, and perhaps the new president, would bring relief. The Times will continue to follow the six businesses in 2009.
 Making Ends Meet 
 Michael Menna, 46, is the owner of Menna's Quality Meats and Salumeria, his family's 50-year-old meat market in the Throgs Neck section of the Bronx. With business down, he fell behind in his electric payments, and Con Ed demanded about $6,500 as a security deposit. He has cut hours for his four workers, asked his wife to help and started working part time as a D.J. to help pay bills. 
 There were days where you almost feel like you want to close the doors and walk away and say, ''I can't do it anymore.'' But that's not an option.
 Been doing this myself with my family for 37 years, and my father and my uncle for over 50 years. This is what I know, and I have a family to support.
 A couple of my suppliers cut me off. I'd been trying to pay cash whenever I can. So that was one of the most difficult things that I've been facing right now. They have to pay their bills as well. 
 Con Ed decided to give me a bill for a large sum -- a security deposit -- which kind of messed up the whole ballgame. So they threatened to shut my electric down. I actually borrowed some money from family and gave them some money. 
 You lie in bed sometimes wondering how you're going to get through the next day and make sure everyone gets paid. That's one of the big issues. How are you going to make the mortgage payment? How are you going to make the Con Ed bill? How are you going to pay your kids' tuition?
 I'm hoping that we get some support from Washington for small businesses. Just the way that they're supporting the big corporations, maybe they could help out the little guy.
 I was a musician for about 25 years. If things get any worse, I'm ready to put the band back together again and get back on the road.
 Feeling the Pinch of Wall Street's Slump
 Mouhamad Shami, 54, the owner of Alfanoose, a Middle Eastern restaurant on Maiden Lane in the financial district, says he has lost almost 20 pounds in the last two months worrying about how to save his business. Mr. Shami said that his sales have plummeted as nearby firms have cut jobs and reduced or eliminated food allowances. He is considering moving Alfanoose to a smaller space and releasing most of his staff.
 Last month, it was down 35 percent. This month, it's going to be more, I can tell. Usually at lunchtime, there is no place to sit. On delivery, dinners, we're hardly doing anything. They are really cutting down and they're cutting down big. If the company's not paying for their dinner, they're not going to spend $20. They can get a slice of pizza for $3.
 The price of oil went down, but all of my prices are still up. What they are waiting for? Leg of lamb, it's still the same price. Beef, Angus, it's still the same.
 Everybody tells me they are down, even the pita bread guy. I used to get three cases a day. Now I buy for two days and I skip a third day. I keep what's left in the freezer. Last week, I called him, I said, ''Don't send me for two days'' because our freezers, they were full. 
 I did have to let one guy go, so far. One who was full time and one who was part time. My wife is back to working full time because we are trying to save the business. This year we didn't get no catering for the holidays, for Christmas. Last year, there was no limit.
 Me and my wife came to the conclusion that we should take a smaller place, just me and her and a dishwasher, like when we started out. I noticed that there are lots of places that are empty and nobody's renting. It's going to hurt me if I have to leave this place. The woodwork, I did it all myself. I'm very proud of it.
 Scaling Back Staff
 Wayne Sosin is the president of Worksman Cycles in Ozone Park, Queens, a 110-year-old shop that produces heavy-duty bicycles and tricycles used in warehouses and factories. In October, a manager at the company was worried about rising costs, but confident that sales would remain strong. But orders from automakers and their suppliers have ''basically dried up to nothing.'' 
 During the summer, our business was so busy that for a while we were actually unable to fill orders that people wanted to place with us. In September, I would have said, ''Business is wonderful,'' because people really like what we were doing. Our products were a good alternative to gas-guzzling vehicles. 
 Nobody is buying anything at this point because their factories are on austerity budgets, you know, a lot of plant close-downs and layoffs. You know, that's definitely had a ripple effect and it's definitely trickled down to us.
 We actually had to cut our factory hours fairly significantly. Now keep in mind that we were coming off a high level of employment, based on the level of demand we had had. So we had a larger staff than normal. But we've had two people retire. And we've had about four or five people that we've had to lay off. And we've cut hours for other people. So yeah, it's had a pretty devastating effect on our workers and on our company.
 I've been here since 1979, so I know firsthand how to deal with some bad economic conditions that have a negative impact on the business. But this is one of the cases where small is beautiful. As a small business, you can react to the times, to make sure that you can get through rough times and you're well positioned for the good times. That's the strategy we're going to take through this winter. You know, let's get through this winter, do what we need to do to make sure we're in a good position when the spring comes, and hopefully there will be improvement in the business climate.
 Frozen by the Credit Markets
 Lawrence Vayda, 65, a sales consultant at Parkfield Saab in Rochelle Park, N.J., has been selling cars for 17 years -- the last four at Parkfield Saab -- and says he has never seen business this bad. Two months ago, he had trouble making sales after Saab's parent company, General Motors, stopped offering lease-sales deals, causing customers with maturing leases to return their cars. With G.M. facing bankruptcy and his job in some doubt, Mr. Vayda has restricted his spending. 
 Things are no better going forward than two months ago. Two or three customers a day are coming in and returning their cars and going to another maker. 
 Once they are in a different brand, they're gone. I saw a guy who was on his fifth Saab; he's moving on. It's very dispiriting.
 There are fewer customers coming in, but it's not specific to us. It's true across the industry right now. Showroom traffic is down by half to two-thirds.
 When the credit markets unfreeze and when there's some sort of stability in the auto industry, you're going to see a big spike in new car sales because I think people are holding on to their cars for a little longer.
 My wife's retirement fund has contracted somewhat, mine has contracted somewhat. We were going to retire this year, but we've put that off a year until 2010. 
 I might have to throttle back a bit. We go out to dinner less. We're planning to travel less frequently. Every three months, we would go to our home in Florida, or visit my daughter in Las Vegas or my wife's daughter in Arizona. We're not going out there this year.
 Maxing Out Tours
 Georgette Blau, 34, is president of On Location Tours in Midtown Manhattan, which gives bus tours of New York locations from popular movies and television shows, including ''Ugly Betty'' and ''Sex and the City.'' Though she says her holiday numbers have been steady, she thinks business will be off more next year than she predicted two months ago. She has eliminated part-time positions and delayed seeking a line of credit because the market is tight. 
 The first thing we lost was the domestic tourist, and that was sort of saved by the foreigners coming in, and then that recently changed with the dollar getting stronger.
 I just think there's a lot of uncertainty out there. People are not sure if they should come to New York or travel or save their money, if their jobs are going to be there down the road. 
 Through the first week in January is a very strong time for us. We do see those numbers are staying strong. A lot of people are coming to New York. They probably already planned trips to New York several months ago.
 What we've really been trying to do is fill up our buses to the max, have fewer tours running but making sure that we're maxing out those tours and filling up the seats. We haven't made a lot of cuts yet. We've just cut some of our weekend staff, but we haven't made staff cuts.
 My worst nightmare would be to cut staff, because I feel a responsibility toward our staff.
 I do feel that the growth will happen maybe after a year from now, and that we'll be able to move forward. It's just frustrating, because we just moved into these offices and we were hoping to immediately hire one or two people and to feel comfortable in these spaces. It's just been a strange transition, being in a new office and with the recession and the uncertainty.
 I find that I'm sleeping differently at night. My stress levels are a little bit higher. I'm trying to stay positive.
 Staying Optimistic
 Ruben Villasante, 46, is the owner of a small contracting firm, V & V Construction, that specializes in painting and home renovations in Ditmas Park, a thriving neighborhood in Brooklyn. In October, he said his work had been down 50 percent from last year. But he has orders for the spring.
 It's still slow. The phone doesn't ring much. But I'm one of the lucky ones who's still working.
 I'm not getting big jobs, just small ones here and there, from people I know. People have things to be done, things that have to be fixed. They have to fix the stairs or patch a piece of the roof or fix a cabinet. That's what happens in slow times. It goes into slow motion. 
 When the busy season starts in March, we'll be busy. I was talking to other guys I know and one said, ''I have two weeks and that's it.'' Another guy told me, ''Take whatever you can get because it's so tough.'' 
 If they stabilize the market so it doesn't go up and down, maybe in the 9,000s, it will give people a little security; that will help everybody. We haven't seen the foreclosures in Ditmas Park. This is business and professional people; they're not going to lose their job or house. So if the market gets stable, people will spend.
 I have four workers, one is Irish and three Mexicans. I give them a bonus of one week's work, and that won't change. Looking ahead, it looks better than two months ago and it's going to get better faster than what everyone thinks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MICHAEL MENNA (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A25)
MOUHAMAD SHAMI (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/NEW YORK TIMES)
WAYNE SOHN (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK OLSEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
LAWRENCE VAYDA (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER)
GEORGETTE BLAU (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A26) CHARTS: SALES TAX COLLECTIONS
STATE INCOME TAC WITHHOLDING
UNEMPLOYED
AIRLINE PASSENGERS
 BUILDING PERMITS (pg.A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); MUSIC (60%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (56%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2008



977 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; LETTER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street, Not W.P.A.

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 Re ''After a Capitalist W.P.A., What Next?'' by Roberta Smith [Dec. 21]: 
 Call it capitalist though one may, the W.P.A. seems an odd way to spin the history of the art market over the last decade or so. 
 The W.P.A. was a response to a badly shaken economy at a time when the very notion of a market guided by an invisible hand had been rattled. This, in oversimplified terms, is the lesson that economists and others are now seeking to apply to the current economic situation, bringing with it more stringent oversight and the like. 
 Viewed in this light, the art market's mushrooming bets of recent years appear more and more like all those wagers whose ultimate thinness we are now reckoning with. 
 In other words, the W.P.A. hasn't yet come to the art market. Whether it will or not is another matter. 
 James Kessenides
 St. Petersburg, Fla.
 The writer is an assistant professor of history at the University of South Florida. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ART HISTORY (87%); WRITERS (73%); HISTORY (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH FLORIDA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



978 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2228 words

HEADLINE: Prosecco Wants Its Place in the Sun

BYLINE: By AMY CORTESE

 BODY:
IN 1984, Fabio Zardetto, chief winemaker at his family-run vineyard in northern Italy, leapt at the chance to become one of the first bottlers to export prosecco, the sparkling wine, to the United States. 
 At first, his efforts on behalf of his bubbly fizzled. ''I had to push people to taste the prosecco,'' recalled Mr. Zardetto, now 50. ''I would run behind them with a glass saying, 'Please, taste this.' '' 
 When they did try it, he said, they were pleasantly surprised. Sales of Zardetto prosecco grew to 100,000 cases in the United States in 2007, from 50 cases in 1984.
 With its fresh flavor, pleasing bubbles and gentle price tag -- it typically sells for $10 to $20 a bottle -- prosecco has gained many fans worldwide. Global sales have been growing by double-digit percentages for 10 years, to more than 150 million bottles last year. And with consumers in an economizing mood this holiday season, prosecco is an increasingly popular alternative to Champagne, which has been soaring in price. 
 But prosecco is also encountering some growing pains. From its traditional home in northern Italy, it is now waging a war against outsiders, just as Champagne, its more elite cousin in France, has done for so many years. 
 A host of producers elsewhere in Italy and as far away as Brazil are trying to cash in on the drink's newfound popularity. Because prosecco is the name of a grape, like chardonnay or cabernet, anyone can use the name. 
 Today, about 60 percent of all prosecco -- some eight million cases -- comes from producers outside the traditional prosecco-growing region of Conegliano-Valdobbiadene, a cluster of villages about a half-hour's drive north of Venice. The newcomers are not held to the same strict production standards as the traditional producers, which are tightly governed under Italian wine laws.
 One product, Rich Prosecco, is made by an Austrian company whose ads feature Paris Hilton. In some, she is naked and spray-painted gold. What's worse to some producers, the product is sold in a 6.8-ounce can, in gas stations as well as stores, for around $3. 
 ''It's absolutely vulgar,'' says Vittorio Zoppi, marketing manager for the prosecco consortium.
 Claus Jahnke, a sales and marketing executive at Rich, says he is puzzled by the reaction to the product, which uses Italian grapes. ''We have invested a lot of money in advertising and P.R. to launch Rich and promote prosecco,'' he says. ''We gave this famous grape a helping hand in conquering the world.''
 The Italian winemakers worry that upstarts will weaken prosecco's image just as it is taking off. 
 ''If everyone around the world plants prosecco, we will lose the value of the name,'' says Ludovico Giustiniani, vice president of a consortium that represents about 150 wineries in the traditional prosecco-producing region. 
 Over months of discussions, the consortium, along with a broader group of growers and producers, has hammered out a plan that would create an official prosecco production zone tied exclusively to northern Italy. Only wine produced in that region could be labeled as prosecco. If the plan is approved by the Italian government -- a decision is expected by early 2009 -- prosecco would then be eligible for ''protected designation of origin'' status under European laws intended to protect regional products from Champagne and port to Serrano ham.
 ''It will let prosecco be an Italian product -- and nothing else,'' says Giancarlo Moretti Polegato, the owner of Villa Sandi, one of the area's prominent wineries. 
 That is the theory, at least. Protection from the European Union would extend only across its 27 member countries, and, as Champagne producers have discovered, a lot of policing is still required. 
 The Champagne region of France has been officially designated since 1927 as the authentic home of the wine that bears its name, but its trade organization still spends millions of dollars battling producers of items as varied as sparkling wine, bubble bath and bottled water that also use the word. 
 ''We have to spend a lot of money and energy protecting our product,'' says Sam Heitner, director of the Office of Champagne USA, a trade group that represents the interests of Champagne producers.
 That spending is on display in Times Square, where a giant screen flashes an ad by Mr. Heitner's group for holiday revelers. A bottle, labeled ''American Champagne,'' is covered by a red, Venetian-style carnival mask. It's part of the group's ''Unmask the truth'' campaign, which notes its opposition to the name's use by United States producers. 
 Producers of prosecco may also be in for a long fight.
 PROSECCO'S success can be seen in the steep-hilled villages surrounding Conegliano and Valdobbiadene. 
 The area has grown from a sleepy agricultural area to one of Italy's wealthiest enclaves, dotted with shiny new wineries and farmhouses that have been transformed into rustic inns to support a growing wine tourism trade. 
 Prosecco sales from this area alone were 370 million euros last year. And a hectare (2.47 acres) of vineyard in the most coveted spots, like Cartizze, sells for more than $1 million. Prosecco from Cartizze, a panettone-shaped hill in Valdobbiadene where 140 growers farm about 250 acres, fetches about $40 a bottle.
 The vines are tended and harvested by hand. Machines cannot navigate the vertical angles, although helicopters are occasionally used when a vineyard needs to be sprayed. The soil and the mix of warm days and cool nights make for an especially flavorful prosecco -- an affinity given official weight in 1969, when the region was awarded the status of denominazione di origine controllata, or D.O.C., Italy's version of a wine appellation. 
 The region's turn of fortunes, though, is relatively recent. Although prosecco grapes have been cultivated here for three centuries, in the early days they were made mostly into still wine for local consumption. The vines shared the steep hillsides with more valuable cows and sheep.
 It was only after a new method for producing sparkling wine became widespread in the mid-1900s that things began to change. 
 Champagne and other sparkling wines typically get their bubbles when they are fermented a second time, with added sugar and yeast. The yeast feeds on the sugar and converts into alcohol and carbon dioxide. When the bottle is opened, the escaping gas gives the wine its bubbles and characteristic ''pop.''
 Champagne re-ferments in bottles, an expensive and labor-intensive process. But the new production methods allowed prosecco makers to re-ferment their wine in large tanks, a process that kept prices down. That, and prosecco's light, delicate flavor and low alcohol content, made it an especially versatile wine. 
 IN Italy, prosecco is enjoyed year-round -- and practically around the clock. ''The only moment we don't drink it is for breakfast,'' Mr. Giustiniani says.
 That approachability has helped propel the popularity of prosecco -- in the 1960s throughout Italy, in the '80s in Germany and neighboring countries and in the '90s in the United States, which today is prosecco's No. 1 market outside of Italy. 
 Perhaps no one pushed harder to establish prosecco in the United States than Mionetto, a winery founded in Valdobbiadene in 1886 and now one of the area's largest, with sales of 40 million euros a year. 
 Seeing the tremendous growth potential in the 1990s, this winery began expanding aggressively. It established Mionetto USA to control distribution in North America and has spent millions of dollars promoting prosecco and the Mionetto brand. Today, the company has the leading market share, roughly 33 percent, in the United States, with 168,000 cases a year of its D.O.C. and non-D.O.C. prosecco. 
 Still, says Sergio Mionetto, who took over as chief winemaker from his grandfather in 1956, ''we believe we're just at the tip of the iceberg.'' 
 At the bustling Union Square Cafe in Manhattan, where the house prosecco is Mr. Mionetto's top-of-the-line Sergio (named after himself), prosecco by the glass outsells Champagne two to one, says Stephen Paul Mancini, director of wine and spirits at the restaurant. ''Prosecco is an extremely popular product for us,'' he adds. And some retailers report that prosecco is flying off shelves this holiday season.
 Prosecco is also catching on in new markets, like China, India and Vietnam, causing producers to think even bigger. 
 ''Prosecco can be the best-selling sparkling wine of the world,'' says Gianluca Bisol, a 21st-generation winemaker and general manager of the Bisol winery, in Valdobbiadene. He figures that prosecco can overtake Champagne in sales volume in the next 25 years or so.
 The problem is that others saw the potential, too. It started with the relative newcomers in the plains of northern Italy. Growers there are less regulated than their D.O.C. kin; they were granted the Italian wine system's least-stringent designation, known as I.G.T., in 1995. They can produce almost double the volume of wine per hectare, and quality can vary.
 In the flatlands, winemakers can use machines to harvest and tend to their vines, at about a tenth of the cost, Mr. Bisol and others say. ''For these reasons,'' Mr. Bisol says, ''this area that didn't exist 25 years ago now accounts for 60 percent of prosecco production.'' 
 A more recent worry for the consortium and newer growers is that countries like Brazil, Romania, Argentina and Australia have begun to plant prosecco. Brazil, in particular, has embraced the grape, perhaps not surprisingly, given that its main wine region is populated by northern Italian immigrants. 
 Close to 2,000 acres of prosecco are planted in Brazil, Mr. Bisol says. 
 ''The Brazilians like parties,'' Mr. Bisol says. ''They drink a lot of prosecco.'' The homegrown prosecco could cut into Italian sales there: Brazil is already the fifth-largest export market for Italian prosecco. 
 Closer to home, German and Austrian producers have taken to buying tanks of Italian prosecco produced in the plains and shipping it to their countries to be bottled. Or canned, in the case of Rich Prosecco. 
 When Ms. Hilton traveled to northern Italy to promote Rich Prosecco two years ago, ''it was a big scandal for the area,'' Mr. Bisol says. ''The winegrowers were very angry.'' She has not returned, he says. 
 Gunther Aloys, a hotelier and entrepreneur in the Austrian resort town of Ischgl who introduced Rich Prosecco in 2006, plans to take it to the United States next year. And Mr. Jahnke, the sales and marketing executive at Rich, said the company was following the developments with the Italian producers' proposal to the Italian government. 
 THE threat of foreign-brand prosecco has prompted northern Italian producers, of both D.O.C. and I.G.T. prosecco, to work together to protect their turf. They say they believe that their proposal will raise quality and prevent others from calling their products prosecco. 
 The plan would create a broad new D.O.C. designation to govern the hundreds of I.G.T. prosecco producers that have sprung up across eight northern Italian provinces in the plains from Treviso to Trieste. The producers would have to comply with strict quality controls, including lower yields per hectare and stronger oversight. 
 The region of Conegliano-Valdobbiadene, meanwhile, would be elevated to Italy's highest designation for wine regions, known as D.O.C.G.
 The key is to link prosecco to its traditional home.
 ''We don't want to end up with something like pinot grigio,'' says Primo Franco, owner of the Nino Franco winery in Valdobbiadene, referring to another white wine grape from the Veneto region that today is grown around the world. 
 Because prosecco is also the name of a northern Italian village where the grape is believed to have originated, the consortium can make an argument, too, that prosecco is a place name that can be protected just like Chianti, Champagne and others. 
 By bringing all of northern Italy's prosecco makers into the fold, the winemakers hope to do more than give prosecco a territorial identity. They also want the muscle power to meet growing demand and achieve their goal of matching or even besting Champagne, which today produces some 300 million bottles a year. About 150 million bottles of Italian prosecco are produced a year. 
 Prosecco producers say they believe that with the new plan, they can double their output to 300 million or even 400 million bottles a year, while providing consumers with a guarantee of quality.
 ''Champagne is the king of the bubble,'' Mr. Bisol says. ''But prosecco maybe can be considered the small prince.''
 In recent weeks, the winemakers have been scrambling to nail down a final proposal to the Italian government before a year-end deadline. The producers hope to be eligible for a streamlined European Union system that goes into effect in August. If all goes well, the new prosecco protections will be in place for the 2009 harvest. 
 But that is just a start. European Union regulations are valid only for members, and deals have to be struck with countries outside of the union, like the United States or Brazil, on an, ahem, case-by-case basis. For now, says Mr. Moretti Polegato of Villa Sandi, ''everybody involved in prosecco production is happy.'' 
 You can almost hear the corks popping. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sergio Mionetto and other northern Italian winemakers have seen a wave of popularity for prosecco, a sparkling wine.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVE YODER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU1)
The Bisol family's vineyards, where prosecco grapes are grown. The grape has been grown for 300 years in northern Italy, originally for still wines.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVE YODER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Gianluca Bisol is a 21st-generation winemaker and general manager of his family's winery in Valdobbiadene.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVE YODER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 At Union Square Cafe in Manhattan, prosecco by the glass is outselling Champagne two to one. It is also catching on in new markets like China.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GIANNI CIPRIANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Sparkling Sales for Fizzy Wines: Champagne, prosecco and other effervescent wines are more popular than ever. Spending on sparkling wines in nearly every country increased in the last five years, particularly in East Asia, Eastern Europe and South America. (Source: Euromonitor International)(BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); WINE (90%); WINERIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); SALES FIGURES (75%); GAS STATIONS (69%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (67%)

PERSON: PARIS HILTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (74%) ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (78%); EASTERN ASIA (75%); EASTERN EUROPE (59%); AUSTRIA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



979 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; LETTER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: Year In Architecture: So Long, Indulgences

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 Re ''It was Fun Till the Money Ran Out'' by Nicolai Ouroussoff [Dec. 21]: 
 Mr. Ouroussoff's article was a timely, and long overdue, critique of the forces that ''threatened to transform the city's skyline into a tapestry of individual greed.'' 
 His article states what many of us in the design profession have been fighting in our offices and our graduate schools for years: the architectural-star hero worship that leads to the ''vanity and self-delusion'' that has perverted the staples of 20th century Modernism. 
 For years the pages of our architectural journals, as well as those of your newspaper, have been filled with laudatory articles detailing some of the more extreme indulgences of the architects whom Mr. Ouroussoff mentions. I hope this economic crisis will bring us all back to our senses. 
 Perhaps, as Mr. Ouroussoff dreams, architects will now realize that we can be a significant part of the solution by providing creative economic designs for affordable and market-rate housing, sustainable and ecologically sensitive buildings and a strong national infrastructure. Our schools are filled with students eager to provide high-level design in the service of our entire population. 
 Leland D. Cott
 Cambridge, Mass.
 The writer is a principal of Bruner/Cott & Associates and an adjunct professor of urban design at Harvard Graduate School of Design.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); WRITERS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



980 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: The Military Budget: What to Cut and What to Keep

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 Your editorial on defense spending (''How to Pay for a 21st-Century Military,'' Dec. 21) advocated ending production of the F-22. That would be a major mistake. It is today's premier combat aircraft, unmatched in its stealth, maneuverability, range, flexibility and loads.
 Just as the Air Force F-15 and F-16 and the Navy F-14 and F-18 provided their services' ''high-low'' mix of capabilities and cost over three decades beginning in the early 1970s, the F-22 and F-35 make up the Air Force's high-low mix of fifth-generation fighters. Rather, stop buying the F-18 and accelerate its replacement, the F-35. 
 All-new designs like the F-22 and F-35 are also easier to maintain than earlier ones. While the F-22 regrettably was not adapted for the Navy as a successor for the F-14, we could lower the future cost of F-22s were Congress to allow Japan and Australia to buy this incomparable weapons system.
 Michael Strutzel Alexandria, Va., Dec. 21, 2008
 The writer, who retired from the Department of Defense in 2004, was an Air Force pilot in the 1960s.
 To the Editor:
 The very cogent editorial listed several otiose weapons systems. I would offer these additional recommendations.
 It has been at least a century since the Marine Corps fought as a ''corps'' of the Navy. Its commandant is a separate member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and it fights both as an amphibious assault entity and as an essentially autonomous ground combat unit. It might be past time for Army and Marine Corps units to cross-train and operate jointly.
 There was no mention of the Coast Guard, which in wartime has a blue-water escort mission, and also has a littoral-defense mission along our own shores. There is no obvious reason the Navy's destroyers, frigates and littoral fleet should be excluded from the Coast Guard's homeland missions.
 It's the Navy that delivers the Army and Marines to combat areas, and the blue-water transport fleet must be expanded to keep pace with expanded ground forces. This reinforces the need to economize on aircraft carriers and Virginia-class submarines, and divert financing to other classes of ships.
 David M. Hudelson Horse Shoe, N.C., Dec. 21, 2008
 To the Editor:
 You cite ''considerable'' potential savings from cuts in nuclear weapons, but don't provide an estimate.
 A recent report from the task force for a unified security budget, on which I served, estimates that a reduction in United States forces to 600 deployed weapons with 400 in reserve could save over $15 billion per year. The savings would come from reduced spending on the nuclear weapons complex, cuts in financing for nuclear delivery vehicles and the reduced operating costs of a smaller arsenal.
 There are plenty of reasons to get rid of nuclear weapons, as President-elect Barack Obama has suggested. But the budgetary savings involved represent an added benefit of moving toward a world free of nuclear armaments.
 William D. Hartung New York, Dec. 22, 2008
 The writer is the director of the arms and security initiative at the New America Foundation.
 To the Editor:
 You propose what should be cut from the United States' military budget but don't offer a thoughtful national security plan. It seems to me that cutting the military budget in the willy-nilly fashion you prescribe without articulating a national security doctrine would be like remodeling a New York skyscraper without an architectural plan.
 Before making any fundamental changes to the military's budget and organization, I hope President-elect Barack Obama first enunciates a new national security strategy.
 John Scott Cave Creek, Ariz., Dec. 21, 2008
 The writer is a retired Air Force major.
 To the Editor:
 Commendations for leading the charge against the so-called defense budget. It's about time we realized what a monstrous boondoggle and ruinous waste of our resources is entailed by our bloated military establishment and its leechlike private contractors.
 Along with the cuts you describe, we should also get rid of the idea of those ''littoral combat ships,'' which are but fancy names for the old gunboats that served the ''diplomacy'' of empires.
 In short, the United States must wake up from its imperial nightmares. The money and talent now wasted on these pathological endeavors of course must be redirected to serving the basic needs of our people and our planet. Our country and the world will be the better for it.
 Gerald Cavanaugh Ashland, Ore., Dec. 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); ARMIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); WRITERS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (72%); MARINE VESSELS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (83%); US AIR FORCE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



981 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; THE HUNT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: So Long, Suburbs

BYLINE: By JOYCE COHEN

 BODY:
AS an urbanist, Juliana Roberts Dubovsky was eager to forsake the suburbs and ditch the car.
 When she returned to her native Long Island after college, ''gas was probably my biggest cost,'' she said. ''I started to feel sick driving in my car all the time. You are doing harm to the environment by living in suburbia.'' 
 She and her husband, David Dubovsky, grew up a bike ride away from each other in Plainview, in Nassau County. They met in Hebrew school at Temple Chaverim and remained best friends throughout high school.
 She graduated from Smith College in Northampton, Mass., with a degree in American studies, while he received a degree in economics and an M.B.A. from Binghamton University. After their engagement in the summer of 2007, they lived with their respective parents while saving money to buy a one-bedroom apartment. 
 At that point, Ms. Dubovsky, now 23, worked at Vision Long Island, a planning organization in Northport. ''I had to drive from town to town and site to site,'' she said. ''It is ironic you have to drive so much when you are advocating for smart-growth planning projects that are all about walkability.'' 
 Mr. Dubovsky, 24, works in Midtown Manhattan as a sales manager for a software company. ''I really wanted an urban experience,'' he said, ''because I've lived in suburbs all my life.'' 
 The couple decided to hunt in Astoria, Queens, which seemed affordable and accessible, with plenty of great restaurants. 
 Their building must-have list included a laundry room, to avoid schlepping to a laundromat in bad weather, and an elevator. ''Having our grandmas visit was very important,'' Ms. Dubovsky said, ''and they're not up to stair-climbing.'' On walkscore.com, they checked the proximity of each address to stores and services. 
 Astoria contained plenty of midrise buildings, which is what they wanted. 
 ''When you have a really tall building, like above 10 stories, the less likely it is you are going to know everyone,'' Ms. Dubovsky said. ''From the window, if you can see your kid playing, then you have a dialogue between the building and the sidewalk. I was influenced by all those factors that urban planners look at.'' 
 They scoured a lineup of real estate Web sites every day, though they soon found that their price range, the low $200,000s, wasn't high enough.
 ''We were hoping to keep it artificially low, like you set the alarm clock earlier so it will help you get out of bed,'' Ms. Dubovsky said. ''I never get out of bed earlier, but I hope.'' 
 The affordable one-bedrooms at the Acropolis Gardens Co-ops, a 16-building complex, were small. They found the Paul Revere Co-op to be clean and secure. The only downside was its location in the mixed-use Dutch Kills area, a bit far from the action. But their bid of $260,000, for a one-bedroom listed at $275,000, was too low. 
 Location was an issue, too, at a new condominium directly across from Long Island City High School. The apartment looked right into the school's big windows. 
 Last spring, Mr. Dubovsky saw a new for-sale-by-owner listing in a six-story condominium. It seemed to fit every requirement. The asking price, $340,000, was on the high side. The monthly charge was $240.
 When they visited, Ms. Dubovsky was glad to find older women sitting outside in lawn chairs, chatting with passers-by. Though the apartment lacked a bedroom closet, it was in great shape. 
 Their first offer, $300,000, was declined. E-mail messages flew. The sellers, who were expecting a second child, set a deadline to receive their best and final offer. ''I felt they really knew what they were doing, or maybe they were good at negotiating,'' Mr. Dubovsky said. He offered $315,000, but others offered more.
 ''I was vindicated at that point,'' he said. ''I went to my max, it still wasn't high enough and there is nothing I could have done.'' 
 A few weeks later, when the other buyers failed to get a mortgage, negotiations resumed. This time, with mortgage rates higher, Mr. Dubovsky set a limit of $314,000. 
 He found he missed the kind of mediation a broker can bring to negotiations. ''In hindsight, part of the role of an agent is to bring a certain amount of professionalism so emotions don't run high,'' he said. ''When it came down to some nitty-gritty, the e-mails started firing a little fast.'' 
 Over time, Mr. Dubovsky used the telephone more. ''I think there was less miscommunication on the phone,'' he said. 
 Still, ''if I lost the apartment for $1,000, I would be pretty upset,'' he said. But he assumed the sellers didn't want to lose the sale for that amount, either.
 The Dubovskys got their price, left a 30 percent down payment and, after three months, received a 5.25 percent mortgage for first-time buyers through Sonny Mae, the State of New York Mortgage Agency. They closed on the deal in mid-September and moved in shortly thereafter. 
 They might have been ''the last people in 2008 to get a loan,'' Mr. Dubovsky said. ''It was a very tumultuous time, and a little nerve-wracking.''
 The weekend after we closed, ''we had one side of the family to see the apartment, and then we had the other side,'' Ms. Dubovsky said. It wasn't quite big enough for everyone to fit at once.
 The two married on Nov. 2 at the synagogue where they had met, and spent their honeymoon in Hawaii. ''You had to drive everywhere and I was so upset,'' Ms. Dubovsky said. ''But it was beautiful.''
 Meanwhile, Ms. Dubovsky was working mostly from home. While there during the day, she discovered something else. At 9 a.m. sharp, one neighbor blares some kind of polka- or disco-style exercise music. At 4 p.m., another one blasts U2. It has become their joke. ''Better during the day than at night,'' Mr. Dubovsky said. 
 Soon afterward, Ms. Dubovsky landed a new job at New Yorkers for Parks, a nonprofit group just blocks from her husband's office. ''The goal is the same -- to make the city a more sustainable, healthy place,'' she said happily. 
 The Dubovskys are moving their belongings piecemeal into their new home, so they continue to go to Long Island most weekends. They currently pay $150 a month for a spot in a parking lot, but hope to sell their car soon. As city dwellers, ''we shouldn't have to have a car,'' Ms. Dubovsky said. 
 They love commuting together by subway. Not only does it reduce their carbon footprint, but they also find it speedy and fun. 
 ''I can spend time with my husband and it's lovely,'' Ms. Dubovsky said. ''We're that annoying couple talking on the train.'' 
 E-mail: thehunt@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CITY DWELLERS: David and Juliana Dubovsky say living in Astoria means they no longer need a car. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.RE1)
The one-bedroom co-ops at Acropolis Gardens seemed small.
An offer on a one-bedroom at the Paul Revere Co-op was declined.
A six-story condo on 31st Avenue seemed to fit every requirement.
 David and Juliana Dubovsky are moving in piecemeal. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.RE4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (88%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); RESTAURANTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



982 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; SEATTLE JOURNAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: After Holdout Against Developers, More Than a House Is Left Behind

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
People love to point out Edith Macefield's tiny house in the old fishing village of Ballard and recount how she refused an offer of $1 million from developers who wanted to buy it. They had planned to level her home to make way for a boutique supermarket and a health club.
 The project, in faux industrial concrete and steel, is more evidence of change in a city whose growth and economic success over the past two decades have put its modest neighborhoods like Ballard under perpetual renovation. 
 Ms. Macefield had little time for trendy food or fitness. Her interests were opera and Sinatra, Garbo on videotape or the classics in dusty hardback. She had history, too. If she let you in the door, she might recount her escape from a concentration camp while she was an undercover agent for the British during World War II. She might tell of her liaisons, long ago, with men of means and renown. 
 ''She was just full of stories and stories and stories about her past,'' said Charlie Peck, whose friendship with Ms. Macefield began more than 20 years ago, after she gave him a collection of recordings of Benny Goodman, Paul Whiteman and other bandleaders on old 78s.
 Ms. Macefield's refusal to sell her house made the news more than once. In a city knotted over its shifting identity, she seemed a familiar face, old Seattle, vulnerable but resistant to the march of gentrification and blandness. Yet it turns out that Ms. Macefield was writing a different story, and her little house, which still stirs tension, was not all she left behind. It turns out that Ms. Macefield was not so knowable, even to the few people she invited into her life. She was not such a succinct symbol after all.
 ''Everybody that's come in and tried to talk about this has tried to create that image of her,'' said Mike Semandiris, whose family has owned a chili parlor around the corner for more than 70 years. ''But she didn't give a damn about preserving old Ballard. The lady just wanted to live in her house.''
 Ms. Macefield was 86 when she died in June of pancreatic cancer. Six months later, her 108-year-old bungalow is cloaked by what will soon become an LA Fitness club and a Trader Joe's, set to open next year. 
 Inside, bed sheets are still on the living room sofa where Ms. Macefield slept when she could no longer climb the stairs. Ceramic cows ornament the top of every appliance. A few copies of ''The Little House,'' the children's tale by Virginia Lee Burton of a country cabin swallowed by sprawling development, are in one corner. People she did not know would drop them off.
 In a bookcase in a dark hallway there is another book, not well known like the others. In fact, it is unclear whether anyone other than its author has ever read ''Where Yesterday Began.'' 
 Ms. Macefield paid to have her novel published in 1994, under the pen name Domilini. It is set against the backdrop of post-World War I Europe. 
 An introductory page begins, ''This story is for all those who have ever loved -- truly, deeply, irrevocably -- and in the thrust of disaster. For some, love simply dies -- and one moves on. But for a few, love is as lasting as the ages -- despite the impossibilities, the separation, the insured loneliness.''
 The book is 1,138 pages long, not counting the musical references, from Scottish folk songs to a 1915 work by the English composer Albert W. Ketelbey, and a 16-page glossary of the French, German and Italian phrases sprinkled throughout. ''I think it was kind of a love story,'' said Mr. Peck, the longtime friend. ''I never did read it.''
 The book is dedicated to ''B. Robert Aigner, M.D.,'' with no explanation why. Reached by phone at his home in a Seattle suburb, Dr. Aigner, 80, said he remembered Ms. Macefield was a patient, but nothing more.
 Dr. Aigner, a neurologist, was amazed and amused that Ms. Macefield would have dedicated her ambitious work to him. He had never heard of it. 
 ''I have no idea what I was treating her for,'' he said.
 She wrote other manuscripts and short stories, and, of course, there are the tales she told the few visitors she invited inside her house. 
 Ms. Macefield constructed her stories while the city surrounding her rushed to construct itself, while the new condos rose even as the big seagoing fish processors still sounded their horns on their way to Alaska, while the coffee shops became espresso shops and the bars became clubs. 
 She lived on a street whose other houses had been torn down decades ago. Not only did she have no real neighbors, but she also had no known family. Born in Oregon, she told people she had moved to Seattle from Europe as an adult to care for her mother. Her mother died many years ago, apparently in the house that Ms. Macefield refused to sell. 
 For years Mr. Peck was the person closest to her. They both loved music. He was a divorced father without much money when he met her in the 1980s. Soon he was driving her to appointments, helping get her groceries. He bought her the word processor that still sits on a desk in her house. She became like a grandmother to his sons. 
 ''She was a really curious person, but she was always fun,'' Mr. Peck said. 
 By the early 1990s, he said, Ms. Macefield had made him the beneficiary of her estate through a living trust. Now that she is gone, he said he has hired a lawyer to determine his rights. Not that Ms. Macefield had much beyond well-positioned real estate. All Mr. Peck said he knew was that she worked decades ago making deliveries for the Washington Dental Service. 
 In the fall of 2006, as developers were pressing Ms. Macefield, Mr. Peck tried to convince her to sell. She was in the hospital after having fallen and broken some ribs, he recalled, and the sale would have paid Ms. Macefield about $1 million, as well as help her move to new housing.
 ''She just pulled out, right there, at the last minute,'' said Mr. Peck, 63. ''She didn't trust them. It really hurt our relationship, too, because she thought I was in bed with these guys.'' Mr. Peck has since moved to another part of the state.
 In February, Ms. Macefield signed a new will that placed her estate in the control of a man she had known well for less than a year, Barry Martin, the senior superintendent of the construction project that was quickly surrounding her. The trailer from which Mr. Martin was overseeing the project was just a few dozen feet from Ms. Macefield's house. 
 ''At first, it was only 10 minutes of your time,'' said Mr. Martin, 52, ''but pretty soon she's actually counting on you. And you can't just walk away.''
 He took her to the doctor. Then he took out her laundry. Then he dropped off lunch. Then one night he cooked her halibut and new potatoes and green beans. Then it was three meals a day and then he was changing the liner on her dentures. Then, last spring, Ms. Macefield was told she had cancer. She died at home. 
 Word got out later that Mr. Martin had gained control of Ms. Macefield's estate. He had made no mention of this when reporters first interviewed him after her death.
 Some people sniped on the local blogs. Others weighed in at Mike's Chili Parlor, around the corner. They said Mr. Martin was an opportunist, either a tool of the developer or out for himself. 
 ''I am going to benefit,'' Mr. Martin said, standing in Ms. Macefield's kitchen, his eyes welling more than once with tears. ''And that's the dilemma.''
 What happened to him, Mr. Martin said, is what had happened to many people who Ms. Macefield let in her front door. He listened to her stories,and while he did not know if all of them were true, he liked that she told them, and he liked her.
 ''Barry's probably closer to altruistic than opportunistic,'' said Mr. Semandiris, of the chili parlor. ''I think once he got to know her he was probably into it for the right reasons.''
 Given the downturn in the market, nobody thinks the house will fetch anything close to $1 million anymore. Still, Mr. Martin said, he does plan to sell it, to make whatever he can to help pay for his daughters' college education. He said Ms. Macefield would have wanted it that way.
 He said he would have to muster the willpower to clean the place out, to gather up all those ceramic cows, to pack up the Puccini and Perry Como recordings. There also is the question of what to do with the stories that Ms. Macefield wrote.
 He, too, has yet to read ''Where Yesterday Began.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Before construction began on neighboring buildings, Edith Macefield refused developers' offer of $1 million to sell her house, which was built in 1900. She died in June. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A14)
 Barry Martin oversaw construction that surrounded Edith Macefield, and he befriended her. She revised her will to give Mr. Martin, shown in her house with a photo of her, control of her estate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (77%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); WORLD WAR II (69%); CANCER (50%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (50%)

COMPANY: TRADER JOE'S CO (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (91%) WASHINGTON, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



983 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SCENE STEALER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Blockbuster Openings, Lackluster Box Office

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
 WHAT a year for movie openings.
 I mean, who could forget ''Twilight''? Teenagers screaming for free tickets outside the dual-theater Westwood premiere here. Mayhem in the malls. Girls thirsting for Robert Pattinson. Box-office projections growing bigger and bigger as online vendors sold out theater after theater.
 It was amazing. When all is said and done, maybe 24 million tickets will be sold to that movie, based on current sales. That makes it almost as big as, what? 
 ''Patch Adams,'' the No. 10 movie of 1998. Or roughly the size of ''George of the Jungle,'' which placed No. 13 the year before. Or any number of films that are fondly remembered as midsize hits.
 Looking back, in fact, 2008 may be remembered as the year when Hollywood succeeded in redefining the Big Event.
 A ''movie of the century'' -- something that made you want to dress up, get in line, and act silly just to see it -- used to come along every year or two. The ''Star Wars'' films had that quality. So did ''Titanic,'' in a quieter, dreamier sort of way.
 But heart-stopping film events like that have been popping up every few weeks this year. 
 Or at least it felt that way if you were willing to close your eyes and take a ride with Hollywood's marketing mavens and those who help them along in the media, old and new.
 (Yes, yours truly has sometimes played the game. Many film writers have.)
 It's all great fun -- and, in the heat of the moment, can seem tantalizingly real. Remember the high-heeled stampede toward ''Sex and the City''? What a romp! Cosmopolitans. Bus tours. Girls' nights out. 
 Eventually, about 22 million tickets were sold. That puts it on a par with ''Steel Magnolias'' in 1989 or ''The First Wives Club'' in 1996 -- movies that played to about the same number of viewers, but did so with considerably less noise.
 Even this year's really big one, ''The Dark Knight,'' was never quite as big as it felt. Clear away the urgent reports about 6 a.m. screenings and Imax-size demand, and you are left, according to an always-sobering tally kept by the Box Office Mojo Web site, at
 boxofficemojo.com/alltime/adjusted.htm, with the 26th-most-popular movie of all time, in terms of tickets sold.
 Apparently, movie events that were once routine are now routinely treated as thrilling.
 Part of the reason is obvious: Those vast, exciting openings we all love have acquired a kind of false amplitude from ticket price inflation. A movie ticket in 2007 cost $6.88, on average (and at least 20 cents more in 2008), up nearly 47 percent from $4.69 in 1998. In general, the cost of consumer goods rose only about 27 percent in the same 10 years, according to a popular inflation calculator available on the Web at westegg.com/inflation/.
 Inevitably, the weekend box-office numbers loomed larger and larger, even as fewer people were going to see the pictures. 
 According to Media By Numbers, a consulting company that tracks such things, admissions to theaters -- adrift for years -- are now about 3 percent behind last year's count, even as box-office revenue is poised to top the $9.7 billion record set in 2007. 
 If inflation-soaked numbers consistently look exceptional -- with a $42 million opening weekend, even ''High School Musical 3: Senior Year'' began to feel like a blockbuster -- they have appeared to grow still more in the magnifying lens of the Internet.
 Who can resist the drama when box-office aficionados at Fandango.com, Movietickets.com, Boxofficeguru.com and Deadlinehollywooddaily.com start pumping up the volume, and building their own traffic, in the weeks before a movie like ''Twilight'' opens? 
 Before you know it, fans trample one another at a mall and make TMZ.com. Pretty soon, even The New York Times is staking out ''Twilight''-mania at a shopping center in suburban Philadelphia.
 All not to be scooped on a movie that so far has had about as many viewers as the dimly recalled angel romance ''Michael,'' from 1996. 
 (At the same time, the population has been growing, so a movie with the same number of viewers is actually drawing a smaller chunk of the market. If you were to count the percentage of Americans who actually watched in a theater, ''Twilight'' was probably closer to the performance of ''Congo,'' a jungle thriller from the year before.)
 Maybe everything looks a little bigger than it really is in these somewhat hysterical times.
 ''It's certainly easier to create a media event, if you have the right stars and get the right traction,'' said Howard Bragman, a Hollywood publicist who, with Michael Levin, has made a study of contemporary publicity in a book, ''Where's My Fifteen Minutes?,'' which was recently published by Portfolio Hardcover.
 The problem, Mr. Bragman said, ''is that there's shockingly little relationship between the publicity, i.e., the hype, and butts in seats.''
 In truth, a little exaggeration is probably good for the movie industry (though it does not do much for journalism). Studios need the excitement of seemingly enormous openings to juice waning DVD sales while they wait for the next truly big thing -- a new distribution format that would let companies once again resell all those movies that have been peddled previously on broadcast television, cable, videocassettes and discs.
 Until that happens, though, it may be a good idea to keep an inflation calculator handy. Just so we don't start kidding ourselves about what is really going on here. 
 As colossal as it seemed back in May, ''Iron Man'' was no ''Twister.'' The 1996 tornado film, that year's No. 2, easily outsold the superhero, this year's second-biggest event, 55 million tickets to 45 million.
 And ''Turner & Hooch,'' from 1989, would have looked like a very big deal -- more than a third bigger in ticket sales than Disney's dog-movie-of-the-century ''Beverly Hills Chihuahua,'' actually -- if that sloppy old hound had slobbered on Tom Hanks in 2008. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fans in Westwood, Calif., flocked last month to the opening of ''Twilight,'' among the highly touted films this year. Noelle Buffam, below, displayed the title. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARIO ANZUONI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); FILM (90%); TICKET SALES (89%)

PERSON: ROBERT PATTINSON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



984 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1745 words

HEADLINE: Follow the Money

BYLINE: By MICHAEL HIRSH. 
Michael Hirsh is Newsweek's national economics correspondent and the author of ''At War With Ourselves: Why America Is Squandering Its Chance to Build a Better World.''

 BODY:
THE ASCENT OF MONEY
 A Financial History of the World
 By Niall Ferguson
 Illustrated. 442 pp. The Penguin Press. $29.95
 Niall Ferguson, it is fair to say, is a one-man book factory. In fact, if the American economy cranked out goods as prolifically as Ferguson does histories, we might not be in half the fix we are in right now. But then Ferguson wouldn't have nearly as much to write about. The onetime enfant terrible of the Oxbridge historical establishment, Ferguson specializes in finding fault with great powers, especially the way they mismanage their empires. Ferguson first came to notice a decade ago with ''The Pity of War,'' a revisionist tour de force arguing that Britain made a world-historical error by entering World War I (and thereby destroying its empire) when it should have simply waited out the swift German conquest of Europe and remained a superpower, with Europe the better for it. 
More recently the Scottish-born Ferguson, who now spends half the year teaching at Harvard and the other half at Oxford, has turned his attention to the prodigal young heir to the British imperial crown, the United States. In ''The Cash Nexus'' (2001) and ''Colossus'' (2004), he urged Americans to emerge from their self-denial and fulfill their obvious destiny as the next ''liberal'' empire spreading the light of democracy and Anglo-Saxon legalism across the globe. ''The greatest disappointment facing the world in the 21st century,'' Ferguson concluded in ''The Cash Nexus'' (published in the opening months of the Bush presidency), is that ''the leaders of the one state with the economic resources to make the world a better place lack the guts to do it.'' Ferguson later supported the Iraq war as evidence that Washington had finally gotten up its courage, imperially speaking. 
 Whatever one thinks of his arguments, it's impossible to ignore Niall Ferguson. He's like the brightest kid in the debating club, the one who pulls all-nighters in the library and ferrets out facts no one thought to uncover. And in his latest book, ''The Ascent of Money'' -- humbly subtitled ''A Financial History of the World'' -- Ferguson takes us on an often enlightening and enjoyable spelunking tour through the underside of great events, a lesson in how the most successful great powers have always been underpinned by smart money. ''The ascent of money has been essential to the ascent of man,'' he writes, making a conscious reference to the BBC production he loved as a boy, Jacob Bronowski's ''Ascent of Man.'' (In fact, like Ferguson's three previous books, ''Colossus,'' ''Empire'' and ''The War of the World,'' ''The Ascent of Money'' was written as a companion to a TV documentary series.) 
 ''Behind each great historical phenomenon there lies a financial secret,'' Ferguson says. He goes into fascinating detail about how ''it was Nathan Rothschild as much as the Duke of Wellington who defeated Napoleon at Waterloo'' by selling bonds and stockpiling gold for the British Army. The richest bankers on the Continent in the 19th century, the Rothschilds became known as die Finanzbonaparten (the Bonapartes of finance). And, as Ferguson argues, they also played a crucial part in the South's defeat in the Civil War by declining to invest in Confederate cotton-collateralized bonds. Imperial Spain amassed vast amounts of bullion from the New World, but it faded as a power while the British and Dutch empires prospered because they had sophisticated banking systems and Spain did not. Similarly, the French Revolution was made all but inevitable by the machinations of an unscrupulous Scotsman named John Law, whom the deeply indebted French monarchy recklessly placed in charge of public finance. ''It was as if one man was simultaneously running all 500 of the top U.S. corporations, the U.S. Treasury and the Federal Reserve System,'' Ferguson writes. Law proceeded to single-handedly create the subprime mortgage bubble of his day. When it collapsed, the fallout ''fatally set back France's financial development, putting Frenchmen off paper money and stock markets for generations.'' Wilhelmine Germany, meanwhile, came up short in World War I because it ''did not have access to the international bond market,'' Ferguson writes. Every one of these episodes sounds like a warning shot: Will America be the next great power to fall because of unsound finance? 
 The question is particularly pressing in the midst of what is widely seen as the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. And Ferguson's conclusions are troubling. Only a few years after accusing Washington of ''imperial understretch'' for failing to flex its muscles -- and without any hint of irony -- Ferguson now argues that the United States may be succumbing to financial overstretch. Deeply in debt to the rest of the world, it has become part of a ''dual country'' that he calls ''Chimerica.'' ''In effect, the People's Republic of China has become banker to the United States of America,'' he writes. Until the current global financial crisis, this seemed to be a fairly reliable relationship. American consumers over-bought goods and over-borrowed from China, and the Chinese in turn accumulated huge dollar surpluses that they plowed back into Wall Street investments, thereby supplying profligate Americans with the financing we needed to consume and sustain ourselves as the lone superpower. ''For a time it seemed like a marriage made in heaven,'' Ferguson writes. ''The East Chimericans did the saving. The West Chimericans did the spending.'' 
 Suddenly, however, it's looking more like a marriage made in hell. According to Ferguson, much of the current crisis stems from this increasingly uneasy symbiosis. It turns out ''there was a catch. The more China was willing to lend to the United States, the more Americans were willing to borrow.'' This cascade of easy money, he argues, ''was the underlying cause of the surge in bank lending, bond issuance and new derivative contracts that Planet Finance witnessed after 2000. . . . And Chimerica -- or the Asian 'savings glut,' as Ben Bernanke called it -- was the underlying reason why the U.S. mortgage market was so awash with cash in 2006 that you could get a 100 percent mortgage with no income, no job or assets.'' Going forward, the system seems likely to be increasingly unstable, as Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson suggested recently when he warned that unless fundamental changes are made, ''the pressure from global imbalances will simply build up again until it finds another outlet.'' 
 Previous periods of global stability and peace had relied on judicious mechanisms like the Congress of Vienna or the Bretton Woods agreements. Now the international system -- and America's position within it -- has come to depend on what looks more like a global Rube Goldberg machine running on hot money. And though Ferguson doesn't come out and say it, the Chinese may now have the upper hand in this chimerical Chimerica. While so far it's worked in Beijing's interest to underwrite America's rampant consumerism -- because we buy so many of their goods -- the Chinese also have the option of recycling some of their surplus billions into their own huge population. We, on the other hand, don't have the option not to borrow from them. Indeed, it's no secret on Wall Street and in Washington that the real targets of President Bush's $700 billion bailout plan were the foreign funds, including ''sovereign wealth funds,'' that keep America's financial system afloat. Unless these foreign financiers -- principally China and Japan -- get reassurance that the global financial system can function properly again, America's long period of growth and power may be coming to a close. 
 Perhaps, then, the conclusion should be that Americans need to flex our muscles less as an empire and fight a little harder for fiscal sobriety and balance in our foreign policy. To be fair, Ferguson was early in seeing that America's fiscal problems were serious. In ''Colossus,'' he warned presciently of America's increasing reliance on Chinese capital, although he argued then that we should be mainly worried about domestic entitlements like Medicare and Social Security -- indicating that he, like the Bush administration, seriously underestimated the ultimate cost of the Iraq war. 
 As with Ferguson's three previous documentary efforts, ''The Ascent of Money'' sometimes feels as if it were laid out like a shooting script. Ferguson will depart from an exegesis on the 17th century or the Great Depression to pop up in post-Katrina New Orleans or Memphis (for a report on bankruptcies), and we surmise it's to record another on-scener for PBS. The book, whose main text comprises a scant 360 pages (a light effort for Ferguson, especially considering the ambitious subtitle), is also reductionist at times. Is it really fair to say Chimerica is mainly at the root of our current problems? (A lack of oversight and regulation of the subprime mortgage market here at home had a lot to do with it as well.) China's backwardness between the 1700s and 1970s was largely due to its dearth of financial innovation, he suggests, but other historians have pointed equally to the absence of technological innovation of the kind that arose in Europe's close-quartered patchwork of states because of repeated wars. 
 And in the end, as Ferguson himself seems to acknowledge, the scope of the financial crisis that is plaguing the world today calls into question the book's premise -- that the ''trajectory'' of finance through history, while ''jagged and irregular,'' is ''unquestionably upwards.'' Our increasingly sophisticated finance clearly contains self-destructive tendencies, and its very complexity may have become our undoing. Ferguson wonders whether the cruel realities of biological evolution are the model for what is happening now. Contemplating the financial Armageddon that has devastated Wall Street and set back globalization, he asks: ''Are we on the brink of a 'great dying' in the financial world -- one of those mass extinctions of species that have occurred periodically, like the end-Cambrian extinction that killed off 90 percent of Earth's species, or the Cretaceous-Tertiary catastrophe that wiped out the dinosaurs?'' Here we thought we were making all this progress as a species, and suddenly we find our supposed innovations lumped with Tyrannosaurus rex. Doesn't sound like much of an ascent to me.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HEADS OF STATE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); IRAQ WAR (74%); WORLD WAR I (69%); CAVING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%)

TITLE: Ascent of Money, The (Book)>; Ascent of Money, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



985 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Road Stirs Up Debate, Even on Its Name

BYLINE: By SEAN D. HAMILL

DATELINE: PORT MATILDA, Pa. 

 BODY:
It has been called an economic engine, Bud Shuster's Rollercoaster and an enabler of suburban sprawl.
 Whatever one calls it, the final, 18-mile section of Interstate 99 that opened here last month in Central Pennsylvania -- connecting Interstate 80 and the Pennsylvania Turnpike, Interstate 76, for the first time -- was not built quickly, and it was not cheap.
 At $631 million, including $83 million to clean up toxic pyritic rock that was the result of a 35-million-year-old meteor impact, this section of I-99 was nearly twice as expensive as anticipated and took at least four years longer than expected to finish.
 Along the way, it seemingly had something for everyone to dislike: environmentalists were upset with its impact on wetlands, streams and wildlife; taxpayer watchdog groups thought it was too expensive and unjustified; and advocates for highway construction were upset by its name. 
 ''Here's a case of where you had a politician with a very personal goal of spending hundreds of millions of dollars in his district while the nation's infrastructure was crumbling,'' said Steve Ellis, vice president of Taxpayers for Common Sense, based in Washington, which has long cited I-99 as an example of pork barrel spending at its worst. 
 But that has not inspired any regrets from the man everyone credits with making it happen.
 ''Well, it's going to save lives and create jobs and certainly create more convenient traveling,'' said former Representative Bud Shuster, a Republican who was the chairman of the House Transportation Committee in 1995 when he won approval for the financing of the last section of I-99.
 ''It's going to be a boon to this region of the country,'' said Mr. Shuster, who left office in 2001. ''There's nothing mystical about this; this is what happens when you replace an antiquated roadway with a modern four-lane highway.''
 But Mr. Shuster did more than just secure financing.
 First, when he was told that the highway would officially be considered a ''spur'' connecting I-76 and I-80 and would have to be named something like Interstate 876 or Interstate 280, he resisted because, he said, it was not ''catchy.''
 So, reaching into his childhood memories of the old rickety street car, No. 99, that took people from his hometown of Glassport, Pa., to McKeesport, he wrote into law that it would be called I-99, believed to be the first time that was ever done.
 That violated the highway numbering protocol the federal government usually uses for Interstates, which requires north-south highway numbers to rise from lower in the west, like Interstate 5, to higher in the east, like Interstate 95.
 I-99, some 80 miles long, was originally an expansion of U.S. 220 that was begun in the early 1970s. The final section had long been considered too expensive and difficult to build. 
 More controversially, Mr. Shuster also included a rider in the bill intended to speed construction by letting it bypass federal environmental oversight.
 ''That was the worst part of it,'' said Larry Hagg, the president of a coalition of local environmental and sportsmen's groups that sued over the lack of such oversight. ''We might have avoided some of the problems if the federal government had been involved from the beginning.'' 
 Local officials say the improvements in safety and convenience are unquestioned, compared with the overburdened local two-lane roads that I-99 replaced.
 The stickier question is whether it will be the economic boon that Mr. Shuster had hoped for in a region that has been hit hard by the loss of industrial, mining and railroad jobs over the last 50 years or more.
 ''We haven't seen a lot of it happening,'' said Bob Jacobs, director of the Planning and Community Development Office of Centre County, through which I-99 passes. ''But it could increase commercial and industrial development; we just don't know when.''
 John F. Coleman Jr., president of the Chamber of Business and Industry of Centre County, said at least one proposed development, the Benner Commerce Park, was a direct result of the highway.
 Centre County is better off than much of the region thanks to the presence of Pennsylvania State University, but little of that has spread to surrounding counties, which have been losing population while Centre has grown.
 Many believe I-99 could change that, but not necessarily with good results.
 ''This highway spur will probably spawn a series of bedroom communities all along these interchanges,'' said Gary Thornbloom, chairman of the local Moshannon Sierra Club, which is concerned about sprawl. 
 The coalition of sportsmen and environmentalists opposed the I-99 route, which goes up and over Skytop Mountain, just north of Port Matilda. It wanted the highway to cut through the valley 900 feet below, where it would have had less of an environmental impact.
 By deciding to go over the mountain, the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation cut into an acidic pyrite rock formation. The department had anticipated that, but its studies had failed to accurately calculate how much pyrite there was, and how ''hot,'' or acidic, it was. 
 ''Initially, they just didn't grasp what they had on their hands,'' said Barry Scheetz, a civil engineering professor at Penn State who was later called in to study the rocks. Mr. Scheetz found that the formation, a result of the meteor that created the Chesapeake Bay, was so acidic that when exposed to air and water, the runoff had the pH level of battery acid.
 The state spent two years and $83 million digging up more than one million cubic yards of the pyrite-laden rock and created a lined landfill next to the highway, mixing a larger-than-normal amount of limestone in to neutralize it and then covering it over with more fill. 
 While the debate over I-99 continues, Dan Weaber, 49, who lives in Port Matilda and runs a tree removal business, has made up his mind. ''You used to not even be able to get through this intersection in less than 20 minutes,'' he said. ''Now it's easy. I think it's the best thing that ever happened here.''
 Mark Belinda, who bought the Port Matilda Hotel and Tavern here in 1993 in anticipation of the new highway, is not so sure.
 ''I think it's going to take longer for this corridor to bloom,'' said Mr. Belinda, 47, who was still trying to figure out if it would help or hurt his business. ''It took so long to get done, I think investors took their money elsewhere. But I'm still hopeful.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Interstate 99, which links Interstates 80 and 76
its final, costly, section opened last month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Former Representative Bud Shuster, backer of the project. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMY TOENSING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: I-99's number is out of order in the Interstate system. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (90%); SUBURBS (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (71%); APPROVALS (69%); WETLANDS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (68%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



986 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; JERSEY NEW BRUNSWICK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Club That's More Like a Family

BYLINE: By KEVIN COYNE. 
E-mail: jersey@nytimes.com

DATELINE: New Brunswick 

 BODY:
 THE holiday guests sat around an impromptu dining table in the living room like a family too large and unwieldy to fit within the house's usual boundaries, their heads bowed for grace. The stained-glass windows that framed the fireplace softened the midday winter glare.
 ''I think we should ask God's blessing on what we have here together,'' Jack Gardner said, underlining the ''together,'' because what was most important here today, more than the roast beef and lasagna heaped on the plates, was that nobody was alone.
 The world spins so fast as the end of each year nears that it's easy to lose your footing, even if you're planted firmly in your own life, anchored by family and friends through the holiday swirl. It's far easier when you're planted more uncertainly, unless you can find some company in a place like this. 
 As the brief prayer ended and the two dozen guests set to their meals, a small milestone was reached: The first-ever holiday luncheon had officially begun at Laurel House, the first facility of its kind in New Jersey for those living with serious and persistent mental illness. It opened in October in this old Sears kit house after several years of lobbying and fund-raising by a handful of parents like Mr. Gardner, who had seen what didn't work for their adult children, and wanted to try something new.
 ''He's been through the system, and the system has worked him over pretty good,'' said Mr. Gardner, 71, of Piscataway, whose only child, Jeremy, 37, was given a diagnosis of schizophrenia as a teenager. ''And for that reason we felt that maybe another approach was going to help him out.''
 The other approach is to try to find jobs for people who are often presumed to be unemployable, to provide them with a place like this -- a clubhouse, they call it -- in which to band together before launching their missions into the wider world. ''They want to lead productive lives, and they want not to be a burden to society,'' said Tom Malamud, 70, of Glen Ridge, who became the executive director of Laurel House after working for 42 years at Fountain House in Manhattan, the first of what has grown into an international network of more than 300 clubhouses. 
 As the meal ended, and Christmas music played softly in the background, Andy Kane took compliments for the mushroom-and-cilantro quiche he had brought and stood at a computer in the front room printing out copies of the first edition of the clubhouse newsletter, for which he serves as editor. ''Just being here, my thinking's cleared up,'' said Mr. Kane, 37, a Rutgers graduate -- biology major, philosophy minor -- who had just finished his second year of medical school 13 years ago when he was diagnosed with bipolar disorder. ''Being around nice people, you realize people are good. And there's real structure here.''
 Mr. Kane comes to the clubhouse from his home in Edison each day it is open -- three days a week now, but five days soon -- and has been contemplating a possible job. Returning to medicine is out (''too stressful with my condition,'' he said), but he has taken up yoga and would like to learn how to teach it. ''I'm doing pretty good now,'' he said.
 Tony Rizzolo looked out the window onto the snow-crusted yard and was relieved he had managed to rake all the leaves into the gutter for collection before they were frozen in place for the winter. The dozen current members do the work that keeps the clubhouse running, under the supervision of Mr. Malamud and his assistant. ''Hundreds of pounds of them,'' Mr. Rizzolo said of the leaves that covered the yard where they hope to have a garden, a volleyball net and a patio come spring. ''There are a lot of trees here.''
 Mr. Rizzolo, 51, used to climb tall power transmission towers as an apprentice lineman (''You can see my work over the turnpike,'' he said) before he was hospitalized in his 20s for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. He doesn't see much of his family; nor does his wife, Liz, who is also a member here. They met when he drove a van for a program she attended, married three years ago and live together in North Brunswick. 
 ''We're alone,'' said Mr. Rizzolo, who often cooks lunch for the members here. ''This has been my new adoption, so to speak.''
 The founders of Laurel House managed to raise $250,000 from the Middlesex County Freeholders, private foundations and donors to get it started and keep it running through 2009, but to stay open beyond that -- and to expand to other counties, as they would like -- they need state financing. ''We can't just keep groveling every year and hoping someone will take pity on us,'' said Annette Mayo, 76, who led the fund drive, and whose daughter, Laura, 50, is a member. 
 New Jersey has traditionally concentrated its mental health money on housing and medical care, not on programs like Laurel House, according to board members. ''We gave them decent housing, but we didn't give them hope, and they vegetated,'' said another founder, Jackson Toby, 83, a retired sociology professor at Rutgers.
 Mr. Toby was sitting in a corner of the living room with Mr. Gardner, a poignant pairing of two fathers whose children were absent. Mr. Gardner's son was at Trenton Psychiatric Hospital. ''Next Christmas, if Jeremy could celebrate it with us, that would be wonderful,'' Mr. Gardner said. ''This is an important piece of what he would be doing when he comes out.''
 Mr. Toby's daughter, Gail -- an Oberlin College graduate and an accomplished rock climber -- committed suicide four years ago, a few weeks before her 50th birthday. ''I'm very eager to get people when they're young, before they've given up hope,'' Mr. Toby said.
 Standing by the fireplace was a member who hasn't, Sumona Awasty, 44, showing the framed piece of needlework on the mantel: a cross-stitch she did of a snow-covered Victorian street, with a horse-drawn carriage, men in top hats and women in bustles. It is a winter scene, and she thought it was too dark, so she added some bright gold paint that wasn't in the original design. ''This is the light coming out of it,'' she said, pointing to the rays radiating from the street lamp, and then she moved her finger up to the corner of the night sky where a gold disk hung. ''And this is the sun.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GRACE NOTE: Jack Gardner, second from right, whose adult son has schizophrenia, offering a prayer at the first holiday luncheon of Laurel House in New Brunswick.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ON RECORD: Tom Malamud, Laurel House's director, takes video.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. NJ2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (78%); FUNDRAISING (70%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (65%); MENTAL ILLNESS (65%); MUSIC (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



987 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: Housing Inventories on the Rise

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
ON the eve of a new year, it is becoming clear that the real estate market in Hudson County, the ''Gold Coast'' zone just across the river from Manhattan, will have to wait at least two years to celebrate a more prosperous era.
 Once New Jersey's hottest market for high-end condominiums -- drawing streams of Manhattanites -- Hudson now finds itself with 24.1 months' worth of unsold inventory.
 This is a much bigger backlog than exists in Brooklyn, which has a 13.8-month supply, and it exceeds unsold inventory levels in Queens; in Orange, Rockland and Westchester counties in New York; and in Fairfield County in Connecticut.
 On Long Island, the unsold inventory is also swollen. It would take 20.9 months for all the houses and condos currently on the market there to find buyers, given the current pace of sales. 
 A new assessment of the region prepared by the Otteau Valuation Group presents a generally unlovely picture of residential sales markets:
 Manhattan now has an 11.8-month supply of unsold inventory, said Jeffrey G. Otteau, whose Old Bridge, N.J., company analyzes contract sales figures and advises real estate brokers. ''This is not terribly big,'' he said, ''but it is significantly bigger than a year ago -- and much bigger than the days when multiple bidders were circling around every available unit on the market.''
 There are a few other areas encircling Manhattan that also maintain what might be described as less-than-albatross-sized inventories, including:
 Passaic County in New Jersey, home to the large suburban communities of Clifton and Wayne, which has a 12.9-month supply of housing on the market;
 Union County, N.J., home to Elizabeth, Summit and Westfield, which has a 13.8-month supply; 
 Morris County, N.J., an area with 150 towns, including Mendham, Morristown and Mountain Lakes, which has a 14.1-month supply.
 Across New Jersey last month, the pace of sales fell 30 percent below the same month in 2007. In October, the drop was 28 percent.
 Before that, according to various market reports, there had been a brief, sharp uptick around the region, ascribed to lower mortgage rates and asking prices. But Mr. Otteau's numbers clearly indicate that once the banking crisis, job losses and bailouts began in October, sales fell and inventories rose. 
 In Hudson County, home to Hoboken and Jersey City -- an area known as ''Wall Street West'' -- sales were 26 percent fewer in November than the month before, and 47 percent fewer than in November 2007. 
 Looking further ahead, Mr. Otteau has recently raised the issue of potential overbuilding in Hudson County -- in addition to his contention that outer-ring suburbs already have a surfeit of single-family housing on large lots that will not appeal to buyers of the next decade.
 One large developer in Hoboken, the Applied Development Company, stopped building anything other than rentals as of nearly two years ago, said its president, David Barry. ''We saw the condo market getting ahead of itself, and becoming temporarily overbuilt, for sure,'' he said.
 But of the rentals that Applied is moving ahead with, several developments are in Hudson County. ''We just started on 225 Grand, a 348-unit rental in Jersey City,'' Mr. Barry said, ''and we're preparing to start with the Berkshire, 93 rental units, at the Shipyard.'' The Shipyard is an Applied rental/condo complex on the Hudson in Hoboken.
 ''It will be about two years before these come online,'' he said, ''and when the economy does turn around, my experience is that the first market to benefit from that is the apartment market. As jobs are added, the first thing that happens is many people go out and rent an apartment.''
 Land costs have become ''more reasonable lately,'' Mr. Barry added; as a developer, he is seeking to capitalize on ''an opportune time to get in the ground with apartments.''
 Condominium developments that have already posted strong numbers of sales contracts -- like the Trump Plaza Jersey City -- will most likely continue to sell units during this ''off time,'' he said, but starting new condo construction at this point is ''plain crazy.'' 
 As for the ''suburban sprawl'' single-family-home developments that New Jersey policymakers have long been trying to rein in, Mr. Otteau predicts the market will only worsen. 
 Sales pace is slack in the northwestern part of the state, where large-lot single-family development prevails. The inventory backlog is 23.6 months in Sussex County, 21.6 months in Warren County and 16 percent in Hunterdon County, according to the Otteau numbers.
 In the more urbanized northeastern New Jersey counties of Bergen and Essex, the residential backlog approaches 16 months. 
 Likewise, in New York State, the inventory in outlying boroughs and counties is very large compared with that of Manhattan and Brooklyn. Westchester County has the next-largest inventory to Long Island, at 18 months. Orange County's inventory is nearly 18 months, and Rockland's is 14.5. Mr. Otteau foresees a ''structural shift'' in housing demand that will come into sharper focus in the region when the overall market improves.
 ''Right now we are all focusing on how bad it is,'' he said, ''but what we are also seeing is a historic reversal of home-buying demand away from suburban and rural areas to cities and inner-ring suburbs that are more walkable than driveable.''
 Mr. Otteau says the shift was partly because of higher energy prices. But the dominant reason is that the number of households with children living at home is on a persistent decline. 
 ''In 1985,'' he said, ''50 percent of households had children at home. In 2000, that was down to 33 percent. Today it is 29 percent, headed to 25 percent.
 ''That means that 75 percent of home buyers over the next 15 years will have childless households -- and within that group are empty-nester baby-boomers, or couples or singles buying a first house. And that means that three out of four home buyers will have no interest in a house in the suburbs with a good school system, which is pretty much what we've created over the last 50 years.'' 
 Mr. Otteau cited a new study from Virginia Tech projecting that a nationwide surplus of 22 million suburban homes on lots larger than a sixth of an acre will be languishing on the market by 2025.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: BACKLOG: The number of months it would take to sell the houses on the market in each area. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); INVENTORIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); HOME PRICES (76%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); LAKES (72%); SUBURBS (68%); MOUNTAINS (62%); BAILOUTS (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); BANK FAILURES (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



988 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Low-Cost Options on High-End Tours

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
WITH cost-conscious guests increasingly unwilling to pay for premium wine tastings, private eco-hikes and five-star hotels, tour operators are starting to offer cheaper, recession-era versions of popular vacation packages to entice penny-pinching travelers. 
 Take Classic Journeys, an upscale travel company based in La Jolla, Calif., that normally puts customers up in luxury hotels like the Jasper Park Lodge, a Fairmont resort in the Canadian Rockies. In 2009, for the first time, the company is introducing camping trips for about $700 less than itineraries that include hotel stays. While the tours are designed to be deluxe family affairs (think Egyptian cotton sheets, stemmed wine glasses and chefs who do the cooking), guests must share bathrooms and sleep on air mattresses. 
 But the savings, said Edward Piegza, president of Classic Journeys, is ''likely enough to pay for their airline tickets to the Canadian Rockies from La Guardia.''
 Insight Vacations, which offers trips throughout Europe, North America and the eastern Mediterranean, has added eight 2009 itineraries to its European Essentials tours -- which cater to budget-minded travelers -- at a saving of 20 percent or more compared with the company's premium tours. But travelers must be willing to sacrifice some conveniences for the lower cost.
 For example, the Essentials Spanish Fantasy tour visits the same five cities in Spain in 11 days as its premium Highlights of Spain tour, but it costs $1,550 instead of $2,065. The cheaper trip has a half-dozen fewer guided excursions and hotels are typically outside the city like the Abba Garden Hotel, nearly four miles from Barcelona, as opposed to the centrally located Melia on the premium trip.
 ''As the U.S. economy began to slow, we realized we needed to be more competitive in the U.S. marketplace and offer tours that appealed to travelers willing to go to Europe but didn't have a lot of money to spend,'' said Brittny Anselmo, director of marketing and communications for Insights Vacations. 
 Besides being cheaper, the more bare-bones tours may appeal to independent travelers who enjoy the ease and security of group travel but also want the freedom to explore destinations without a guide, since travelers can choose to visit additional museums on their own. 
 Trafalgar Tours, a large tour operator with more than 300 itineraries, offers its own group of trips for budget-minded travelers, called the CostSaver Way, which are priced at about $800 less a person than its other trips, but include less guided sightseeing and use hotels in the suburbs or outside main tourist areas. The company has added three CostSaver family trips to its roster for 2009 -- a 15-day tour of Europe from $2,250 a person, a 13-day tour of Italy from $2,175 and a 15-day trip through England, Wales and Scotland from $2,050 a person. 
 For travelers who want to spend less but still want to be at the center of things, General Tours World Traveler, an upscale company based in Keene, N.H., is offering a collection of Best Buy vacations for the first time this year. These cost less than its other tours because travelers stay in more moderate hotels that are still centrally situated. ''Location is something we don't compromise on,'' said Mickey Huang, General Tours' marketing manager. For example, its new seven-day Kremlin and Hermitage tour stays at cheaper hotels like the Marriott Tverskaya in Moscow near Red Square and the Kremlin and costs $2,899. By comparison, its premium Discover Moscow & St. Petersburg tour, which goes to top hotels like the Kempinski in Moscow, costs $3,399. 
 The modified tours are appealing to travelers like Cathy Maywood, a physician from San Diego. Dr. Maywood, her husband, Mike, and her 14-year-old son, Cameron, went to Machu Picchu in Peru with Classic Journeys last spring, and they stayed in a converted 16th-century monastery in Cuzco before taking a train toward the ruins. This year, the family is instead thinking about going camping with Classic Journeys for their summer vacation. 
 ''The main reason is the price,'' said Dr. Maywood, adding that she was also drawn to the idea of high-end camping, with its plush tents, assistants who carry camping gear and chefs who prepare meals. ''If I had to do all those things, I wouldn't go camping,'' she said. 
 Other tour operators are shortening trips and offering more flexibility. Go Ahead Tours, an escorted tour operator from Cambridge, Mass., which normally runs 12- to 18-day trips, is now offering 8- to 10-day trips to places like Italy, Greece and China that are as much as $900 less. It also used to include airfare in its brochure pricing, but as more people have opted to use frequent flier miles to save money, the company decided to exclude it.
 Abercrombie & Kent, a luxury tour operator that owns and operates luxury camps and lodges in remote destinations, has split some of its tours into shorter, less expensive trips concentrating on one region. Instead of the 14-day Highlights of East Africa trip, which costs $6,375, for example, customers can choose the Highlights of Kenya or Highlights of Tanzania trip, which last 10 days and are about $4,500 each. 
 Single travelers, normally hit with single supplement fees to make up for the difference in price charged to two travelers sharing a room, can expect a more welcome reception by groups next year. To encourage bookings, travel companies like African Travel Inc. and Overseas Adventure Travel are waiving the fees for 2009 across a wide variety of trips from African safaris to Amazon River cruises. The savings can be significant, with single supplements normally priced anywhere from $250 to $2,000, depending on the trip. Book by Feb. 16 for the Overseas Adventure Travel offer.
 Meanwhile, as travelers search for more affordable vacation options, budget-oriented tour operators like the Australian-based Intrepid Travel, which keeps tour costs down by using public transportation, staying in guesthouses run by locals and camping, have been seeing a surge in business.
 ''Whenever there's a blip in the economy, we do well,'' said Darrell Wade, chief executive of Intrepid Travel. In October, when most high-end tour operators were reporting declines in bookings, his company was up about 10 percent, he said. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JULIA KUO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); TOUR OPERATORS (91%); WINE (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); TOUR PACKAGES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); BUDGETS (89%); SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (89%); HIKING (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BEVERAGE PRICES (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); FAMILY TRAVEL (78%); CAMPING (72%); TRAVEL TICKETS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (88%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (92%); EUROPE (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ENGLAND (75%); MEDITERRANEAN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



989 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 270 words

HEADLINE: The Week Ahead Dec. 28 - Jan. 3 Theater

BYLINE: By Steven McElroy

 BODY:
Theater
 Steven McElroy
 What with the horrific economy, 2008 sure looks like a year we are better off leaving behind. Even loyal theater investors are so skittish that they're putting their money in Treasury bills instead of Broadway shows. With the future of Midtown stages so uncertain, it seems the right time to visit 21 Clinton Street on the Lower East Side for a reminder that theater people have a long history of belligerent survival. 
 That's where you can find THE LIVING THEATER's 50th anniversary production of Jack Gelber's ''CONNECTION,'' directed by the company's artistic director, Judith Malina, a co-founder of the group (with Julian Beck, her husband, who died in 1985). Ms. Malina, 82, has weathered the deaths of two husbands, a forced closing of her theater because of tax troubles and more than one trip to jail for acts connected to her leftist-pacifist-anarchist views, but she remains an unyielding force in political theater. In September she was honored for lifetime achievement at the New York Innovative Theater Awards. 
 When it opened, ''The Connection,'' a hyper-naturalistic tale about heroin addicts waiting for their dealer, did not impress the New York Times critic Louis Calta, who called it a ''farrago of dirt.'' Others, including Harold Clurman and Robert Brustein, described the show -- also noted for its inclusion of live jazz music -- as a seminal work that shattered barriers between actors and audience. And the company, after more than 50 years, remains a fearless role model for the skittish. Previews begin Wednesday, opens Jan. 8, (212) 352-3101, livingtheatre.org; $30.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (90%); THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); THEATER & DRAMA (79%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (79%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); HEROIN (66%); JAZZ & BLUES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



990 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: A Cliffhanger of a Listing

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
COULD the ghost of the luxury real estate market yet to come, as Dickens might have put it, already be here, gravely hovering above the 20-foot-high glass walls of a gutted penthouse atop the Trump International Hotel and Tower in Columbus Circle?
 With many of the largest hedge fund fortunes sagging, and many a millionaire bereft after the Bernard Madoff scandal, the idea that the hooded figure of foreclosure and bankruptcy could be pointing a finger at some of the most expensive real estate in the world, rather than subprime suburban ranch houses, suddenly seems plausible. 
 Last week came word that the Italian film producer Vittorio Cecchi Gori had put his 5,500-square-foot penthouse, with a 50-foot-wide glass-walled living room, on the market for $28.5 million. 
 The appearance of a luxury listing in the week before Christmas is unusual. And a peek at state and federal court records showed that the property, at 1 Central Park West, was in the midst of what may end up as the biggest residential apartment foreclosure sale in Manhattan in recent memory. 
 The records show that at the end of October, Justice Joan A. Madden of State Supreme Court in Manhattan granted a foreclosure judgment against Mr. Cecchi Gori, in connection with $14 million in a secured mortgage on the apartment, as well as additional debts to the same lender, a subsidiary of the Fortress Investment Group, totaling as much as $30 million.
 But after the justice's ruling -- and before a referee was appointed to oversee the sale -- the corporation set up by Mr. Cecchi Gori to buy the house filed for bankruptcy in federal court in Manhattan. 
 The bankruptcy court allowed Mr. Cecchi Gori to hire Howard Margolis, an agent at Prudential Douglas Elliman, to market the property and try to get a higher price than could be obtained at auction. (The proposed listing agreement, included in the court record, calls for a 5 percent commission for Mr. Margolis if the place is sold in conjunction with a co-broker, and 4 percent if sold without one.)
 The problems of Mr. Cecchi Gori, who produced more than 200 Italian films, including ''Il Postino'' and ''Life Is Beautiful,'' both of which won Oscars, began long before the economic downturn. But brokers said they could be a harbinger of trouble. 
 Mr. Cecchi Gori is facing the potential loss of two other houses, according to New York court records: a penthouse in Fountain House, an apartment building in London facing Hyde Park with a value of about $14 million, and an 8,400-square-foot single-family house on Robert Lane in Beverly Hills worth about $8 million in 2006. 
 While the New York foreclosure case was pending this spring, Mr. Cecchi Gori was jailed by Italian authorities and held for four months in connection with an investigation into an Italian bankruptcy filing. In October after his release, he assailed the Italian criminal justice system and proclaimed his innocence.
 Mr. Cecchi Gori bought the Columbus Circle penthouse from Donald Trump for $10.4 million in 1998, a few months before the United States release of ''Life Is Beautiful,'' a Roberto Benigni film that won three Academy Awards, including best actor for Mr. Benigni and best foreign film.
 Mr. Trump had paid $5.1 million for the five-bedroom apartment in 1997 and had announced plans to move in. But after a split with his second wife, Marla Maples, he offered it for rent at what was then the extraordinary sum of $100,000 a month. Six months later, Mr. Cecchi Gori bought it.
 Building records show that in 2001, Mr. Cecchi Gori demolished the interior of the apartment, tearing out walls, the steam showers and the salmon-colored marble slabs installed in the hallways by Mr. Trump. Although he obtained a permit to rebuild a few months later, the work was never done, and the interior is still unfinished. 
 As his financial problems worsened, Mr. Cecchi Gori stopped paying his condominium charges, and according to the filing, he owes more than $62,000 to the condo board and $69,000 in back taxes.
 Mr. Margolis said that within a matter of days, the apartment received at least two offers. ''There have been people waiting for this apartment,'' he said. ''As soon as I put it on the Web there were calls. It is really spectacular, it is a matter of who wants to go in and purchase it.''
 But the asking price, $5,180 a square foot, is about 20 percent more than the most expensive high-floor apartment sold in that building when the market was strong. Mr. Margolis declined to disclose the offering prices so far.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 1 Central Park West (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); AUCTIONS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); SCANDALS (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (67%); APPOINTMENTS (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: FORTRESS INVESTMENT GROUP LLC (54%); DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (53%)

TICKER: FIG (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



991 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS TRANSITIONS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: An Emissions Plan Conservatives Could Warm To

BYLINE: By BOB INGLIS and ARTHUR B. LAFFER. 
Bob Inglis is a Republican representative from South Carolina. Arthur B. Laffer was a member of President Ronald Reagan's Economic Policy Advisory Board from 1981 to 1989.

 BODY:
CONSERVATIVES don't support tax increases that are veiled as ''cap and trade'' schemes for pollution permits. But offer us a tax swap, and we could become the new administration's best allies on climate change. 
 A climate-change bill withered in Congress this summer because families don't need an enormous, and hidden, tax increase. If the bill's authors had instead proposed a simple carbon tax coupled with an equal, offsetting reduction in income taxes or payroll taxes, a dynamic new energy security policy could have taken root. 
 Even if the United States extracts more of its own oil -- something it needs to do -- it will still have only 3 percent of the world's known oil reserves, and OPEC will still be the cartel with 70 percent of the world's known oil reserves. Conventional discoveries and unconventional extractions (like shale oil) would improve our standing somewhat, but OPEC's easily extracted oil makes its members the undisputed kings of crude. 
 If they're the kings, we're the vassals. As long as national security risks aren't factored into the cost of gasoline and as long as carbon dioxide can be emitted without penalty, oil will continue to have an advantage over emerging fuels in the marketplace, and we'll continue our ruinous addiction to it. 
 We need to impose a tax on the thing we want less of (carbon dioxide) and reduce taxes on the things we want more of (income and jobs). A carbon tax would attach the national security and environmental costs to carbon-based fuels like oil, causing the market to recognize the price of these negative externalities. 
 Nuclear power plants would then compete with coal-fired plants. Wind and solar power would have a shot against natural gas. Trains would compete with trucks. We would clean the air, create wealth and jobs through a new technology boom and drastically improve our national security.
 The market-driven innovation that brought us the Internet and the personal computer could quickly bring us new, cleaner fuels. A carbon tax that was fully offset (with payroll or income taxes cut by a dollar amount equal to the revenues generated by the new tax) would be as bold as the threat that we face. 
 Conservatives do not have to agree that humans are causing climate change to recognize a sensible energy solution. All we need to assume is that burning less fossil fuels would be a good thing. Based on the current scientific consensus and the potential environmental benefits, it's prudent to do what we can to reduce global carbon emissions. When you add the national security concerns, reducing our reliance on fossil fuels becomes a no-brainer.
 Yet the costs of reducing carbon emissions are not trivial. Climate change may be a serious problem, but a higher overall tax rate would devastate the long-term growth of America and the world. 
 It is essential, therefore, that any taxes on carbon emissions be accompanied by equal, pro-growth tax cuts. A carbon tax that isn't accompanied by a reduction in other taxes is a nonstarter. Fiscal conservatives would gladly trade a carbon tax for a reduction in payroll or income taxes, but we can't go along with an overall tax increase.
 The good news is that both Democrats and Republicans could support a carbon tax offset by a payroll or income tax cut. Former Vice President Al Gore has argued for eliminating all payroll taxes and replacing them with ''pollution taxes.'' He said in a speech at New York University's law school two years ago: ''It would be, in other words, a revenue-neutral tax swap. But, instead of discouraging businesses from hiring more employees, it would discourage business from producing more pollution.'' 
 The United States can't solve climate change alone. The Kyoto climate treaty was rightly rejected by the Senate because China and India weren't subject to its provisions. If China and India join the United States in attaching a price to carbon, their goods should come into this country without a carbon adjustment. But if they do not, every item they place on our shelves should be subject to the same carbon tax that we would place on our domestically produced goods, again offset by a revenue-neutral tax cut.
 If World Trade Organization rules entitle members to an unwarranted exemption from such a carbon tax, then we should change them. Outliers should not be allowed to frustrate the decision-making of the countries that are trying to prevent the security and environmental train wrecks of this century.
 As president, Barack Obama, by working with conservatives as well as the members of his own party, can at once clean the air, create jobs and improve the national security of the United States -- a triple play for the next American century. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEXANDRA FALAGARA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX INCREASES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); CARTELS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); CONSERVATISM (79%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); POWER PLANTS (75%); WIND ENERGY (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); INCOME TAX (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (75%); GASOLINE (74%); BIOFUELS (71%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (71%); SOLAR ENERGY (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (70%); CORPORATE TAX (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (66%); JOB CREATION (64%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



992 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: This Pendulum Has a Past

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IN bull markets, it's wise to guard against thinking that ''this time is different '' -- that stocks will keep rising forever. Sooner or later, the laws of economics reassert themselves. And it's wise to remember that major market declines follow some common patterns, too.
 Right now, it's tempting to think that this bear market is so unusual that history's lessons are of little use, and that the types of investments that are weakest now will keep dropping indefinitely. No two market environments are identical, of course, but there is plenty of precedent for the credit crisis of the last 18 months -- and for its profound effects on the stock and bond markets. 
 In fact, you can view the markets' behavior since mid-2007 as a textbook illustration of a statistical pattern uncovered years ago by two finance professors, Lubos Pastor of the University of Chicago and Robert F. Stambaugh of the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. They found that the financial markets are always vulnerable to what they called a liquidity shock -- a sudden tightening of credit. Aside from the current crisis, two recent examples are the market conditions during the market crash of October 1987 and the wake of the near-collapse of Long-Term Capital Management in the fall of 1998.
 Some types of securities -- high-yield, or junk, bonds, for example -- are usually more vulnerable than others in such an event. The most immune from liquidity problems are those for which there is always robust demand, so they can be sold anytime without pushing down their prices. As has become abundantly clear over the last 18 months, Treasury securities are a good illustration. At the other extreme are those securities that, without an abundant supply of available credit, become difficult if not impossible to sell at any price. 
 The professors' research was the focus of this column in August 2001, and their study appeared in the June 2003 issue of The Journal of Political Economy. According to Google Scholar, no fewer than 623 academic articles and studies now cite their study.
 This research provides a good template for understanding the last 18 months, according to Lasse Pedersen, a finance professor at New York University who has conducted a half-dozen studies in recent years into the market's reaction to liquidity crises. 
 In the current crisis, Professor Pedersen said in an e-mail message, ''securities with high liquidity risk have done very poorly,'' just as we should have expected. A good example is convertible bonds, which previous research found to be particularly vulnerable to liquidity shock.
 ''They have gotten killed,'' he wrote.
 Though the large body of research into liquidity shocks may offer little comfort to investors who've lost so much in the last 18 months, it is an antidote to the argument that history has nothing to teach about the current crisis. The research has found that when liquidity shocks occur, they are so intense that the securities most vulnerable to them predictably provide higher longer-term returns. This happens, Professor Pastor said in an interview, because these securities must compensate investors for the risk of big losses during those shocks.
 This doesn't mean that anyone can predict such shocks with certainty. Instead, according to Professor Pastor, there is a small but significant risk that one could happen at any time -- and that investors are deluding themselves if they don't take that risk into account. 
 Investors who despair that this credit crisis may never end may therefore be guilty of the mirror opposite of a mistake made earlier in this decade, when liquidity was plentiful. Just as many investors forgot several years ago that another liquidity crisis was destined to happen someday, many may now be forgetting that liquidity shocks don't last forever.
 WHICH securities will perform best after the current credit crisis, and which will fare worst? 
 According to the research, once a liquidity crisis passes, other factors come to the fore, and securities that have risen in price, like Treasury bonds, are then likely to perform poorly. By contrast, the best performers will be those securities that have lost the most during past credit crises -- not just during the current one. Convertible bonds and junk bonds are two obvious categories that should do particularly well, but others, including stocks, should also benefit. 
 If you can tolerate short-term volatility, you should consider such securities for the long term, Professor Pastor said, even if you're worried that the credit crisis has longer to run. That's because it is impossible to predict the exact end of the bear market, and because these investments should provide high-enough returns over the long term to make the risk worth taking. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); BONDS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (76%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



993 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Rubbernecking the Wreckage of 2008: Detroit, We Have a Problem

BYLINE: By JAMES G. COBB

 BODY:
WHEN Toyota, the auto industry's financial Godzilla, forecasts its first operating loss in 70 years, you know times are tough. When senators suggest that General Motors (of ''What's good for the country...'' fame) should be left to collapse, you know the ground has shifted.
Partly this is because many of us still nurse grudges over '79 Skylarks that stranded us and '86 Sables that wouldn't start. Partly it's because of decades-long resentment over automaker attempts to block safety, pollution and economy rules (which, it's often forgotten, foreign automakers usually opposed, too). 
But this year the industry has been battered by other factors. Gasoline marched toward $5 a gallon, then collapsed below $2, sending Prius sales into a tailspin. Credit markets froze; potential customers lost their jobs.
Next year may be worse, but when the perfect storm finally ends there will be better, more relevant cars to buy. Frugal clean diesels are coming to market, along with a flock of new hybrids. And two of the cars that impressed me the most this year, one that runs on diesel and one on hydrogen, suggest that the future may yet turn sunny.
Here are my favorites of 2008:
1. HONDA FCX CLARITY No, you can't buy one of these hydrogen fuel-cell cars (though if you live in Southern California, there's a slim chance you can lease one of about 200 available). But the FCX Clarity is notable for the fact that if hydrogen should suddenly become widely available at reasonable prices, Honda is ready to roll with a most agreeable car. The FCX Clarity is stylish, roomy, comfortable, whisper-quiet and, yes, pretty cool in a welcome-to-the-future sort of way.
2. BMW 123D The smaller, simpler 1 Series has become my favorite line of BMWs, and the winsome 128i convertible could easily have made my list. But a too-brief fling at the wheel of the diesel-powered 123d hatchback made me forget the gasoline version. The twin-turbo 4-cylinder produces rocketlike thrust, and the handling is close to sublime. The 123d's fuel economy approaches 50 m.p.g., proving convincingly that enthusiasts have no reason to dread the arrival of greener cars. On the down side, the 123d isn't sold in the United States, but it ought to be.
3. PONTIAC G8 An Australian-built sedan with American big-rump accommodations and European road manners, the G8 is the sort of well-rounded, rich-feeling, reasonably priced sedan that G.M. had long seemed incapable of building. Too bad the G8, like several other impressive new G.M. cars, may have landed too late to pull the company out of its deep financial hole.
4. HONDA FIT The genius of this second-generation subcompact is not that it's small or economical. It's that the Fit manages to feel spacious, comfortable and well-thought-out. I especially like the second-row seat that folds flat with one hand, headrests included, even when the front seats are all the way back -- a small detail that is seldom done right.
5. NISSAN GT-R Given all the hoopla over this supercoupe, a video-game superstar that Nissan never before imported to the United States, I was inclined to dismiss this overachiever as a bauble for boy racers. But a few minutes at the wheel won me over. Civil around town and a beast when unleashed, the GT-R is now on the short list of cars I'd like to own.
6. DODGE CHALLENGER SRT8 Another car that turned out much better than expected, the Challenger is bigger and more substantial than its namesake of the early 1970s, and its sharp handling makes the iconic originals feel like antiques.
7. FORD FLEX Even with a prosaic drivetrain -- fortunately, a promising new engine is coming -- the Flex feels fresh. Inside the big-block body, so boxy it's slick, there's a cavernous interior that shows attention to detail. Yes, the Flex is essentially a minivan, but that can be our little secret.
8. CHEVROLET TRAVERSE I've been a big fan of G.M.'s larger car-based crossovers like the GMC Acadia, and this new Chevy may be the best version yet. Although the styling and interior are more conventional than the Flex's, the Traverse's driving dynamics are superior.
9. VOLKSWAGEN CC Remember the Phaeton? Probably not, given that it, like VW's other attempts to go upscale, ended up as a historical footnote. But this fancy variation on the Passat, with a swoopy roofline, stylish interior and 280-horsepower VR6 engine, had me wondering if VW was trying to make the Audi A4, the CC's cousin, obsolete.
10. BMW M3 When I tested the M3, premium unleaded was selling for more than $4 a gallon and I felt guilty taking it up the street to Target. And, truth be told, 414-horsepower supercoupes probably don't have a bright future. But as much as I wanted to scorn the M3 -- for its thirst, for its price, for its electronic fussiness, for its unapologetic V-8 excess -- it won me over by providing a driving experience that puts most sub-$100,000 cars to shame.
Didn't Make the Cut
1. BMW X6 It has street presence, for sure, and it's powerful and expensive. But I still can't figure out what the high-riding hunchbacked X6 is supposed to be.
2. HONDA PILOT The original Pilot's carlike qualities added to its appeal. The new one tries to pretend it's a truck, including a blunt and homely new face, and right now trucks are damaged goods.3. INFINITI FX50 The original FX still turns my head, but the new one lacks its predecessor's athletic lines and lean demeanor. The FX now has more power, more features and more heft, but sometimes more is just too much.
4. CHEVROLET TAHOE HYBRID I'm not opposed to hybrids or better fuel economy, but a hybrid should make economic sense. G.M. is charging thousands of dollars more for the hybrid than for the regular Tahoe, meaning it will take a very, very long time to recoup your investment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HONDA FCX CLARITY: Ready when the hydrogen is. (pg.AU1)
 FORD FLEX: It may be more than a minivan with a pretty face. (pg.AU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); SEDANS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (75%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (75%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (74%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (71%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (67%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (91%); TM (NYSE) (91%); 7203 (TSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011



994 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: Sarah Keim, Mark Klebanoff

 BODY:
Sarah Ann Keim and Mark Arthur Klebanoff were married Saturday at Wauwatosa Avenue United Methodist Church in Wauwatosa, Wis. The Rev. Jan Beutin, a United Methodist minister, performed the ceremony. 
 The bride and the bridegroom are epidemiologists at the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development in Bethesda, Md., where she is also the associate director for operations and logistics for its National Children's Study.
 The bride, 33, graduated from the College of William & Mary and received two master's degrees from the University of Wisconsin, Madison, one in public affairs and administration and the other in land resources. She is also a candidate for a Ph.D. in epidemiology at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
 She is a daughter of Ann L. Keim of Madison and Dr. Christopher L. Keim of Fort Atkinson, Wis. Her father is a veterinarian and partner in Sunshine Genetics, a company in Whitewater, Wis., that breeds dairy cattle and markets their embryos for the purpose of improving dairy genetics. The bride's mother is a professor of family development at the University of Wisconsin-Extension in Madison.
 The bridegroom, 54, graduated from Johns Hopkins University, where he also received a medical degree and a master's in public health.
 He is the son of the late Gertrude Y. Klebanoff and the late Sam D. Klebanoff, who lived in Yonkers. His mother was a bookkeeper for Dellwood Dairy, a milk-bottling company there. His father was a claims examiner for the New York State Unemployment Insurance Division.
 The bridegroom's first marriage ended in divorce.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (77%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (77%); CHILDREN (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (83%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF CHILD HEALTH & HUMAN DEVELOPMENT (58%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (56%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



995 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; DISPATCHES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: For the Out of Work, an Outstretched Hand

BYLINE: By JAKE MOONEY

 BODY:
MAYBE you were a financial officer at a failing bank. Maybe you were on your boss's bad side and were the first to get picked for a layoff. Maybe you were one of the lucky few who made a small fortune in the mortgage-backed securities market, only to discover that your industry was, unluckily, dead. 
 If you have lost your job, especially the kind with a nice severance package, you might find yourself stepping into a wood-inlaid elevator at the Chrysler Building, stepping out at the 16th floor, and seeing the smiling face of someone like Jim Borland. Dr. Borland, 62, who has tousled graying hair and a shambling gait, is a social worker by training, but for the better part of three decades he has worked in what, in the industry, is called outplacement. 
 He is, in other words, a counselor to the unemployed, helping people who have recently lost jobs look for new ones by offering practical advice, coaching, hand-holding and encouragement.
 Business lately has been good. But really, business is always good, said Dr. Borland, who works part time for two companies and has a private practice in Manhattan and Staten Island. Companies are always changing directions and looking for new people. Nevertheless, Terry Ebert, the managing director of the Ayers Group, the company in the Chrysler Building where Dr. Borland spends Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays, said that in the last year, the number of his new clients has increased 60 or 70 percent. Most worked on Wall Street.
 For some people, listening to endless stories of layoffs might be depressing. But Dr. Borland is, he says, ''a glass-half-full guy.'' 
 For the times when he is asked if his job is too bleak, he has a ready response: ''I say, well, I worked for 12 years in a hospital. I had to tell people they were dying of cancer. I had to take children away from parents. I had to ship people off to nursing homes. This is a piece of cake, because most of these people will get other jobs.''
 One quirk of outplacement is that often the company that has just let someone go pays for the counseling. At the Ayers Group, for example, the former employers foot the bill.
 That leads to a simple question that people in the business get a lot: Why would a company pay for a form of therapy for people it doesn't even want to have around?
 ''To a certain degree, it really is almost a sense of corporate guilt,'' Mr. Ebert said. ''These are good employees. They have not done anything bad. They are not being fired for cause.'' Moreover, he said, companies want to keep a good reputation among people they may try to hire later. 
 Finally, Dr. Borland said with a wry smile: ''They also do it so they don't get sued. Because people who are looking forward -- and that's what we want them to do -- aren't looking backward.'' 
 Optimism, for counselors and clients alike, is more or less mandatory in the outplacement business. Still, Dr. Borland and Mr. Ebert both said, something about the current recession seems a little nastier, and certainly broader and deeper, than previous downturns. 
 That said, most of the people Dr. Borland counsels do not seem too bad off, unsurprisingly, given the previous income levels of his clients. ''I have not seen anybody yet who has said to me, 'I'm going to have to take a job at McDonald's to put food on the table,' '' he said. ''Most of these people have reasonably decent severance packages.''
 His clients, he said, actually seem less rattled this year than they have on previous Christmases, despite the fact that there are so many more of them. It is a counterintuitive thought, until you remember one of the worst things about being fired: the loneliness. With so many people in trouble, there is a sense of comfort in shared suffering.
 And, of course, pain is relative. 
 ''I do have a single mother who says that if she doesn't get a job, she's going to have to let the nanny go part time,'' he said. But, he added, ''what about if you're the nanny, and you've got a family to support?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); DISMISSALS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); SEVERANCE PAY (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



996 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Boom, Bust, Repeat

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS. 
Daniel Gross, a columnist at Newsweek and Slate, is working on an electronic book about the credit mess.

 BODY:
PANIC
 The Story of Modern Financial Insanity
 Edited by Michael Lewis
 391 pp. W. W. Norton & Company. $27.95
 For the past two decades, Michael Lewis, the most charming and one of the shrewdest guides to America's raucous money culture, has displayed a knack for being at the right place at the right time. He was a young trader on the Salomon Brothers bond desk during the 1987 crash; the experience led to ''Liar's Poker.'' His boss at Salomon, John Meriwether, a decade later became a central figure in the downfall of the hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management. Lewis spent a chunk of the 1990s in Silicon Valley, where he profiled the serial entrepreneur Jim Clark in ''The New New Thing'' and happened on to his next great subject, the Oakland A's (''Moneyball''). Now, just in time for the Great Credit Debacle of 2008, Lewis has curated ''Panic,'' a prose exhibition on the past 20 years of monetary madness. 
 The new book, Lewis writes, is an effort ''to recreate the more recent financial panics, in an attempt to show how financial markets now operate.'' Of course, after reading this lively, frequently fine collection of newspaper articles, magazine features, academic post-mortems and the odd blog entry, you'll find the markets are still something of a mystery. The volatility and gut-wrenching jolts seem to defy any rational expectation. ''The bottom line is, no one knows,'' the economist Franklin Edwards wrote in his introduction to a collection of studies on the crash of 1987. 
 Still, paging through ''Panic'' is like wandering through an eclectic museum that houses old masters (Nobel laureates like Paul Krugman and Joseph Stiglitz), but also folk artists (the satirist Dave Barry), artisans (beat reporters) and figurative painters (magazine writers like Lewis, John Cassidy and Roger Lowenstein). 
 ''Panic'' covers four major episodes: the 1987 United States stock market crash, the 1997-98 emerging-market bust-ups (called ''Foreigners Gone Wild''), the dot-com meltdown and the current housing/credit/stock market collapse. Each is a triptych -- the first panel is a brief essay by Lewis, the second is filled with contemporaneous newspaper or magazine articles that set up the boom, and the third presents sober analysis of why it happened. While being anthologized is usually a badge of honor for writers, some of the articles were plainly chosen for the way in which they typified the dangerous pre-panic zeitgeist, capturing ''the feeling in the air immediately before things went wrong,'' as Lewis puts it. I suspect the authors of the Time article from July 1987 on how individual investors were riding the bull market, and of the January 1996 New York Times article extolling emerging market mutual funds, now regard these works the way my brothers and I regard bell-bottom pants -- signs of youthful indiscretion that are best forgotten. 
 But there are plenty of gems, especially involving the 1987 crash, which now seems quaint. An excerpt from a book by the former Wall Street Journal reporter Tim Metz sheds light on the chaos in the markets then. More broadly, the entries remind us that before CNBC, Yahoo Finance and E*Trade, those not sufficiently with it to possess a hand-held Quotron had to visit brokerage offices to check stock quotes. 
 What else is noteworthy? Paul Krugman's dissection in Fortune of what went wrong in Asia in 1998, a Jeffrey Sachs interview on what went wrong in Russia. The Wall Street Journal's 1998 article on how the stock of the second-tier book retailer Books-A-Million went on a wild rise after the company introduced its new Web site and Katharine Mieszkowski's May 2000 Salon account on dot-coms' blowing millions of dollars on Super Bowl advertisements don't taste as good as Proust's madeleine. But they sure take you back. Mark Gimein's July 2000 Fortune article on AllAdvantage, which paid people 53 cents an hour to surf the Net with a special advertising bar on their screens, is a howler. The headline: ''Meet the Dumbest Dot-Com in the World.'' 
 The most recent episode, which Lewis calls ''The People's Panic,'' is less funny -- it's too close, it roped in many more people, and the costs to the public are likely to be huge. The bailouts are especially galling given the ample warnings, like those sounded by John Cassidy of The New Yorker, who warned in November 2002 that housing would be the next crash. A single entry from the Irvine Housing Blog, which shows how a person in January 2005 bought a $1.157 million house with $270 down, refinanced with a funky teaser-rate mortgage and then proceeded to open up a $491,000 home equity line of credit by 2007, neatly encapsulates the lunacy. 
 Some of the best entries are Lewis's own, including his January 1999 New York Times Magazine article on the failed hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management. The quantitative geniuses who designed this vehicle had a tough time grappling with the fact that their model had failed. ''It is interesting to see how people respond when the assumptions that get them out of bed in the morning are declared ridiculous by the wider world,'' Lewis writes. In each of the episodes, the bottom fell out because a bedrock belief held by many participants -- smart professionals, not the perennially stupid individual investor -- suddenly evaporated. ''Panic'' is to a large degree a chronicle of the capacity of highly paid professionals for self-delusion. 
 This volume could just as easily have been titled ''Complacency.'' As Lewis shows, there's something distinctly American in our propensity to blow bubbles until they pop, spend a few months licking our wounds and then hit replay. ''Yuppies' Last Rites Readied,'' declared the headline on a New York Times article of Oct. 21, 1987, which documented how the stock market crash was causing materialist, money-soaked urban dwellers to reduce conspicuous consumption and focus more on human relationships. Of course, that moral awakening lasted only as long as the downturn. And the same business publications that do such a great job of dissecting the bubbles once they've popped are the same ones that help promote and sustain the next one. What drives this? It's not simply greed, or stupidity, but a kind of learned naivete. We convince ourselves, over and over again, that nothing can go wrong, and that even if it does the smart ones among us will be insulated from any ill effects. Despite Suze Orman's pleas, as financial beings we lack self-awareness and irony. In October 2000, Jerry Useem of Fortune called prominent players and asked what they had learned from the dot-com bust. James Cramer, hedge fund manager, media personality and founder of TheStreet.com, declared the Internet over and spoke of spending his time coaching soccer. ''I'm done with the material stuff.'' Riiight. 
 In these times, $27.95 may seem a steep price to pay for a collection of articles, many of which can be found online. But there are good reasons to splurge. The book's profits are going to charity. And as of mid-December, used copies were trading hands on the secondary market (Amazon) for $13. In other words, after a few weeks of ownership, this book still retains about half its value. Which is more than can be said for Citigroup stock. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JULIA HASTING) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (89%); WRITERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); AWARDS & PRIZES (67%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (65%); NOBEL PRIZES (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (55%)

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: OAKLAND A'S (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (71%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: Panic (Book)>; Panic (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



997 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: A Ford Tops 40 M.P.G.

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
OFFICIAL fuel-economy ratings from the Environmental Protection Agency are in for the 2010 Ford Fusion Hybrid, and Ford says it is ''America's most fuel-efficient midsize car with a certified 41 m.p.g. rating in the city and 36 m.p.g. on the highway.'' 
 Ford had offered the Fusion Hybrid to journalists earlier this month in Southern California for fuel-economy runs of their own. Ford said at the time that the certification process by the E.P.A. was incomplete, but that the company expected the vehicle to achieve ''at least 39 m.p.g.'' Many of the journalists who tested the vehicles actually achieved much better fuel economy than that. I hit the high 40s in my short time driving the car.
 A system of gauges and fuel-usage meters helps coach the driver on how to increase and optimize fuel economy.
 Meanwhile, Ford crowed about the Fusion Hybrid's unexpectedly strong rating.
 ''The Ford team set the bar high -- to develop America's most fuel-efficient midsize sedan -- and that's what they delivered,'' Derrick Kuzak, vice president for global product development, said in a news release.
 Ford emphasized that the Fusion Hybrid's E.P.A. rating tops its main competitor, the Toyota Camry Hybrid, by ''8 m.p.g. in the city and 2 m.p.g. on the highway.'' The Fusion's city rating is also 1 m.p.g. better than the Honda Civic Hybrid's. The Fusion also crushes anything from General Motors and Chrysler . 
 Prices have not been announced, but journalists were told at the test drives to expect something in the mid-$20,000 range. In addition to the Fusion Hybrid, a similar Mercury Milan Hybrid will be offered. Each vehicle is programmed to allow its electric motors and nickel-metal-hydride battery packs to propel them up to 47 miles an hour without the aid of the 2.4-liter 4-cylinder gasoline engine. Engineers said the vehicles could travel up to a mile in all-electric mode; the gasoline engine will kick in, regardless of speed, when the charge level goes below an acceptable level.
 It will be interesting to see if those who have clamored for more fuel-efficient vehicles from American automakers -- and less reliance on foreign oil -- will support these Ford hybrids by actually buying one when the cars go on sale in early 2009.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GAS MISER: Ford Fusion Hybrid 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); SEDANS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (66%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



998 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: MORE THAN 225 DIE IN GAZA AS ISRAEL STRIKES AT HAMAS

BYLINE: By TAGHREED EL-KHODARY and ETHAN BRONNER; Taghreed El-Khodary reported from Gaza, and Ethan Bronner from Jerusalem. Isabel Kershner contributed reporting from Netivot, Israel, and Robert Pear from Crawford, Tex.

DATELINE: GAZA 

 BODY:
Waves of Israeli airstrikes destroyed Hamas security facilities in Gaza on Saturday in a crushing response to the group's rocket fire, killing more than 225 -- the highest one-day toll in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in decades.
 Israeli military officials said the airstrikes, which went on into the night, were the start of what could be days or even months of an effort to force Hamas to end its rocket barrages into southern Israel. The operation could include ground forces, a senior Israeli security official said. 
 Palestinian officials said that most of the dead were security officers for Hamas, including two senior commanders, and that at least 600 people had been wounded in the attacks. 
 After the initial airstrikes, dozens of rockets were fired into southern Israel, where an emergency was declared. Thousands of Israelis hurried into bomb shelters amid the hail of rockets, including some longer-range models that reached farther north than ever before. One man was killed in the town of Netivot, the first death from rocket fire since it intensified a week ago, and four were wounded. 
 A number of governments and international officials, including leaders of Russia, Egypt, the European Union and the United Nations, condemned Israel's use of force and also called on Hamas to end the rocket fire. But in strong terms, the Bush administration blamed Hamas for the violence and demanded that it stop firing rockets. 
 A military operation had been forecast and demanded by Israeli officials for weeks, ever since a rocky cease-fire between Israel and Hamas fully collapsed a week ago, leading again to rocket attacks in large numbers against Israel and isolated Israeli operations here. 
 Still, there was a shocking quality to Saturday's attacks, which began in broad daylight as police cadets were graduating, women were shopping at the outdoor market, and children were emerging from school. 
 The center of Gaza City was a scene of chaotic horror, with rubble everywhere, sirens wailing, and women shrieking as dozens of mutilated bodies were laid out on the pavement and in the lobby of Shifa Hospital so that family members could identify them. The dead included civilians, including several construction workers and at least two children in school uniforms.
 By afternoon, shops were shuttered, funerals began and mourning tents were visible on nearly every major street of this densely populated city. 
 The leader of the Hamas government in Gaza, Ismail Haniya, said in a statement that ''Palestine has never witnessed an uglier massacre.'' Later, in a televised speech, he vowed to fight Israel. ''We say in all confidence that even if we are hung on the gallows or they make our blood flow in the streets or they tear our bodies apart, we will bow only before God and we will not abandon Palestine,'' he said.
 In Damascus, Syria, Hamas's supreme leader, Khaled Meshal, said in an interview with Al Jazeera television that he was calling for a new Palestinian intifada against Israel, including the resumption of suicide attacks within Israel for the first time since 2005. Hamas, he said, had accepted ''all the peaceful options, but without results.''
 Ehud Barak, the Israeli defense minister and chairman of the Labor Party, said the military operation in Gaza would expand and deepen as necessary, adding, ''There is a time for calm and a time for fighting, and this is the time for fighting.'' 
 ''We wanted to attack military targets while the terrorists were inside the facilities and before Hamas was able to get its rockets out that were stored in some of the targets,'' said a top Israeli security official, briefing a group of reporters by telephone on condition of anonymity.
 ''Right now, we have to hit Hamas hard to stop the launching,'' he added. ''I don't see any other way for Hamas to change its behavior. Hamas is not just a terrorist organization. It actually rules Gaza and is well supported by Iran with some of its leadership in Syria.'' 
 Hamas had in recent weeks let it be known that it doubted Israel would engage in a major military undertaking because of its coming elections. But in some ways the elections have made it impossible for officials like Mr. Barak not to react, because the public has grown anxious and angry over the rocket fire, which while causing no recent deaths and few injuries is deeply disturbing for those living near Gaza. 
 Israeli officials said that anyone linked to the Hamas security structure or government was fair game because Hamas was a terrorist group that sought Israel's destruction. But with work here increasingly scarce because of an international embargo on Hamas, young men are tempted by the steady work of the police force without necessarily fully accepting the Hamas ideology. One of the biggest tolls on Saturday was at a police cadet graduation ceremony in which 15 people were killed.
 Spokesmen for Hamas officials, who have mostly gone underground, called on militants to seek revenge and fight to the last drop of blood. Several compared what was happening to the 2006 war between Israel and the Lebanese militia Hezbollah, when Israel reacted to the capture and killing of soldiers along its northern border with air raids, followed by a ground attack. Hezbollah is widely viewed as having withstood those assaults and emerged much stronger politically.
 The Arab League initially called an emergency meeting for Sunday in Cairo with all the foreign ministers from the member states, but later postponed it to Wednesday to give ministers time to respond.
 Governments that dislike Hamas, like Egypt's, Jordan's and the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank, are in a delicate position. They blame Hamas for having taken over Gaza by force 18 months ago in the aftermath of its election victory in the Palestinian Parliament, and they oppose its rocket fire on Israeli towns and communities. 
 But the sight of scores of Palestinians killed by Israeli warplanes outraged their citizens, and anti-Israel demonstrations broke out across the region. 
 President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority angrily condemned the Israeli airstrikes. Egypt, worried about possible efforts by Palestinians to enter the country, has set up machine guns along the Gaza border. But on Saturday it temporarily opened the Rafah border crossing in order to allow the wounded to be brought to Egyptian hospitals. 
 In the West Bank and in some Arab parts of Jerusalem and Israel, Palestinians threw stones, causing some injuries. 
 Hamas is officially committed to Israel's destruction, and after it took over Gaza in 2007, it said it would not recognize Israel, honor previous Palestinian Authority commitments to it or end its violence against Israelis. 
 Israel, backed by the United States, Europe, Egypt and the Palestinian Authority, has sought to isolate Hamas by squeezing Gaza economically, a policy that human rights groups condemn as collective punishment. Israel and Egypt, which control routes into and out of Gaza, have blocked nearly all but humanitarian aid from going in. 
 The result has been the near death of the Gazan economy. While enough food has gone in to avoid starvation, the level of suffering is very high and getting worse each week, especially in recent weeks as Israel closed the routes entirely for about 10 days in reaction to daily rocket fire. 
 Opening the routes to commerce was Hamas's main goal in its cease-fire with Israel, just as ending the rocket fire was Israel's central aim.But while rocket fire did go down drastically in the fall to 15 to 20 a month from hundreds a month, Israel said it would not permit trade to begin again because the rocket fire had not completely stopped and because Hamas continued to smuggle weapons from Egypt through desert tunnels. Hamas said this was a violation of the agreement, a sign of Israel's real intentions and cause for further rocket fire. On Wednesday, some 70 rockets hit Israel over 24 hours, in a distinct increase in intensity.
 The United Nations Security Council met late Saturday night to discuss the situation. 
 Envoys of the 15-nation council were discussing what diplomats said was a Russian-drafted statement calling for a halt to Israeli military operations in Gaza as well as a halt to rocket attacks upon Israel, Reuters reported.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An injured Palestinian was helped from the rubble after an Israeli airstrike hit Rafah in the Gaza Strip on Saturday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HATEM OMAR/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A1)
Palestinians in Gaza City on Saturday gathered around the bodies of people killed by Israeli airstrikes, launched in response to recent Hamas rocket attacks.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MAHMUD HAMS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 A relative of a victim wept outside a hospital in Gaza City after the Israeli airstrikes, which hit Hamas security facilities.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ABID KATIB/GETTY IMAGES)(A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); HAMAS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (88%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); CITY LIFE (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%); POPULATION DENSITY (62%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (99%); EGYPT (79%); SYRIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



999 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Bargain Hunting, and Feeling Sheepish About It

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
Book publishers and booksellers are full of foreboding -- even more than usual for an industry that's been anticipating its demise since the advent of television. The holiday season that just ended is likely to have been one of the worst in decades. Publishers have been cutting back and laying off. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt announced that it wouldn't be acquiring any new manuscripts, a move akin to a butcher shop proclaiming it had stopped ordering fresh meat. 
 Bookstores, both new and secondhand, are faltering as well. Olsson's, the leading independent chain in Washington, went bankrupt and shut down in September. Robin's, which says it is the oldest bookstore in Philadelphia, will close next month. The once-mighty Borders chain is on the rocks. Powell's, the huge store in Portland, Ore., said sales were so weak it was encouraging its staff to take unpaid sabbaticals. 
 Don't blame this carnage on the recession or any of the usual suspects, including increased competition for the reader's time or diminished attention spans. What's undermining the book industry is not the absence of casual readers but the changing habits of devoted readers. 
 In other words, it's all the fault of people like myself, who increasingly use the Internet both to buy books and later, after their value to us is gone, sell them. This is not about Amazon peddling new books at discounted prices, which has been a factor in the book business for a decade, but about the rise of a worldwide network of amateurs who sell books from their homes or, if they're lazy like me, in partnership with an Internet dealer who does all the work for a chunk of the proceeds. 
 They get their books from friends, yard sales, recycling centers, their own shelves. castoffs (I just bought a book from a guy whose online handle was Clif Is Emptying His Closet). Some list them for as little as a penny, although most aim for at least a buck. This growing market is achieving an aggregate mass that is starting to prove problematic for publishers, new bookstores and secondhand bookstores. 
 For readers and collectors, these resellers, as they are called, offer a great service. Lost in the hand-wringing over the state of the book industry is the fact that this is a golden age for those in love with old-fashioned printed volumes: more books are available for less effort and less money than ever before. A book search engine like ViaLibri.net can knit together 20,000 booksellers around the world offering tens of millions of nearly new, used or rare books.
 One consequence has been to change the calculations involved in buying a book. Given the price, do I really want to read this? Now it's become both an economic and a moral issue? How much do I want to pay, and where do I want that money to go? To my local community via a bookstore? To the publisher? To the author? 
 In theory, I want to support all of these fine folks. In practice, I decide to save a buck. 
 Here's one example of how I casually wreak destruction. I was reading ''Sylvia,'' an account by the late short-story master Leonard Michaels of his unstable first wife. Looking for material about Mr. Michaels, I saw his friend Wendy Lesser had written a long essay about him in a book published last year by Pantheon. I could buy a new paperback edition of that book, ''Room for Doubt,'' for $13.95 plus tax in a bookstore. But there were dozens of copies from resellers available online for as little as one cent, plus shipping. 
 A penny felt a little chintzy, even for me, so I bought a hardcover copy for 25 cents from someone who called herself Heather Blue, plus a few bucks for shipping. Neither my local bookstore nor Pantheon -- whose parent, Random House, announced this month it would cut costs by reducing five divisions to three -- nor the author got a share. The book looked good as new. 
 Ms. Lesser is the publisher of The Threepenny Review, a literary journal. She lives in Berkeley, Calif., where, as it happens, there is no longer a large general interest bookstore. Cody's, in its prime one of the country's great stores, closed its last outlet in June. The Barnes & Noble store there also recently closed. 
 Andy Ross, the former owner of Cody's, told me that buying books online ''was not morally dubious, but it is tragic. It has a lot of unintended consequences for communities.''
 Mr. Ross said he realized that Cody's was doomed when he noticed that in the last year he hadn't sold a single copy of that old-reliable for undergraduates, Kant's ''Critique of Pure Reason.'' Students presumably were buying it online. Sales of classics and other backlist titles used to be the financial engine of publishers and bookstores as well, allowing them to take chances on new authors. Clearly that model is breaking. Simon & Schuster, which laid off staffers this month, cited backlist sales as a particularly troubled area. 
 Michael Barnard, who owns Rakestraw Books in Danville, Calif., not far from Berkeley, was more critical of me. He said that I was taking Ms. Lesser's work while depriving her of an income, and that I would regret my selfish actions when all the physical stores were gone. 
 Ms. Lesser's editor, Dan Frank, said that the rise of resellers like Heather Blue meant that there was no longer a set price for a book at any one time. If you want it during those first few weeks when it is new, you will pay a premium. If you can wait, it might be only a pittance. ''These cracks and fractures will only grow bigger,'' he said. 
 Ms. Lesser herself was philosophical. ''I am a pragmatist, not a thin-skinned, delicate little writer who thinks everything needs to be what it is in heaven,'' she said. Still, she sounded a little taken aback at the going rate for her books. ''Twenty-five cents? That's all it was?'' 
 At least this way, the writer said, she gained a reader if not an income. If I had had to search for the book in a store, maybe I would never have found it.
 ''With the Internet, nothing is ever lost,'' Ms. Lesser said. ''That's the good news, and that's the bad news.'' 
 And what of the woman who sold me the book? She told me via e-mail that her real name was Heather Mash and that she worked as a domestic violence case manager in a women's shelter not too far from Berkeley. She didn't set out to subvert the publishing and bookselling world, she said. Like most of us who sell online, Ms. Mash began because she had too many books and wanted to raise money to buy more. ''I would rather sell a book for a penny and let someone enjoy it than keep it collecting dust,'' she said. 
 No industry undermined by its greatest partisans will thrive long. CD sales plunged after music could be downloaded. Newspapers are hurting even as their readership is mushrooming online. As the Heather Mashes proliferate, traditional bookstores will continue to fade.
 Secondhand outlets that don't sell online are already an anachronism. Even the novelist Larry McMurtry, whose enormous secondhand shop in Archer City, Tex., was probably the biggest holdout against the Internet, has surrendered.
 The first book he sold online was a signed copy of ''84, Charing Cross Road,'' the classic account of a woman in postwar New York who bought her books from a London shop she never saw. Helene Hanff's slim volume used to be cherished for its depiction of a vanished era. Now it seems simply ahead of its time.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RODRIGO CORRAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (91%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (89%); LAYOFFS (77%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (77%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (75%); MEAT STORES (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); INTERNET & WWW (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (56%) OREGON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



1000 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times: December 28, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 DOGFIGHTS MAKE RETURN
 To Afghan Cities
 The Taliban considered the practice un-Islamic and banned it. But since the Taliban were ousted in 2001, dogfighting has regained its popularity in Afghanistan, with weekly tournaments on dusty lots in the country's major cities. Kabul hosts two every Friday, the day of prayer. PAGE 6
 BAGDAD BOMBING KILLS 24
 A car bomb killed at least 24 people, many of them Shiite pilgrims, and wounded 46 others when it exploded Saturday on a busy road in Baghdad that leads to the revered shrine of Kadhimiya, according to the Ministry of Interior. That bombing, along with several others in recent weeks, was a stark reminder that even as violence has fallen sharply, insurgents still have the power to carry out deadly strikes in the heart of the capital. PAGE 6 
 KILLING SWELLS FEARS
 The Russian nationalist group that claimed credit for the killing and beheading this month of Salohiddin Azizov of Tajikstan called him part of a ''non-Russian occupation.'' The killing was a grim reminder of the dangers faced by the millions of migrants from the former Soviet Union who work in Russia, many of whom poured into Russian cities during an oil boom. PAGE 12
 NATIONAL
 A HOLDOUT'S LEGACY
 Is More Than Her House
 There are various stories about Edith Macefield, whose refusal of a $1 million offer for her tiny house in Seattle's old fishing village of Ballard stymied developers. Many of them she told herself. Among those she wrote and had published was ''Where Yesterday Began,'' and it starts, ''This story is for all those who have ever loved -- truly, deeply, irrevocably -- and in the thrust of disaster.'' She may be the only one who ever read it. PAGE 14
 THE HARD ROAD
 The final section of Interstate 99 in Central Pennsylvania seemingly had something for everyone to dislike: Environmentalists were upset with its impact; watchdog groups thought it cost too much; even its name offended highway purists. But the man credited with making it happen says he has no regrets. PAGE 14
 EXPANDING THE GUEST LIST
 Tefft Middle School in Streamwood, Ill., has greatly increased participation in its annual parent-teacher conferences by using an approach that is working in other school districts around the country. Officials now allow students to not only attend the meetings, but also to lead them. After all, the students are the ones with the most at stake in the proceedings. PAGE 23
 GMAC QUIET ON STATUS
 The financing arm of General Motorswould not say whether it had cleared a final hurdle to become a bank holding company and gain access to billions in federal bailout money. PAGE 19
 NEW YORKBOOK QUESTIONS VERDICT
 A new book about the 1988 killings of a Long Island couple casts new doubts about the lead detective in the case and quotes him disputing the prosecution's theory of the killings. The couple's son, who spent 17 years in prison for the crimes before his conviction was overturned last year, says the book documents his innocence and the guilt of others. PAGE 27
 CAUGHT IN THE PINCH
 The holiday season seems to have provided little relief for the six small businesses that The New York Times began tracking in October to see how they were handling the recession. Layoffs, shorter hours and struggles to pay bills were common refrains in recent interviews. But there was some hope for the new year. PAGE 26
 A LEGACY OF ADVANCEMENT
 Chief Judge Judith S. Kaye of the State Court of Appeals has reached the mandatory retirement age and is stepping down. She will leave a legacy of advancement for women in the judiciary, broadened powers for the Constitution and support for gay rights. But one area where she was less successful was in persuading legislators to support her goals for the legal system. PAGE 25
 OBITUARIES
 DOROTHY SARNOFF, 94
 An opera singer and Broadway star, she had a much bigger second career as one of the first, and most influential, image consultants. PAGE 29
 SPORTS
 ON OPPOSITE SIDELINES,
 But With Similarities
 They both grew up in Connecticut rooting for the New York Giants. And on Sunday, they face each other in the last game of the regular season: Tony Sparano of the Dolphins and Eric Mangini of the Jets need a victory to make it to the playoffs. PAGE 1
 DAD IS HUBBY'S BOSS
 It is not that unusual a relationship, perhaps, in the outside world: The wife's father is the husband's boss. But this is the N.F.L. The wife is Kate Snee; the father is Tom Coughlin, the Giants' coach; and the husband is Chris Snee, the Giants' guard. There was trepidation in the beginning about that father-husband link. But now, everything looks pretty good. PAGE 1
 THE PRICE OF SUCCESS
 It is a measure of his success as an agent that on the opening day of the N.B.A. season, Lonnie Cooper represented 9 of the league's 30 head coaches. The downside is that of the six coaches fired in a 24-day stretch from late November to mid-December, Cooper represented all six. Not to worry, he says. He expects that all will be working again. PAGE 1
 SPORTS SWINGS
 Looking back on the year in sports, Dave Anderson finds the Dickens line about the best of times and the worst of times applicable. For starters, take the Giants and their Super Bowl victory, fueled in part by the hands of Plaxico Burress. Then fast forward to Burress with a self-inflicted bullet hole in his thigh. Sports of the Times. PAGE 6
 WEEK IN REVIEW
 THE COST OF MONEY
 If borrowing and spending beyond ordinary limits is what got Americans into economic trouble, how is it that many economists have concluded that the best cure is hair of the dog? Apparently, sobering up is a concern for some other day. PAGE 1
 IMPERFECT MAGIC
 The decision by Polaroid to stop making its instant film may be understandable in light of the digital competition -- some of which now even print instant pictures. But one thing that will inevitably be missing from such modern marvels is the mistake that turn out to be a masterpiece. PAGE 1
 Bargain Books and Guilt 2
 Editorial
 RECRUITING THE BEST
 We believe it is necessary to expand the Army by 65,000 soldiers to help rebuild the world's best ground force after an extraordinary period of overuse. That expansion could magnify problems recruiters are already facing far into the future if steps are not taken quickly to address them. Week in review, page 7
 BLAGOJEVICH'S BOMBAST
 The refusal of Gov. Rod Blagojevich of Illinois to step aside leaves the Senate seat of Barack Obama unfilled indefinitely and the state government adrift, lashed to Mr. Blagojevich's fate in criminal court. PAGE 7
 DEADLY WAVE, LUCKY STAR
 A hundred years ago, the grandfather of the Op-Ed contributor John Bemelmans Marciano lost everything and everyone in Europe's worst recorded natural disaster. After that, nothing would seem too unbearable to survive. Week in review, page 7
 FRANK RICH
 Barack Obama's purpose-driven inaugural invitation was a reminder of his occasional tendency toward Bush-like hubris. PAGE 8
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 If he has the political will, Barack Obama can do more to end the slaughter in Darfur. Week in review, page 10 
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 How many times do we have to see the play about the effects of gas prices going up and down before we admit that it always ends the same way -- badly? Week in review, page 8 
 TIMOTHY EGAN
 In the holiday interregnum, the winter air is thick with excuses at the White House no-regret fest. Week in review, page 8

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); TERRORISM (76%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); BAILOUTS (66%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (60%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (57%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008

 
